[Vol23 | July 1936 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: The Peace That Nolan]
The Peace That Passeth Understanding By Mary Nolan were bright with angry tears, as her sharp butcher knife made small white cubes of a pile of pork fat. She pushed the filled pan across the table to David, her husband, who was patiently and methodically putting the cubes one by one into a food-chopper, and carefully placing the ground grease into a huge kettle for rendering. The smell of the frying grease, and the mess of it, had irritated Matilda, and now they were going around in that age old argument; and neither knew just what had brought it up this time. "But, David, I don't want the children to be contented here?to grow up, marry someone here and settle down in this place. I can't stand it. That's just what I did, and sometimes I feel like I was hemmed in, and smothered.
Ever since I can remember, I have looked forward for the day when I could go away from here.
Since the children are growing up, it's worse, and these last few years, with the shortage of water and poor prices, it seems farther away than ever. I want them to go away where they can have advantages that they cannot get here?meet new people, take music lessons, and dancing and know something besides soil and cows, wheat-smut and washing dishes and scrubbing floors. I want them to have all the things I've longed for so and missed. I want them to have culture!' Deliberately, David unfastened the chopper, scraped the knife clean, emptied the remaining MATILDA NELSON'S eyes grease into the kettle, and then turned. "Mattie," he said quietly, "I, too, have longed for many things that I have missed in my life. It has been a source of sorrow to me always that my education so far as schools are concerned, is so meager. But I can't turn the clock back and live it over, so I try not to let the past spoil the present for me. "There are a great many other things to real culture besides dancing gracefully and being able to play the piano with enameled finger tips. I know people who can do neither, and they know cows, soil and all these things that seem disagreeable to you.
Real culture is 'that which gives us sympathy with every form of human life.' " "But the worthwhile people for your children to meet and marry, David!" "In every community, village or metropolis ? wherever you go ? you'll find good and not so good? some of each kind.
People are pretty much the same, the world over? always have been and always will be, Mattie. Do you remember how happy Mr. And Mrs.
Durham were to get back here, after they had spent a couple of years in the city? You know the sorrow that came to them, while they were there, when their two oldest married 'city-folks.' George and his wife are divorced, and one look at Mary, when she was here visiting, convinced me that her heart is still here with the farmer boy she jilted. "Mrs.
Durham told me herself, that in the church organizations here, 444 they have more opportunity of activity because in the large wards there are so many more people than positions for them. She said she had been asked to do much more in the short time she has been home than in all the while she was away. "All of these things help us toward culture, Mattie. The lessons and activities in the various organizations are outlined with that thought in mind." He washed his hands, dried them carefully, and hung the towel smoothly across the bar. "When I was straightening those boxes in the basement, I came across an old Era with an article in it I'd like you to read. I have forgotten the author, but he gave five rules for happiness, and one gave this thought?'That wherever you are, believe that that is the best place in the world for you to be that day.' I read: it years ago and it has helped me mightily.
Sometimes when I've had a discouraging day, this thought slips into my mind. At chore time, when I see all the animals eating, and know that we've plenty to eat ourselves, plenty to keep us warm, and a little to share with people less fortunate than we are?all of us well and strong, mentally and physically, gratitude for these things fills my heart. And there is that peace that comes to me that 'passeth understanding,' and all those times the only thing I wish for is that it could come to you, too, Mattie." "Oh, David, you make me tired, you always quote things to me. The only peace I'll ever have is when I leave this hateful place and these hateful people! You've promised that I can take the children away to school next year and I expect you to keep it!" "There are times when you frighten me, Mattie," said David sternly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but quietly still. "Sometimes I think folks need real trials to come to them.
They need the bitter to appreciate the sweet.
This straining at the leash is making an old woman of you, Mattie; you are making the children unhappy too.
Just yesterday Marie came to me in distress, because you had told her she would have to go away next year; her heart is set on being graduated with the children she has been with ever since she began school.
Such things may not seem much to you but they are big things to them."
David put on his hat, and stood in the doorway. "I'm through arguing with you, but I'm going to tell you something. I'll bet that you can pick out any five families in this village that have great trials or sorrows?you can choose them yourself?and visit them and you'll find all of them are happier and more grateful for blessings than you are. And I'll dare you to do it!" And David went out, closing the door a little hard for David. He had pierced the one soft spot in Matilda's armor. No one could ever say she had not taken a dare? "Well today's as good a day as any, and I've got to take the cream to the station besides?and I'm not one who cannot say I'm wrong if I am convinced that I am." WO o'clock saw Matilda leaving an immaculate kitchen?the bright cans of lard stood in a row on the drain board to cool. Her plans were made. She would leave the cream at the station, make her visits, and call for the cream check and buy the groceries on her way home. She had taken David at his word and decided to visit the families she considered had the greatest trials. Four, she had in mind and would decide on the fifth later.
First was
THE PEACE THAT PASSETH UNDERSTANDING 445
Aunt Jane Alden, who had a son in the State Mental Hospital. Next, Lucy Davis, who had suffered ill health and was losing her hearing, and whose husband was "dumb,"? not the kind who was without speech, but one who had too much. Then, Ester Perry who was blind, and lonely. Her aged husband was her only companion. And fourth Mandie Bowen, who was like the old woman in the shoe for children, and whose cupboard was often as bare as Old Mother Hubbard's. The car was an old model, but David kept it up well, and in a short time she was at the cream station. "I?ll get the check on my way home, Bob," she told the attendant, and feeling confident drove the remaining mile to Aunt Jane Alden's home. "Well if it isn't Mattie Nelson, of all people," said Aunt Jane, a sweet faced little woman, in a cheery voice upon opening the door. "(Come in. I'm so glad to see you. We've just finished putting the sausage away, and I haven't changed my apron yet." As her husband picked up a box of glass fruit jars filled with juicy brown sausage cakes she continued. "Put those pint jars handy to the front, Tom."
Then turning to Matilda, she said, "I like to have them handy to slip into the little boxes of fruit and cookies and so on that I send to folks who have sickness or trouble," she added brightly. '"Doesn't it give you joy to do things like that?" As she talked she went to a dresser drawer in the next room and came back with a smoothly ironed apron and a letter. "Here's a letter from Fred I'd like you to read, Mattie. It made us very happy. He thinks he may be able to come home for Christmas. Of course he has hoped the same for the last two years and then would get bad again, so Pa and I hardly hope for it, but we are so glad that there are times he can write to us like this. So we don't feel to complain, although our hearts ache; we feel that we must go on just the best we can in spite of our sorrow and do our best to make the world a glad place to be. Don't you think so, too, Mattie?" It bothered Mattie to have to answer these pointed questions. "T guess you are right, Aunt Jane," said Matilda soberly, as she mentally said, "Score one for David." "I must go now, I just thought I'd run up and see how you were while they weighed my cream. I've two or three other calls to make." "Well, thanks for coming, Mattie. It is nice to see you. Let me put these apples in a bag for the children's lunch.
Maybe you have some that are better, but I always like to give things to kiddies and I think they like to be remembered too." S Matilda put the apples in the car she said to herself, "TI wonder why I've never thought of that before, and just today I called her hateful. I don't know what Lucy will think when she sees me. I haven't been to see her for so long." At her knock Alex Davis opened the door. "Come in, Matilda. I guess you want to see Lucy, she's in the other room. Go right in." "Yes, I do want to see Lucy, how is she and how are you and the children?" "Oh, fine. I'm just cookin' some potatoes for yeast," as Matilda glanced toward a bubbling kettle on the stove. "Gracie makes the yeast when she gets home from school and mixes bread in the morning. Then I bake it if it gets too light before she gets home. I don't make such 446 pretty loaves as Gracie, but I fix it in some fashion." By this. Time Matilda was in the bedroom and Lucy, with a smile brightening her face was shaking her hand.
From the door, Alec was still talking. "You'll have to lean over and holler pretty loud. She can't hardly hear anything.
Seems like she's getting a little better though." "T came to see how you are feeling, Lucy, and if I could do something for you," shouted Matilda.
That last she hadn't meant to say at all. She didn't know how she had let it slip out. But out it was; and she felt strangely better for it.
Lucy answered with a bright smile. "There isn't anything at all we need, Mattie.
Alec and the children do very well, with the work and 'm getting strong rapidly. I'll be up in a week or so all the better for my rest in bed.
Alec and I can't talk very much, but it's a comfort to have him fussing around the house where I can call him if I need anything. He's patient with the children too. The only thing you could do is come and see me oftener. I'd like that." As she went through the kitchen a little later Alec was preparing apples to bake for the children's suppers. She asked, "Alec, is there anything you'd like me to do for your" "Why, no, Mattie, not as long as we can get-along by ourselves. It makes us feel better to be independent, and it's a good lesson to teach the children. I won't let them suffer at all; but I want them to learn to do for themselves.
Thanks just the same, Mattie." "T shall never call Alec Davis 'dumb' again. I guess I've never understood him before," thought Matilda as she closed the gate. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Well, David, score two for your side." HE knocked at the front door of Ester Perry's little cottage, and then walked past the lilac hedge around to the back.
Ester was coming from the wood pile, with her apron full of kindlings, her right hand sliding along a smooth wire, which led from the wood pile post to the kitchen door.
Lest she frighten her, Matilda called, "Hello, Mrs. Perry, how are you?" Mrs.
