RACHEL PORTER HONORED.
	The eighty-first birthday of Sister Rachel
Porter was held at the home of her daugh-
ter, Sister Alice Young, on the 11th of May.
She was born in 1830 in the State of New
York, and was the first president of the
Relief Society of Preston, Idaho. Many of
her old friends came to pay their respects to
her; of her old officers present, there were
L. B. Benson, Anna Larson, counselors;
Lucy Margetts, secretary. Sister Nellie
Parkinson coming from Hyrum, and there
were twenty sisters to show their love in
words of cheer, music and song, nice
refreshments were served. Sister Porter’s
hair is as black as it was twenty-nine years
ago; she is meek and humble as ever, and
is still praising her Heavenly Father. There
were five of the present Stake Board there,
to do honor to this veteran Saint.
	The parents of Sister Rachel Porter were
not in the Church, their names were Sally
M. Wilcott and Samuel Murray. Her maid-
en name was Rachel Ann Murray was born
in the town of Oceana, State of New York.
The first Relief Society in 1879 was or-
ganized in Preston, under direction of Bish-
op Nathan Porter, who was the first Bish-
op, and her husband; it then was called
the Worm Creek Branch. These are the
first officers: Rachel Porter, president;
Serena Jensen, first counselor; Annie Lund-
green, second counselor; Mary Heller, sec-
retary; Jennie Wilcott, treasurer. Sister
Porter presided for fourteen years.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN AND LABOR.
	GIVE US LABOR OR WE DIE!
	Such is the gist of the argument pre-
sented in Olive Schreiner’s book, “Women
and Labor,” just published by Frederick A.
Stokes Company, New York—a picture of
the past and present conditions of women
which, for eloquence, even passion, united
with pure scientific reasoning, is to other lit-
erature on the subject what this author’s
memorable novel, “The Story of an African
Farm,” was to the best fiction of its day.
	The excerpts from Miss Schreiner’s book
printed on this page, forcible as they are,
give only a hint of the power and authority
of the whole book. And yet this volume—
as Miss Schreiner tells in her introduction,
is hardly more than a synopsis of the bulky
manuscript volumes, representing her seri-
ous life-work, which were destroyed by van-
dals of the Boer War of which her South
African home was a storm center. Was ever
a thoughtful volume prepared under greater
disadvantages than she here describes?
	“I was living in a little house on the out-
skirts of the village, in a single room, with
a stretcher and two packing cases as furni-
ture, and with only my little dog for com-
pany. Thirty-six armed African natives
were set to guard night and day at the doors
and windows of the house; and I was only
allowed to go out during certain hours in
the middle of the day to fetch water from
the fountain in the middle of the village, or
to buy what I needed. I was allowed to re-
ceive no newspapers or magazines. * * *
	‘I was neither allowed to light a candle
nor strike a match. When a conflict was
fought near by, the dying and wounded

[Column 2]
were brought in; three men belonging to
our little village were led out to execution;
death sentences were read in our little mar-
ket-place; our prison was filled with our
fellow countrymen, and we did not know
from hour to hour what the next would
bring to us.
	“Under these conditions I felt it necessary
I should resolutely force my thought at
times from the horror of the world around
me, to dwell on some abstract question and
it was under these circumstances that this
little book was written.”
	The “little book,” however, is a volume of
three hundred pages—every one of which
deserves the closest attention of the reader.
No attempt is made to connect the passages
here given—each completes its own power-
ful argument.
	In that clamor which has arisen in the
modern world, where now this, and then
that, is demanded for and by large bodies of
modern women, he who listens carefully
may detect as a keynote, beneath all the
clamor, a demand which may be embodied
in such a cry as this:
	“Give us labor and the training which fits
for labor. We demand this, not for our-
selves alone, but for the race.”
	If this demand be logically expanded, it
will take such form as this: Give us labor!
for countless ages, for thousands, millions
it may be, we have labored. When first
man wandered, the naked, newly erected
savage, and hunted and fought, we wan-
dered with him: each step of his was ours.
Within our bodies we bore the race, on our
shoulders we carried it; we sought the
roots and plants for its food; and, when
man’s barbed arrow or hook brought the
game, our hands dressed it. Side by side,
the savage man and the savage woman, we
wandered free together and labored free to-
gether. And we were contented!
	Then a change came.
	We ceased from our wanderings, and,
camping upon one spot of earth, again the
labors of life were divided between us.
While man went forth to hunt, or to battle
with the foe who would have dispossessed
us of all, we labored on the land. We hoed
the earth, we reaped the grain, we shaped
the dwellings, we wove the clothing, we
modeled the earthen vessels and drew the
lines upon them, which were humanity’s
first attempt at domestic art; we studied the
properties and uses of plants, and our old
women were the first physicians of the race,
as often, its first priests and prophets.
	We fed the race at our breast, we bore it
on our shoulders; through us it was shaped,
fed, and clothed. Labor more toilsome and
unending than that of man was ours; yet
did we never cry out that it was too heavy
for us. While savage man lay in the sun-
shine on his skins, resting, that he might be
fitted for war or the chase, or while he
shaped his weapons of death, he ate and
drank that which our hands had provided
for him; and while we knelt over our grind-
stone, or hoed in the fields, with one child
in our womb, perhaps, and one on our back,
toiling till the young body was old before its
time—did we ever cry out that the labor
allotted to us was too hard for us?
	Did we not know that the woman who
threw down her burden was as a man who
cast away his shield in battle—a coward and
a traitor to his race? Man fought—that was
his work; we fed and nurtured the race—
that was ours. We knew that upon our la-


[Column 1]
bors, even as upon man’s, depended the life
and well-being of the people whom we bore.
We endured our toil, as man bore his
wounds, silently; and we were content.
	A thousand years ago, had one gone to
some great dame, questioning her why she
did not go out a-hunting or a,fighting, or
enter the great hall to dispense justice and
confer upon the making of laws, she would
have answered:
	“Am I a fool that you put to me such
questions? Have I not a hundred maidens
to keep at work at spinning-wheels and
needles? With my own hands daily do I
not dispense bread to over a hundred folk?
In the great hall go and see the tapestries
I with my maidens have created by the la-
bors of years, and which we shall labor over
for twenty more, that my children’s children
may see recorded the great deeds of their
forefathers.  In my storeroom are there not
salves and simples, that my own hands have
prepared for the healing of my household
and the sick in the country round? Ill would
it go indeed, if when the folk came home
from war and the chase of wild beasts,
weary or wounded, they found all the wom-
enfolk gone out a-hunting and a-fighting,
and none there to dresstheir wounds, or pre-
pare their meat, or guide and rule the house-
hold!”
			*	*	*
	The commandment to the modern [---]
is now not simply “Thou shalt bear,” but
rather, “Thou shalt not bear in excess of
thy power to rear and train satisfactorily;”
and the woman who should today appear at
the door of a workhouse or the tribunal
of the poor-law guardians followed by her
twelve infants, demanding honorable sus-
tenance for them and herself in return for
the labor she had undergone in producing
them, would meet with but short shrift.
	And the modern man, who on his wed-
ding day should be greeted with the ancient
good wish, that he might become the father
of twenty sons and twenty daughters, would
regard it as a malediction rather than a
blessing. It is certain that the time is now
rapidly approaching when child-bearing will
be regarded rather as a lofty privilege, per-
missible only to those who have shown their
power rightly to train and provide for their
offspring, than a labor which in itself, and
under whatever conditions performed, is
beneficial to society.
			*	*	*
	Our spinning wheels are all broken; in a
thousand huge buildings steam-driven looms
guided by a few hundred thousand hands
(often those of men), produce the clothings
of half the world; and we dare no longer
say, proudly, as of old, that we and we alone
clothe our peoples.
	Our hoes and our grindstones passed
from us long ago, when the plowman and
the miller took our place, but for a time we
kept fast possession of the kneading trough
and the brewing vat. Today, steam often
shapes our bread, and the loaves are set
down at our very door—it may be by a man-
driven motor car! The history of our
household drinks, we know no longer; we
merely see them set before us at our tables.
	Day by day machine-prepared and fac-
tory-produced viands take a larger and larg-
er place in the dietary of rich and poor, till
the working man’s wife places before her
household little that is of her own prepara-
tion; while among the wealthier classes, so
far has domestic change gone that men are

[Column 2]
not infrequently found laboring in our
houses and kitchens, and even standing be-
hind our chairs ready to do all but actually
place the morsels of food between our fem-
inine lips. The army of rosy milkmaids has
passed away forever, to give place to the
cream-separater and the (largely) male and
machinery manipulated butter pat. In every
direction the ancient saw, that it was ex-
clusively the womans’ sphere to prepare
viands of her household, has become, in
proportion as civilization has perfected it-
self, an antiquated lie.
			*	*	*
	It is possible that not one woman in ten
thousand has grasped with scientific exact-
itude, and still less could express with ver-
bal sharpness, the great central conditions
which yet compel and animate her into ac-
tion.
	If the parasite woman on her couch,
loaded with gew-gaws, the plaything and
amusement of man, be the permanent and
final manifestation of female human life on
the globe, then that couch, is also the death-
bed of human evolution.


