SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	-	MAY, 1911


[Column 1]
SCIENTISTS AND PHILOSOPHERS.
	The present day is one of great research
and discovery, and men of superior intel-
lectual attainments are delving deep into the
mysteries of nature and of creative life, and
trying to solve problems that have with-
stood the test of time since the world be-
gun, as it were, by scientific processes, or
what has been termed by one popular French
writer “Creative Evolution.” In fact he
has written a book on the subject, which is
at least creating a sensation, but which so
few people will understand that it may not
do so much harm as it otherwise would.
	A writer in Current Literature for May
says: “M. Bergson addresses himself to the
most difficult problems, with which the hu-
man mind has to deal, etc. Even Wil-
liam James confesses that he does not un-
derstand all of Bergson, and adds, “I doubt
whether any one understands him all over
so to speak.”
	Without going into his philosophy or dis-
cussing his book, etc., one who knows the
revelations given in these latter days
through the Prophet Joseph Smith feels
when reading such articles as the one al-
luded to, and others of a similar kind, that
it is all vanity as the Preacher says in ec-
clesiasties, “Vanity of Vanities saith the
Preacher Vanity of Vanities: all is vanity.”
	Another verse reads, “One generation.
passeth away, and another generation com-
eth: but the earth abideth for ever,” etc.
	Some paragraphs quoted in the article re-
ferred to are very beautiful, but not con-
sistent with truth as taught in the Scrip-
tures, or by revelation in these latter-days
of the fulness of times.
	The Latter-day Saints have had such per-
fect teaching in regard to matters that are
essential to knowledge of the present, and
of salvation hereafter, that they are more
content than the outside world, and the
mysteries that are hidden and past finding
out must remain until revealed by Him, who
has created all things.
	It reminds one forcibly of the saying in
Job—
	Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst
thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?
	It is as high as heaven, what canst thou do?
deeper than hell what canst thou know?
	And yet notwithstanding the obstacles
that impede the solving of mysteries, men
(and women) still go on prying into the
hidden secrets of creative life, although they
know how useless it must be after all the

[Column 2]
centuries that are past. Even when the
Lord has revealed from time to time many
things, yet there are other underlying prin-
ciples possibly not yet revealed, that await
those who are to come forward into life and
action.
	The Key to Theology gives many sug-
gestions on the subjects M. Bergoson deals 
with, but differs widely also from his as-
sertions on the most important matters at is-
sue.
	There are perhaps but a few of our young
people that have ever read the wonderful
book to which we have here referred. If some
of the great philosophers would read the
Key to Theology and in a serious spirit (not
one of ridicule) thinking no good thing
could come from Mormonism, they might be
greatly enlightened on the questions, some
of them at least, over which they are puz-
zling their brains without much success.
	The Lord has revealed and does reveal
many wonderful principles that scientists
and philosophers are studying to learn, and
searching to discover, and the key notes
really given in the little book spoken of, but
there are other truths yet to be revealed
to those who keep the laws and command-
ments already made known to them.

“The mystic future with its depths profound
For ages counted as unbidden ground—
Now lifts its veil that man may penetrate
The secret springs the mysteries of fate.
Know whence he is and whither he is bound,
And why the spheres perform their ample round.”


