in the principles of woman suffrage for
many years.”


[Column 1]
	THE TEMPERANCE QUESTION. 
	The sentiment against the use of alcoholic
beverages is everywhere becoming stronger
and more stable among good and intelligent
men. The use of intoxicants is now seldom
if ever urged as a benefit or a necessity so-
cially or morally. On the contrary, it is
rightfully and most justly condemned as an
enemy to social, moral, and religious ad-
vancement. It is now generally conceded
that the moral and social standard of the
community as well as the individual is great-
ly enhanced by the total absence of intoxi-
cating liquor.
	Seventy years ago, the Lord said to His
people, through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
that “In consequence of evils and designs
which do and will exist in the hearts of con-
spiring men in the last days, I have warned
you, and forewarn you by giving unto you
this word of wisdom by revelation.
	“That inasmuch as any man drinketh
wine or strong drink among you, behold
it is not good, neither meet in the sight of
your Father, only in assembling your-
selves together to offer up your sacraments
before him.” To the Latter-day Saints, the
word of the Lord needs no confirmation,
but it is gratifying to note how science and
experience are proving the divinity of this
revelation.
	Investigations in physiology have dem-
onstrated conclusively the wisdom of this di-
vine declaration; and today physiologists 
throughout the land are warning millions
of boys and girls of the evil effects of al-
coholic beverages.
	A few years ago, it was thought that al-
cohol was good for a person exposed to ex-
treme cold weather. A little liquor, it was
believed, would “keep out the cold.” Though
the Lord had said it was not good, many
insisted that it was. The explorations in
the north have proved beyond a doubt that
the men who used alcohol perished of cold 
before those who abstained from the use of
it.
	In fact, so evident have the evil effects of
intemperance become that colleges, athletes,
railroads, and even nations themselves are
declaring against it:
	The lounger, the loafer, the drunkard, the
weakened character, the unfaithful husband,
the unreliable father, the ruined manhood
and debauched womanhood—all testify to
the evils and degradation following in the
wake of intemperance. 
	The recent State Legislature enacted a
law making it obligatory upon cities and
towns in Utah to decide by vote, June 27th,
whether or not saloons shall be licensed to
dispense alcoholic beverages. The question
plainly stated is this: Will the people in
each community continue to condone the
traffic in that which the Lord says is in-
jurious to man, or will they express their
disapproval of a business that undermines
society, debases the morals of a community,
and destroys manhood.
	To work thus in the interest of tem-
perance is highly commendable, and in har-

[Column 2]
mony with the teachings of the Church dur-
ing the last seventy-eight years. It is to be
engaged in a good cause; and the Lord has
said that “Men should be anxiously en-
gaged in a good cause, and do many things
of their own free will and bring to pass
much righteousness; for the power is in
them, wherein they are agents unto them-
selves, and inasmuch as men do good they
shall in nowise lose their reward.”
	The best way to teach temperance is to
keep the Word of Wisdom; and the next
best is to assist others to keep it by remov-
ing artificial temptations from their lives.
Such a temptation is the saloon, and it is
time that the sentiment in the communities
where the members of the Church reside
should be declared against this soul-destroy-
ing evil.
	Let no one suppose for a moment that the
liquor dealers, and their unfortunate tip-
pling patrons are going to yield the profits
of their traffic, on the one hand, the grati-
fication of their acquired and debasing thirst
for intoxicants, on the other hand, without
a desperate struggle.
	Those in favor of temperance and the
abolition of the drinking saloon as a means
to that much desired end, should realize that
they will have to meet most alert, wily and
determined foes, who will not hesitate to
use every possible means in their power to
defeat their opponents.
	Pro-saloonists will combine, will be ac-
tive, energetic and determined to defend
their craft; while there is danger that their
opponents, will be less wide-awake, less re-
sourceful and alert and thereby fail to match
them with that united, intelligent and deter-
mined effort so worthy of the temperance
cause. Let every man do his duty, as we
may well believe every true woman will do
hers.—(From Editorial in Juvenile In-
structor.)
