WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
		UTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Utah Stake, was held at Springville, April
20th, 1911. The singing was furnished by
the Stake Relief Society choir consisting of
fifty members.
	After the opening exercises of the morn-
ing session. Sister Julia Maycock wel-
comed the sisters and Inez K. Allen re-
spended. Miss Louie Robinson sang, “He
leadeth me.”
	The secretary read the summary of the
year’s work. General President, Emmeline
B. Wells, spoke of the organization of the-
Church; also of the transformation of
Brigham Young when the mantle of the
Prophet Joseph fell upon him, and the su-
perior personality of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	General counselor, Clarassa S. Williams,
spoke of the early trials of the saints and
their final triumph in reaching a place where
they could worship God according to their
own conscience; compared them to the early
settlers of America.
	Bishop Oliver Huntington spoke of the
first Relief Society and the good they have
done from then until now.
	Counselor Emily A. Holbrook urged the
mothers to gain the confidence of their
daughters. Sister Percia Bunnell spoke of
the proper training of children and provid-
ing work for them.
	General Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke
of preparing our children, both sons and
daughters, for missions. After closing ex-
ercises meeting adjourned until two o’clock.
A splendid dinner was served to one hun-
dred and fifty visiting ladies.
	The afternoon session was largely at-
tended. After opening exercises the gen-
eral and stake officers were presented and
unanimously sustained.
	George S. Taylor, visiting committee man
from the High Council, spoke of the testi-
monies of those who knew the Prophet
Joseph. Read a portion of the revelation on
the Word of Wisdom, also spoke of Pro-
hibition, and urged the sisters to study the
question. General President Emmeline B.
Wells, said the organization of the Relief
Society was the first woman’s organization
effected in the world, urged the sisters to
maintain the dignity of the Relief Society.
	A quartette—Sarah G. Ramsay, Sarah
F. Jones, Etta F. Whitehead, and Pearl
Jones, all of Provo, sang, “Tarry with me,
oh my Savior.” General Counselor Claras-
sa S. Williams spoke of proper employment
for children. General Counselor Julina L.
Smith spoke of genealogical work and the
good it is doing. Sister Lizzie Glispie ac-
companied by the choir sang, “An angel
from on high.” President M. A. F. Keeler
made a few closing remarks.
	After closing exercises conference ad-
journed for six months.
				MAY S. GLAZIER,
					Assistant Sec’y.
Summary of Year’s Work Ending March
			31, 1911.
	During the past year a number of changes
have been made in the stake organization.
Catherine Bassett resigned as missionary,
and Deseret Grey was chosen to fill the
vacancy.

[Column 2]
	Pauline Bean resigned as Treasurer and
Louie T. Brown was appointed.
	Nellie O. Parker, Assistant Secretary,
resigned and May S. Glazier was appointed.
	George S. Taylor was appointed by the
High Council to visit the organization in
place of J. H. Frisby, E. D. Partridge and
Bent Johnson, Jr., who were released.
	An excursion to Wandamere, Aug. 31st,
1910, proved to be a great success, both
socially and financially, after paying all ex-
penses the Society received $53.10.
	At our last conference we were greatly
favored with a lecture on Morality, by
Dr. Joseph Peterson.
	The stake officers feel it their duty to as-
sist all it is possible, in visiting the sick and
aged, so have been arranged in groups of
three, to visit the different wards in the
stake.
	Reports of the presidents of all the wards
in the stake have been heard by the stake
officers and greatly appreciated. All are in
excellent condition. The Provo Second
Ward Society raised $1,000.00 for their
meeting house.
	The Provo Fourth Ward has installed a
temple fund, by making and selling cloth-
ing and quilts. When a worthy person de-
sires to work in the temple and have no
funds, the Society sends them, thus increas-
ing the interest in temple work among the
saints.
	The Pleasant View Society purchased a
steel wheat tank that has given perfect satis-
faction. All associations report wheat in
good condition.
	The special missionaries report having
visited a great many homes of all denom-
inations, and with but few exceptions have
been treated nicely. They are doing much
good. The committee to visit the sick have
done all in their power to relieve those’who
are sick.
	During the past year Pleasant Valley and
Winter Quarters two of our wards have
been taken from us and given to the Car-
bon Stake, thus making a difference in our
report both statistical and financial.


Annual Relief Society at Roy.
	Minutes of the Relief Spciety Anniver-
sary of the Roy ward of Weber Stake, held
at the Roy meeting-house, March 17th,
1911. President Charlotte A. Hollands,
presiding, there were one hundred and fifty
people present. Singing, “O Ye Mountains
High;” prayer by Bishop Thomas Hollands.
	Singing, “Praise to the Man.” Minutes of
the last anniversary read and approved. The
program was rendered as follows:
	Sister Martha Jane Hammond gave a
short talk on the first organization of the
Relief Society, and gave the names of the
brethren and sisters that were present. Song
by Esteile Baker. Song by Jedediah Ham-
mond. Instrumental music by Lovinia
Brown. Song by John H. Hobson and
daughter, Lovinia. Recitation by Elizabeth
Gibby. Comic reading by Hattie Gibby.
Song by the two sisters Gibby. Select read-
ing by Emma Hammond. Song by John H.
Hobson.
	We next had a few remarks by Sister
Sarah A. Field. Said she always rejoiced
in the Gospel and in the Relief Society work,
said her testimony had been strengthened
by searching after the truth.


Duet by John H. Hobson, and company.
	President Hollands made some closing
remarks, was pleased to see so many pres-
ent. Singing, “Count Your Many Bless-
ings.” Benediction, Counselor Elizabeth V.
Jones.
		MARY E. DALTON, Secretary.


Annual Day at Fillmore.
	Sisters of the Fillmore Relief Society and
visitors of the ward met in the Latter-day
Saint Chapel, March 16, 1911, in commer-
ation of Annual Day which is March 17,
1911. Presided over by President Mary
Jane Kelly.
	Song, “O Ye Mountains High,” sung by
the congregation. Singing was led by Rob-
ert King. Prayer by Bishop Brunson. Con-
gregation sang, “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.”
	The following program was rendered:
	Lecture, “The Key Turned in Behalf of
Woman,” by Sister Ann. E. Peterson. Duet,
sisters Rhoda Melville and Dora Anderson.
Reading, Sister Julia Day, Essay, “The gen-
eral presidency of the Relief Society from
the first organization to the present time,”
given by Sister Gertrude Robison. Song,
Sister Stella Day. Recitation, Sister Nel-
lie Huntsman. Bishop Peter L. Brunson
spoke for a short time, said he had en-
joyed the excellent program, and that of all
the organizations the Relief Society was
in lead. Spoke of Sister Yates, of Scipio
coming back in vision to Brother Orvill
Thompson. Piano solo, Sister Katherine
Woodhouse gave some very good advice.
President Kelly then stated she was pleased
to see so many out, and hoped to see as
many present to our regular meetings.
Spoke of the mothers’ plan for 1911. 
	Names of doners were then read. Con-
tinued further by congregation singing,
“Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Benediction by Brother Robert King.
