SELECT WRITINGS.
	The above is the title of a new book by a
Mormon Patriarch, William Halls, at the
present time a resident in Mancos, Colorado.
The work has been edited by Edward H.
Anderson, Editor of the “Improvement Era”
and a man well known in Utah, and especi-
ally in Salt Lake City, for his careful edi-
torial work and excellent ability as a writer.
	The book contains a variety of subjects
opening with an autobiographical sketch of
the author which is very interesting and de-
picts briefly the varied scenes and circum-
stances of the true Mormon life and char-
acter. The conversion, the baptism, the or-
dinations, the journey to America and across
the plains; life in Utah, and missions, etc. 
These things are always interesting and
helpful to others who have had similar ex-
periences, and especially are such sketches
of pioneers, who have helped colonize this
western land. The noble men and women
who have endured hardships and peril by
land and sea for the Gospel’s sake deserve
honor at the hands of those who share in the
blessings and privileges they have helped
to establish and maintain.
	A variety of subjects are treated upon by
the Author, and in an interesting way; some
of them particularly so, and the book is one
that parents need not hesitate to put in
childrens hands, or in the Sabbath School or
other libraries.
	“A True Prophet—Why? Miracles, Miss-
ing Links, Tribute to Cӕsar, “What Life
Means To Me.” These are a few of the
titles to chapters. The book contains one
hundred and fifty pages, and is printed on
clear, white paper, and well bound in cloth,
presenting a neat and substantial appear-
ance. Such good books as this one of
Brother Halls should be encouraged, our


young people know very little of the Mor-
mon pilgrims and pilgrimages. Many of
them are utterly ignorant of the manner of
living in the early days in the valley. One
would conclude hearing some of our boys
and girls talk, that they know more an-
cient history and lands over the sea, than of
the Great West and the famous people, who
came first and settled in these beautiful
mountain vales. Such books as this one of
Brother William Halls would enlighten
them considerably in more ways than one,
if they would read seriously. There are
some parts of it, however, that are humor-
ous; and we wish the author success in its
circulation among the people of the West
and of the Church. It is safe reading for
boys and girls and will not lead them astray.


