THE OLD STONE CHURCH.
Today I heard the church bells ring
	Out on the cool, clear wind;
It wakened memories sweet and sad
	Of years that lie behind.
I saw the old stone church, my dear,
	In that back country town;
Where not a shadow kept the sun,
	From pouring warmly down.

Around it rose the fair, green hills,
	Where fed the sleek, fat kine;
Or rested ’neath the wide-spread boughs
	Of maple, elm, and pine.
Near by the little churchyard lay,
	Its headstones white and low;
There lilacs ope’d their purple buds,
	And roses wild did grow.

In happy girlhood there I went
	To church, and never knew
That years before a little boy
	Sat in one high-backed pew.
Ah, Richard, nothing told me then,
	How sometime, I should see
That child’s sweet face within your own,
	And filled with love for me.

I well recall one Sabbath day,
	The summer time of year;
I stood within that time-worn desk,
	And felt the angels near;
I heard again the organ peal;
	Saw each familiar face;
And you presiding in the chair
	With quiet, manly grace.

How many feet who oft with us
	Have crossed that threshold o’er
Now tread the glad, immortal heights
	Upon the other shore
And voices that oft joined with ours
	In praise to heaven above
Still sing somewhere in better lands,
	Their songs of better love. 

Dear Richard, you may, some sad day,
	In parting, hold my hand;
Or I may be the first to go
	To meet that spirit band.
It matters not, I only ask
	That we rest side by side;
Beneath the lilacs’ fragrant bloom,
	Upon that green hillside.
					—Alice M. Warren.
Petersham, Massachusetts.


[Column 1]
DO WE WANT PROHIBITION?
	One evening this spring a number of
women working along reform lines attend-
ed a meeting of the City Council of Salt
Lake City. The matter of granting a retail
liquor license to the lesee of a public resort
situated in the heart of the city was ex-
pected to be decided. The officers of the
Juvenile Court having made the claim that
the beginning of the down fall of ninety
per cent of the girls brought before the
court might be traced to this particular re-
sort; these good women hoped, by their
presence at the council meeting to be able to
exert sufficient influence to cause the refusal
of the license. They arrived early and ar-
rayed themselves in the seats outside the
railing to the north of the council room. It
was a long session and every matter on the
docket from dog catchers to gravel beds,
including leaves of absence for policemen
and pasturage for useless horses connected
with the fire department was argued and
considered and voted upon, until the visi-
tors felt they had certainly attained a post-
graduate course in city gravel beds, and
were more than sufficiently educated in city
departmental work, besides being thorough-
ly fumigated with cigar smoke. But they
refused to accept their dismissal in any such 
polite(?) manner and determined to see the
thing through if it took all night, which it

[Column 2]
very nearly did, for it was midnight when
some of them reached home.
	However, they felt fully repaid, for the
license was not granted.
	To the south side of the room, opposite
the ladies, were a number of men, many of
them friends of the liquor man and during
the long evening it was quite possible to
make observations. Of one man in partic-
ular who sat there and who wanted this li-
cense granted, let me tell you a story. He
is now a red-faced, thick necked, bent,
coarse, ill-smelling fellow, but not many
years ago he was a tall, straight, fair-haired,
young Swede who courted a young Swedish
girl, who worked for one of these women.
The girl herself was neat, quick, and bright
a housemaid to please the most fastidious
of mistresses; and when she decided to wed
her suitor, it was with much regret that the
lady saw her leave. On account of the girl’s
conscientious work in her home the mis-
tress always felt an interest in her and had
watched and helped them along. The hus-
band was a good worker and they began
life in a little home built on rented ground
with the understanding that after a certain
amount of rent and interest was paid the
home was theirs. For a while they pros-
pered pretty well. After the first baby came
and the little wife was well again she wanted
to help increase the family income, as she
so longed to own her home, so she began
to take in washing. Together they saved
enough money to buy a horse and wagon,
the husband believing that by giving up his
position and running an express wagon he
could make more money and probably help
his wife more with her work by bringing
and returning her laundry work.
	Well, I don’t know how it happened first,
but probably in the cold weather, standing
waiting for a call the man was tempted to
“warm up his insides” with a little liquor.
At any rate it wasn’t long until a good many
of the dollars earned with the horse and
wagon found their way into the saloon man’s
pocket and the family living had to depend
almost entirely on the earnings of the little
wife. The family increased quite rapidly
and the services and help of friends and
neighbors had frequently to be given, but
the plucky little woman toiled on and each
time as soon as she could regain a little
strength, she would be at her washing again.
Soon in that home every day became a
wash day. The man still made a little, but
the rent fell in arrears and as the children
became old enough they too had to begin
to earn something to help buy food and
clothes. The girls at ten and nine years
went out in service and the boys at seven
and six began selling papers on the street. 
The little mother, her strength fast giv-
ing way, saw that she had attained that
glorious condition of motherhood only to
her sorrow and despair. Not only all her
husband’s earnings now went into the sa-
loon man’s pocket, but the little boys were
intercepted on their way home, at night and
their money taken from them to satisfy the
father’s beastly appetite. Soon the boys
began to seek new ways home and avoid
the father, but when they did a beating for
themselves and too often, alas, for the moth-
er also was the result of the deceit.
	To detail farther the pitiful story of that
family would be too sorrowful, but the
bright, intelligent, brave young girl who
so lovingly placed her trust in the tall young
Swede is today an inmate of the state men-

[Column 3]
tal hospital, a crushed and helpless inval-
id. The oldest girl can be found in a well
known house of ill repute. The other chil-
dren ran away from home and have been
cared for through the efforts of benevolent 
people. And this man, this husband, this
father, and others of his ilk sat in that
council chamber hoping by their presence to
have some influence to help that liquor man
obtain a license to drag down to their level
other men and women by the sale of their
nefarious stock!
	You don’t have to go to Kansas nor to
Maine for arguments for prohibition. Just
open your eyes and look around near at
home. Is there a man or woman who can
truthfully say that drink has ever been a
benefit to any one? Is it not degrading, is
it not injurious physically, mentally and
spiritually? In any of the pursuits of in-
dustry and education the partaker of al-
coholic drinks is legislated against and what
possible argument could there be to wom-
en to convince them that the open saloon is
a good thing. What does it do for you, it 
impoverishes the home, leads boys and girls
to destruction, blights reason, destroys hap-
piness, kills love and makes life itself a
burden. The story I have told at the begin-
ning of this article is true and it is only
one of many such cases that might be told.
The women of this state are on trial now be-
fore the nation and many eyes are turned
towards Utah to see what the women are
going to do. Be frightened because of a
great scare that “business will be injured,”
or brave the consequences and stand for the 
protection of the home and the honor of
the State. Women hold the suffrage and
generally you find them working for prin-
ciple regardless of what this one or that
one may think or say. If the cause is a
good one, and a just one, women generally
put their faith in the cause and are willing
to leave the consequences to fate believing
that the Lord, who overrules all things will
certainly take care of those who strive to
overcome evil. As Latter-day Saints who
teach temperance in all things, and in our
doctrine have the word of wisdom as a di-
vine revelation, let us not forget. Now is
the great opportunity for all true men and
women to place themselves on record
against vice and evil. If, as some people
tell us, “prohibition don’t prohibit” this elec-
tion if won will remove many temptations
from the sight of boys and girls and it will
be possible for school children to go to and
from school without seeing drunken men by
the side walks, without being attracted by
fine music, to look through plate glass win-
dows where gorgeous mirrors reflect the
sparkling beverage, tempting glasses, that
bring death and despair. Oh! may we all
remember that mighty prayer on the mount
of Olives that has helped mankind through
the centuries.
	“Lead us not into temptation,
	But deliver us from evil.”
			—Annie Wells Cannon.


