A VETERAN WOMAN.
	A pleasant party was given at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Druce, Ninth East
Street, Salt Lake City, on the 17th of April,
1911. This was to celebrate the eighty-
seventh birthday anniversary of his mother,
Mrs. Julia Druce. There were about forty
people present, including members of the
family. Most of the guests belonged to the
old Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City, of which
organization Mrs. Druce had been a mem-
ber for many years, having lived in that
ward ever since the year she came into the
city, in 1861.
	Mrs. Julia Druce was president of the
Twelfth Ward Relief Society for about
thirty years; and Mrs. Jemima R. Midgley
was associated with her, during all that time,
as first counselor. The late Mrs. Eliza D.
Hooper, also acted as second counselor, for
many years.
	A program of exercises, consisting of
songs, instrumental music, recitations, read-
ing, short addresses, etc., was rendered.
Some beautiful flowers, etc., were presented
to the guest of honor. Among these was
a very fine, large bouquet of roses, given to
her by members of the old Twelfth Ward
Relief Society. Mrs. J. R. Midgley made
the presentation address. After a part of
the program had been given, a very nice
supper was served. The tables, decorated
with flowers, etc., made a fine appearance.
A birthday book, was presented by Mrs. E.
B. Wells, who is an old and dear friend of
Sister Druce, and, in it, all the people pres-
ent were requested to write their names,
as a remembrance of the occasion. Among
the guests, was Mrs. Mary Alice C. Lam-
bert, also an old and valued friend whom
Mrs. Druce had known since early days in
Utah.
	Short speeches were made by Patriarchs
Joshua Midgley and George Brooks. Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and others,
also entertained us with some appropriate
remarks. At the close of the evening pro-
gram Mr. George Brooks was asked to dis-
miss with prayer. All then went to their
homes feeling happy and confident that they
had enjoyed themselves.
	Sister Julia Druce is a remarkable wom-
an, a fine personality, a woman of research
as well as study, with a valuable fund of in-
formation on many subjects, companionable
and genial. As President of the Twelfth
Ward, associated with her counselors she
accumulated property and was successful


in keeping it for the benefit of the poor. 
Above all she is a thorough Latter-day 
Saint.


