GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
		ENCE, APRIL, 1911.
	The General Relief Society of the Church
assembled in conference in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Wednesday, April 5,
1911. President Emmeline B. Wells pre-
siding. The music was under the direction
of the Relief Society Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie
Thomas Edward, and Miss Edna Coray,
Relief Society organist.
	The morning session opened at 10 a. m.
by the congregation singing, “Come let us
Anew.” Prayer by Counselor Julina L.
Smith, singing. “Softly Beams the Sacred
Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a
greeting to the sisters assembled. Spoke of
the many glorious blessings and mercies
bestowed upon our people, and how grate-
ful she felt for the privilege of thus meeting
together to praise and worship the Most
High God. Hoped that while thus assem-
bled the workers of this great organization
would have a joyful time in the meeting of
friends and acquaintances and prayed that
there would be a flowing and overflowing
of the Spirit of God in our meetings, that
all would be satisfied to the fullest with the
conference. She blessed the sisters, every
one, and prayed for the Lord’s blessings
upon all.
	The President’s greeting was responded
to by Sister Harriet B. Harker, president
of the Salt Lake Relief Society, in a few
concise and pointed words. She referred to
her admiration of our general president, and
the great love all the sisters felt for her,
how her wonderful work and intellectual
attainments stood as an inspiration to the
women of Zion, referred touchingly and
lovingly to the life and example of our late
departed president, Bathsheba W. Smith
and expressed an appreciation for the great
work done in the different stakes of Zion.
	Louisa B. Benson, president of Oneida
Stake Relief Society, also responded to the
greeting in similar words, referring briefly
to stake work in general.
	Miss Edith Grant sang the beautiful song,
“I will lift up mine eyes.” Clarissa S. Wil-
liams then addressed the assembly. She
greatly rejoiced to see so many present at
the opening of the conference for she felt
that at the first session we received the key
note of the conference. In thinking of the
great work of the Relief Society a great
many questions arose in her mind, but late-
ly she had allowed her thoughts to dwell
somewhat on the first organization by the
Prophet, and the later development of the
work. The story of the organization though
an old story is always beautiful. It was a
direct answer to prayer and an inspiration.
And one thing that seems strange to me is
the fact that though the great work given
the sisters in the beginning was charity, still
not one of the other lines of work in which
we are engaged but was mentioned and
dwelt upon at the first meeting, by the
Prophet in his teaching to the sisters on
that occasion.
	She referred to Sister Emma whom he
named the elect lady and defined the ex-
pression “elect lady” as one who is called

[Column 2]
to preside and said we have many elect
ladies among us, not only the general pres-
ident, but presidents, of stakes and wards.
After the exodus from Nauvoo it was a
number of years before the work was re-
ceived in an organized way, but President
Brigham Young appointed Sister Eliza R.
Snow to continue the work of organization
and in under her fine excellent ability the
work of stake organizations was begun and
the system perfected, also in under the Relief
Society workers was initiated the organiza-
tion of the Retrenchment Society, after-
wards merged into the Y. L. M. I. A. and
the Primary Associations. Following Sister
Eliza was Sister Zina D. H. Young, then
we note a great development along charity
lines and later under Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith all we then had emphasized and oth-
er important works brought forth, notice-
ably the mothers work and the nurse work.
Many stakes now have begun to have the
nurse classes in their own stakes for the
slogan of the day is “keep your girls at
home,” better remain under the home en-
vironment at a dollar a month than risk the
pitfalls and snares for young women in the
city. Sisters of the Relief Society make it
your work to help the mothers keep their
girls from evil. The work of the Relief
Society embodies every good thing it should
be to the women, what the priesthood is to
the men. The Relief Society is the mother
organization and its possibilities are greater
than ever before. May we sense these re-
sponsibilities as mothers and sisters and
daughters in Zion, and I bless you with all
my heart, and I know the Lord does bless
you in your labors, Amen.
	Miss Elma Young sang a contralto solo,
“Ninety and Nine.”
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose continued along
the line of organization work and in a most
interesting way told of how organization
had spread to the islands of the sea and the
foreign countries. She described how the
elders go in boats along the coast of Nor-
way from one city to another, and there in
this northern land of the midnight sun, give
forth the message of the gospel, and wher-
ever possible have organized the women of
the Church into a branch Relief Society. She
dwelt at some length on the subject of the
age, of Adolescence, and urged the mothers
to be more diligent and careful in instructing
their daughters, for by the neglect of this
knowledge great suffering is caused.
	The congregation sang, “Oh ye Moun-
tains High,” and benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Carrie S. Thomas.
	At 2 p. m. The conference was resumed.
The congregation sang, “Glorious Things
are Sung of Zion,” and Sister Priscilla P.
Jennings offered the invocation. Singing,
“We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells then ad-
dressed the assembly, making reference to
recent public accusations against our peo-
ple and the necessity of answering them to
the women of the National Council with
whom we are affiliated in order to explain
our true position. She gave in detail our
relationship to the National and Internation-
al Councils of women. Dr. Jane W. Skol-
field then addressed the assembly on social
conditions. Her address was along the work
of social purity and she knew the necessity
of this work, for she had discovered that
Babylon had followed the people into these
mountains. Touching and heart-breaking

[Column 3]
instances she related that come to her per-
sonal knowledge, and she warned mothers
to keep their girls at home and to throw
around them every possible safeguard.
	Walter Lamareaux sang a bass solo,
“Rock of Ages,” after which Elder An-
thony W. Ivins, of the Quorum of the
Apostles, addressed the congregation on the
duties and responsibilities of the work of
the Relief Society. He dwelt at some
length on the importance of the word Relief,
and likened the work of this Society to the
teachings of Christ; referring to the parable,
that the good must be separated from evil,
the goats from the sheep, the tares from
the wheat, and they would enter into His
joy. And when they said, Lord when did
we not minister unto Thee He gave them
this great lesson. When He was naked they
had not clothed Him, when He was hungry
they did not feed Him, and they said, Lord
when saw we Thee in need, and here was
the key, in looking to do good in higher
places they had forgotten those around
them. Acts of mercy count with the Lord
whether administered with our own or a
stranger. He believed the Relief Society
tried to let love guide their actions and
if they did, and first loved the Lord, their
own, their neighbor, and even their ene-
mies, the Lord would surely bless them.
No kind act goes unapproved of the Lord.
	Mrs. Lizzie T. Edward most beautifully
rendered the song, “When the Swallows
Homeward Fly.”
	Sister Annie M. Cannon made a few tell-
ing remarks pertaining to general Relief So-
ciety work, followed by Second Counselor
Julina L. Smith, who spoke upon the sub-
ject of social purity and the broad charity
needed by the sisters in dealing with the dif-
ficult problems of their work.
	After singing, “Zion Stands with Hills
Surrounded,” benediction was pronounced
by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley.
	Saturday, April 8, the general and Stake
Officers of the Relief Society held an officers
meeting in the assembly room of the Bish-
op’s Building. There were fifty-three stakes
represented. The time of the session was
given over to the answering questions along
the different lines of work. Many impor- 
tant matters were discussed.
	Saturday afternoon, April 9, the confer-
ence reconvened in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in open session.
	After singing, “How Firm a Founda-
tion,” prayer was offered by Sister Julia P.
M. Farnsworth, singing, “Guide Us, Oh
Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Sister Alice M. Horne then addressed
the assembly on the subject of Thrift versus
Poverty. She mentioned how every spirit
comes stamped with infinity and to each
one comes the task of working out his or
her own individuality. The great sorrow
was that so many are unable to discover
their own special talent. But God has
blessed many people to help these uncertain
ones and discover for them their gifts and
talents. We should be responsive to the
Father’s call, thankful for the talents He has
given us, and through study and intelli-
gence pass on to perfection. Through our
great system of teachers in our work we be-
come acquainted with every member of
every family, and it should be the duty of
the Relief Society to help these our friends
to know themselves. There are many kinds
of poverty. Nothing grows in poor soil.


Poverty is the great stumbling block in
the developmenqt of everything. The great-
est cause of evil is poverty. The three con-
ditions we must study to overcome poverty,
are the earning power, the spending power,
and the saving power. Mrs. Horne thus
referred to the saving and thrift of the
French and compared them with the Amer-
ican people, and thought that through our
Relief work we should instil the desire to
save and not be forever spending. She
gave some very apt and pertinent illustra-
tions of the extravagance of buying in small
quantities for family use; and gave good
instructions along the lines of household
economics.
	Sister Edward sang, “My Faith in Thee.”
	Mrs. Wolstenholme, representing the
Home Manufacturers Association, spoke up-
on Home Industry.
	President Emmeline B. Wells expressed
her great joy for the glorious spirit of the
conference; spoke of the many splendid sub-
jects brought before us by the different
speakers, and the wonderfully beautiful mu-
sic. Advised the sisters to arm themselves
with prayer and faith, to ward off every
evil. After singing, “Come, Come ye Saints”
and prayer by Sister Phebe Y. Beatie, the
conference adjourned until October, 1911.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON, 
					Acting Secretary.


