WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
		(Continued from page 47.)
	Our next thought was to prepare for the
winter and at the same time find out what
would be the surest way to make means to
go to the Valley. The family all felt united
in trying to get ready. My husband made 
himself a wagon and they bought cattle and
did not know who did this but in the fall
of forty-seven we moved to the mines and
on the fourth day of May our first child,
a daughter, was born to us. The cold win-
ter was over and the men went to work in
the mines. After a few weeks of hard labor
they struck a heavy vein of lead ore which
proved to be very rich. With this we ex-
pected to be able to start the following 
spring for the Valley. The cattle and hay
enough for their winter’s feed were pur-
chased and hay stacked on the river bottoms,
but some one went and set fire to it. We
did not know who did this but in a few 
days a man came and wanted to buy the cat-
tle. We did not sell them but bought corn
and more hay and fed them until the spring
of forty-eight. We started on our journey 
to the Valleys of the Mountains all the fam-
ily going together. We came as far as 
Iowa and after crossing the Des Moines riv-
er we camped about two miles this side of
the river opposite the town of Edeville.
Here we were detained by sickness. One 
of our number, a sister of my husband, was 
sick of a fever, but we were compelled to 
prepare for the winter. There was plenty of
work to be had and everything was cheap,
so that we got along very well. In the 
spring of forty-nine we started again on
our journey and in about four weeks we
arrived at Council Bluffs. On the ninth of 
September, 1849, our second daughter was
born. We stayed here until 1852, when we
started for Utah. Our third daughter was 
born while at Council Bluffs on March 5,
1852. We remained here until May, 1852,
when we started for Utah. It was quite an
undertaking for me to begin such a journey
with three small children, the baby only 
three months old. I felt very anxious to get
back where the Saints were located so that I
was quite willing to go. We started in

[Column 2]
May and after a long journey we arrived
in Utah, in Salt Lake, in October, just be-
fore conference.
	Soon after my second daughter was born
my husband began to think of taking anoth-
er wife. I believed in the principle of plural 
marriage and felt that it would not be right
for me to oppose my husband’s wish, as I 
knew he was very kind to me, and I had
faith that the principle had been revealed 
from on high. I asked myself the question,
am I prepared to embrace that principle and
shall I be able to lay aside many of my ten-
der feelings and many of my faults. I felt
that without the help of some higher power
I never could but I knew it would be wrong
to oppose it, so I at last consented, and
about August 12, 1849, my husband was
married to Pamelia Blackburn. There was
a great deal to do but we got along very
well in our home. At this time sickness
broke out in the company and many died 
of cholera. My baby was taken seriously
sick but was held by the faith and adminis-
tration of the Priesthood.
	Shortly after we arrived in the valley
we moved to Centerville where we re-
mained until the spring of fifty-three and
my husband went to Kaysward, Davis
County, where he took up some land
and that summer raised a good crop
of wheat and other things for our
sustenance. In the fall the scarlet fever
broke out, my sister-in-law took it and died
the fourth day after taking sick. Shortly 
after her death my eldest daughter took the
fever and after lingering four weeks and
suffering untold agony she passed away to
the spirit world. Three days after her death
my baby who had been ill for sometime, 
grew worse and died. This left me with but
one child. Every one was afraid to come 
near on account of the disease, and had it
not been for an emigrant lady who was
camped close by, I should have had to lay
out my own sweet children. Through this 
great sorrow it seemed that God sustained
and helped me to bear it.
	We had plenty of work, in those days
we were obliged to make our own dresses 
and in fact everything we needed. Thus we
labored and raised our families together
and taught our children to love each other.
As our families grew larger we thought it
best for each family to have a home. We 
had lived together fifteen years, ten years
of that time my husband’s third wife lived
with us. We separated to our different 
homes with the best of feelings for each oth-
er. About this time many of the Saints were
called to settle Bear Lake, and as we had
large families we thought it best to go
where we could get more land so we de-
cided to go to Bear Lake. We passed
through many hardships and privations that
a new country is heir to. In the fall of sixty-
nine twelve of our family came down with
typhoid fever. There were no doctors near
at that time so we had to do the best we
could. Sister Emeline Rich was very kind
and did all in her power to help us, but two
of our children, after great suffering, were
taken by the hand of death. One being a 
lovely child, a son sixteen years of age of
the second wife and the other a son, aged
ten years, of mine; both died within twen-
ty-four hours of each other. For three
months our house was like a hospital and
for many weeks we did not know how it
would be with us. Sometime previous to
this the Relief Society was organized and


[Column 1]
I was chosen to preside. The Relief Society
of Paris, Bear Lake Stake, Idaho, was or-
ganized by Apostle Charles C. Rich, May
29, 1868, with Sister E. Davis as president,
and Sisters Maria Rich and Eliza A. Rich
as her counselors. Sister Davis soon moved
to Ogden and Sister Maria Rich was ap-
pointed to fill her place. Sister Julia P.
Lindsay and Sister Caroline Kimball as 
counselors. The Society was reorganized
February 1, 1872 with Julia P. Lindsay as
President and Sisters Caroline Kimball and
Elizabeth Codings as counselors. Two wards
were soon in 1878 created in Paris and a Re-
lief Society organized in each. Julia P.
Lindsay was chosen stake president of Re-
lief Society in February, 1879, set apart
for this labor by Apostle Charles C. Rich,
James Hart and Geo. Osmond. Sisters
Elizabeth Collings and Maria Rich were set
apart as counselors to President Julia P.
Lindsay. After Sister Maria Rich moved
away Sister Lizzie Hart was chosen to fill
her place. After the death of Sister Col-
lings in June 14, 1898, Sister Lizzie Hart
was chosen and set apart as first counselor,
and Sister Mary Bagley, second counselor.
Sister Lizzie Hart was taken accidently
from this life in January, 1894, then Sister
Mary Bagley was sustained and set apart
as first counselor and Sister Amelia Hoge
as second counselor, and sister Nora Austin
as assistant in Sister Hoge’s place.
	Throughout all these years of stake labor
each Society has been visited once a year,
although many storms, bad roads and in-
conveniences of travel have been faced, but
through fortitude and great determination
the duties of these labors have b[-]en accom-
plished and great blessings realized. The
sisters in the presidency have labored in
love and unity, each giving the other sup-
port and encouragement. During the trials
of parting with the counselors when death
has claimed them, Julia Lindsay has become
reconciled, feeling that it was the hand of
God and that they had been faithful in their
duties and that God would provide help for
her, this He did. It seemed strange that
Julia Lindsay, the president, is still pre-
served and able to fill these duties when oth-
er younger help has been taken away. It
seems the hand of God is sustaining her in
this work. Even as late as August 20, 1907
she has been privileged to take charge of
the Relief Society conference of this stake,
in great strength of spirit and clearness of
mind. Trusting in God always for guid-
ance, help, and wisdom has enabled Julia
Lindsay to fulfill so faithfully all her duties
as president. She was called to part with
her companion who had been a devoted hus-
band, January 3, 1889. This great trial she
bore patiently and wisely as any noble spirit
does. She has gone on as faithfully as be-
fore and been greatly blessed of God in her
widowhood. When clouds of doubt and dis-
couragement darkened her path she would
seek aid from on high and receive support
and strength to go on and keep up spirit.
	Julia P. Lindsay has been the mother
of eight children. This speaks volumes
for her. Though she, as you will see
by the past record, has had to lay
away little ones in death, she has raised
five to man and womanhood and carried on
her labors as well in the stake. At this writ-
ing, August, 1907, her grandchildren num-
ber fifty-four, great grand children eighteen,
and great great grand children twelve, in all
seventy-four.

[Column 2]
	With such a record none need fear the fu-
ture, great indeed must be the reward of
such a mother, grand mother, great grand
mother, and great great grand mother, with
such a life of faithful church work and
nobility, and integrity of heart sustained to
such an age as her’s.


