[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: THE S. L. ASSEMBLY HALL. | Author: Unknown]

THE S. L. ASSEMBLY HALL.

	O Ood, the Eternal, the Father of the heavens
and the earth, in the name of thy Son Jesus
Christ, we a small portion of the human family
have assembled ourselves together under is


roof for an especial purpose and we do pray
Thee, that Thou wilt inspire both the speakers,
and the hearers, with a portion of thy heavenly
divine influence, that good shall be the result of
our assembling together that we may learn, and
prepare ourselves for storm, or fair weather: for
war, or peace, for prosperity, or adversity. Thou
hast blest us in early youth, thou hast been with
us all the journey of life thus far, and we pray
Thee, that Thou wilt forget us not in our declin-
ing years. Thou didst cause that the earth should
roll into existence, and from chaos it was formed.
Thou didst cause that the earth should produce
vegetation, and that the human, and animal crea-
tion should subsist upon it, and dwell upon its
face; and now we do implore Thee, that Thou
wilt bless the earth, that it may still bring forth
vegetation, and that Thou wilt cause the dews of
heaven to descend, and the rains in due season.
Wilt Thou temper the climate for the good of
mankind, and all animal creation, that we may
feel to praise Thy holy name that mankind does
live. Wilt Thou the Great Eternal command
the lightning, the earthquakes, and the elements,
that they may be manifested for the good of all
vegetable, and animal creation. We pray for
the weak; we pray for the afflicted, and we pray
for the strong, that they may be willing to help
carry the burdens of the weak. We pray that
Thou wilt in Thine own way and time, mellow
the hearts of the wicked aud immoral, that Thy
grace may spread and form a canopy over the
whole earth, that sin and wickedness may not be
known, and righteousness triumph. Wilt Thou
be with the rulers of the nation, that Thy voice
shall reach their ears in their council chambers,
that they may fear to make unjust laws, and that
they may study to improve and make better those
already formed, that the cries of the people may
not reach Thee because of oppression. Wilt thou
soften the hearts of the rigid, that the means that
man has at his disposal may be used for the whole
of humanity, may they not forget their benefactor
but ever bend the knee in humble reverence to
Thee. Wilt Thou be with woman as Thou hast
with man, to strengthen her where she is weak
that she may aid in the defense of truth and
right, and where her voice is heard throughout
the broad face of the earth, may it have echo in
the hearts of the honest, and may she serve to
smooth the wrinkles of unjust laws, as she does
and has, the pillows beneath the aching heads of
Thy soldiers and servants. We pray Thee that
Thou wilt bless Thy handmaidens here in this
little nook in the valleys of the mountains, that
we may perform noble and grand acts that will
compare with the grandeur of the mountains
around. Hear us O Father at this time, and ac-
cept of onr humble offering for we dedicate our-
selves, our meeting, and our cause unto Thee,
asking a forgiveness of our sins, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.


[Column 1]
