LESSON II.
Work and Business. Second Week in April.
LESSON III.
Genealogy and Art. Third Week in April.
GENEALOGY.
We took the liberty last month of transposing the March and April lesson in order to meet the needs of a number of stakes that desired this done. This month we again suggest that a beginner's class in genealogy taken from our last year's Guide Lessons and from the Genealogical Lesson Book shall be kept up in all the branches of the Society. Those who have these lessons well learned and who are in the advanced grade will be glad of the practical help given this year in our lesson work for the establishment of a firm foundation on which to carry forward their individual and Relief Society work. But there are and always will be beginners who need the first lessons. It has been suggested by the Board that every member of the Society shall spend at least one day in a temple, or arrange for someone to do this for her. This brings up at once the great question of excursions to a temple. Many ask us how this can be done. We give the following suggestions for the chairman of the Genealogical Committee, acting always under the approval of the Relief Society Presidency:
1. Consult the stake Presidency and obtain their full approval.
2. Invite the representative of the Genealogical Society to co-operate with the Relief Society.
3. Ascertain from the railroad agent what arrangements can be made for party rates.
4. Find out through the ward Genealogical Committee about how many persons will go. Note: A successful plan is to invite so many from each ward to go, making them feel that it is a privilege rather than a duty.
5. Write to the president of the temple in your district and ask how many persons your stake may present at the chosen day or week. Note: Always visit your own temple rather than wait for conference time and try to come to the Salt Lake temple. That temple has been so crowded of late that hundreds are turned away each week, and conference time is always a particularly crowded week.
6. Ascertain where your people can get lodgings for a day or so, if you travel long distances, by writing to the stake president or the temple president. Some rent rooms and carry their own provisions.
7. The Genealogical Committee should next discover how many names can be supplied from their own wards and stakes. Oftentimes some poor persons have long lists of names, but cannot afford to go to the temple, while it also happens that some who can afford to go have no names. The committee in this case, can act as an exchange bureau. Note: Unless the chairman of the committee is familiar with the mode of preparing baptismal and other temple sheets, it is better to simply insist on each person bringing a clearly written statement of record of the work he wishes to do and trust to the competent temple recorders to prepare the names and information after reaching the temple. It must always be bourne in mind that the chairman of any or all committees in the Relief Society work under the advice and supervision of the presidency of her Society. There must be order in the Church. A chairman is always in order in devising ways and means for the advancement and development of the work placed under her charge; but this must be done after consultation, and with the direct approval, of the presidency of the Society.
8. Our last suggestions are for those who live too far away from the temples to take an excursion, but who should not be deprived of the privilege and blessing derived from this glorious work. (a) Work in harmony with your stake presidency, and the representative of the Genealogical Society. (b) Send your missionaries to every member of the Society, to collect means and names. (c) After arranging all data and having means enough to cover the cost of substitute work, forward the whole to the president of the temple in your district.
9. Report all official work thus done on your ward records. (a) Always remember your donations and make them proportionate to your circumstances.
Now, sisters, go on with this glorious and necessary work, and let no woman say "there is no temple work for me to do." Here is a way for all to work and be blessed in the doing of it.
QUESTIONS.
1. What arrangements can you suggest to enable your ward to be represented this year at the temple?
2. Who is the representative of the Genealogical Society in your ward and stake?
3. Which is the better plan to call persons to go on an excursion, or to invite them?
4. Write a model letter to the temple president, asking permission to visit the temple in your stake in one month from date.
5. What can you say about preparing sheets for your temple work?
6. What should be the attitude of the chairman of the Genealogical Committee to the president of the Relief Society?
7. If your stake is too far away to go on a temple excursion what can you do as satisfactory substitute work?
8. What members of the Society would you excuse from actual or substituted temple work during the year 1916?
ART AND ARCHITECTURE.
THE INTERDEPENDENCE OF LANDSCAPE AND ARCHITECTURE.
However unsightly a building may appear, or however beautiful the architecture of a home or church or business block may be, its effect may be greatly modified by the landscape. The English ivy, the Boston ivy, a climbing rose, wisteria or honeysuckle vine, or the fruiting grape, may be so successfully placed, that it assists the architecture in creating an atmosphere of sweetness and grace. On the other hand, a badly kept lawn, ugly paths and walks, and sickly, untrimmed trees, poorly placed, can make a poem of architecture look indeed ridiculous.
When designing a house or church building, the architect always gives consideration to the landscape?the surrounding fields, trees, and buildings. It would be poor judgement, indeed, to plan beautiful architecture, without planning for the surroundings as well. A lawn here, a walk there, a rose garden yonder, a tall tree planted to balance the other end of the roof, a mass of flowers, a garden-seat?any one of these may be used to make perfection or to mar the beauty of church or home. The architecture and garden, together, may be all that one might desire, yet there are moments when the landscape unites with them to complete a picture worthy to be preserved forever. Let us not then pass unnoticed the rose-tinted clouds at dawn, the wind-swept cloud, a sunset sky, a double rainbow, that gives this added touch of entrancing loveliness. And while we study beautiful buildings, let us think of beautiful gardens, and a beautiful landscape, to complete the picture.
Let us pay special attention to the surroundings, in connection with the home. Turn to page 144, Devotees and Their Shrines, and notice an illustration in which the lines all lead to the porch roof, and then come down the corner post to our lady in white. The masses of flowers in the foreground, seem to creep close to the path, which leads up to the step, and the fences seem to follow toward the same goal. The nearby stones seem comfortably settled in lines leading to this same spot. Therefore, there is rest, harmony and rhythm, in this picture. Without Mrs. Allen, the picture would not be so successful.
Turn to page 145, to the house where Julina Lambson Smith was born, and note the splotch of green in the upper left-hand corner. It repeats the mass of tree and vine. It gives a touch of strength and vigour to the whole picture, and by filling up a large, empty space, in the sky, makes the design good. Draw a circle, including dear Aunt Melissa, the vine, and the chimney, and the bush at the corner of the house. A second and larger circle will include Uncle Albert at the door, the poplar tree, the dark spot of tree in the sky, the distant trees and shrubs beyond the kitchen, as well as the shrubs below, the holly-hocks, and the border in the foreground. Circles such as these are very pleasing in architecture and landscape gardens, as well as in pictures and statuary.
We have studied this lesson of artistic gardening by Leila Merrill Allen, page 144, Devotees and Their Shrines, with the idea of choice of flowers and flower beds. Now add to this, the thought of the architecture and landscape surroundings of the home.
QUESTIONS.
a. Why do you plan a garden with walks, borders, lawn, trees, shrubs, and flower beds? b. Invent a colour scheme for a garden for spring flowers. c. Invent a colour scheme for fall flowers. d. What vines may be trained over sheds to give beauty? e. What flowers are most suitable for a brilliant border; what for a sweet-scented border? f. Make a plan for a peony garden. When should the peonies be planted? g. Design a rose garden behind the house. h. Plan walks and flower beds with place for dwelling indicated. i. Plan paths, creek, and house in a mountain home (p. 152).
Read: Pages 149-150, "The Dear Old Garden," written by Aunt Em, of her own garden. a. What part of Mrs. Wells' life did the garden fill? b. If she had not known the joy of a garden, that beautiful poem could never have been written. What are its most beautiful lines and thoughts? c. Read "The Cottage," by the architect Dallas?page 151. d. From its perusal, you must glean the facts that this architect designs the architecture of a cottage only in connection with the landscape?never as a house alone. e. What does he mean by fitness and power of association? f. Name the essentials of a mountain camp. Why is not the study of the arrangement of the cabin, alone, sufficient for a successful mountain home?
LESSON IV.
Home Economics. Fourth Week in April.