COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman By Mary Connelly Kimball
Amy Brown Lyman, honored and loved, in the full fruition of her splendid powers, comes to the Presidency of the Relief Society fully trained, informed, equipped to become at once effective in her new office as counselor to President Louise Y. Robison. She loves the Relief Society work and those engaged in it. She is frank and outspoken and her president will know just where she stands, and will find in her a valuable counselor, a considerate helper, a true supporter.
The virility of stock continues generation after generation. Mrs. Lyman evidences that sturdy, dependable, calm, judicious heritage that is hers from pioneer parents. Her grandfather was a graduate of the University of Berlin; her father, John Brown, was educated for the Baptist ministry. He was one of the original pioneers, and, with Orson Pratt, he has the distinction of being the first of the Pioneer Band to see the Salt Lake Valley. His scholarship made him outstanding. For many years he was mayor of Pleasant Grove and bishop of the ward. Her mother was a lover of books, sincere, charitable, and deeply religious. The home was one of love, peace, and good will. The children were taught to do right in such a way that it seemed to them the natural thing to do.
On February 7, 1872, Amy came to gladden her parents' home at Pleasant Grove. There were ten children in the home; hence she knew the joy of growing up in a big family, with the discipline in unselfishness that comes from yielding to the wishes and welfare of others. A student from childhood, she went from the schools of Pleasant Grove to the Brigham Young University, graduating in the class of 1890. For four years thereafter she taught in the training school of her Alma Mater. Following this she taught in the public schools of Salt Lake City for two years. On September 9, 1896, she was married to Dr. Richard R. Lyman, now of the Council of the Twelve. The union has been a most happy one. Two children have brought joy to their home, Wendell and Margaret. Both have graduated from the University of Utah with degrees. Wendell has been very successful in business, and Margaret has spent years in studying the cello at home, in New York and in Paris. She is now the wife of Alexander Schreiner, one of America's leading organists and a brilliant pianist.
Amy began her church work at the age of eleven as secretary of a ward Primary. She has acted in all the offices of a ward Y. L. M. I. A. and as teacher in Sunday School. It is in the Relief Society, however, that her most outstanding public work has been done. On October 5, 1909, she was called to the General Board. On May 5, 1911, she became assistant secretary and in August, 1913, she became General Secretary. She has served as assistant manager of the Magazine since its establishment.