Work and Business Meeting (Result of Survey) Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Member of General Board I suppose that most of us remember that in the group conventions and in the Relief Society conferences, in 1925, one of our topics was the "Work and Business Meeting," and that many suggestions were made as to what could be done in this meeting. In some of the stakes we found at that time that the work part of the meeting had been almost entirely done away with, many of the stakes thinking that there was no work to be done—and the members were a little tired of sewing carpet rags and making quilts. President Williams made the statement that the work and business meeting must be kept up, and that we should make it a social as well as a service day. Last year there was also a topic discussed in the group conventions and conferences on the subject of "Accomplishments of Work and Business Meeting During the Last Year," and a questionnaire was left in each stake to be filled in and returned to the general office. There were four questions asked: 1. Is Work and Business Meeting held Monthly in each of your Wards? 2. Total Number of Articles Made. 3. Kinds of Articles Made. 4. Other Service Accomplished at this Meeting, such as Sewing for Families, etc., etc. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 267 It has been very. Gratifying to read the reports in the questionnaires. Sixty-one of the stakes reported that all wards held work and business meetings. Twenty stakes reported meetings held in some of the wards but not all, and fifteen stakes were not reported. It seems that there have been thousands and thousands of articles made in the work and business meetings, not only useful articles but some that are very ornamental—articles that will help to decorate and beautify the homes. I picked out one report which I thought might be interesting to read. I do not know which stake it is from—I just picked it up at random from the questionnaires received. Following is a list of the activities of the various wards: a shower was held for a family whose home had burned; a social was held at the home of an aged couple and there was sewing for motherless families; a family was cared for three weeks, which took two prsons each night and two each day; there were demonstrations on foods, on school lunches, and the canning of fruit, also upon how to remove spots of various kinds from different kinds of cloth, and on how to clean clothes; needy families were provided for; carpets were provided for the Church; lessons were given on the making and fitting of paper patterns; on the picking and carding of wool which was made into quilts; napkins for the sacrament service, maternity bundles, Christmas gifts and even caskets for the dead were also made! There was also cotton-picking, the earnings from which were contributed to the Church; nurses gave lectures and advice on the care of children; there was instruction and demonstrations on modern conveniences and how to fit up a kitchen with them; then there was the supervision of a concession at the state fair which brought $500. That is just one of the interesting stake reports. Not only have the stakes been working hard but they have also given public demonstrations and exhibitions. It was my privilege, along with another member of the committee, to attend one of these demonstrations—in fact, I have attended several, but this one in particular was held in a large recreation hall. The building seemed to be as large as this one and it was filled with things which had been made by the women in the work and business meetings. Each of the wards had its portion of space allotted. There were all kinds of clothing, both out of new material and old material; all kinds of cloths, fancy and crocheted and embroidered; and everything that one could think of was collected in that hall. Besides all these things there were demonstrations -on the use of the electric range, on cleaning devices of various kinds, and on electric sewing machines. After the cooking demonstration on the electric range, light refreshments were served, and altogether it was a very, very profitable day. Other stakes have s 
 had exhibitions in connection with celebrations of various kinds. One was held on March 17, when the wards brought articles so that all might see what had been done. Some of the beautiful work which was shown consisted of lamp shades, decorated candles, the polychrome work and the beautiful paper waxed flowers. I feel that one of the very necessary things that we can do and should do on the work and business meeting day is to look after the over-worked mother. I believe we can help many of these mothers who are over-burdened, who have not means to hire help, and others in communities where it is almost impossible to get the right kind of help. I will now read a list of the articles that were made during the year in the various stakes: Bonnets, bloomers, blouses, buffet sets, baskets, baby pillows, bed spreads, burial clothes, boys' suits, buttonholes, beadwork, bibs, baby pads, centerpieces, children's clothing, coats made over, clothes-pin bags, curtains, cushions, carpet rags, crochet work, candles decorated, clothes hangers, caskets, dresses, doilies, dresser scarfs, dolls and doll dresses, diapers, embroidery, flowers (paper, wax and silk), feather pillows, fireless cookers, frames, iceless refrigerators, knitting, layettes, lunch cloths, laundry bags, lamp shades, lace, serving meals, maternity bundles, made-over articles, napkins, nightgowns, pillow slips, piece quilt tops, petticoats, polychrome work, powder puffs, paper patterns, pajamas, quilts (also baby quilts), rag rugs, rompers, men's shirts, children's slips, sheets, sweaters, stocking bags, sacrament sets, sofa pillows, slippers and shoes, shawls (knitted), shoe trees, table cloths, table runners, tea towels, teddy bears, tied and dyed work, tatting, table mats, temple aprons, tray cloths, underwear, vanity cases, wall pockets, wool picked and carded, waists for boys, yokes for gowns. CHARITY FUNDS Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Member of General Board I am very happy to have the privilege of meeting and discussing with you one of the subjects of our activities which to me is the most vital—the charity fund. During the summer at the auxiliary group conventions and at all of the conventions visited by the members of the General Board, one question on the questionnaire was this: Does every L. D. S. Family in-your stake make a regular contribution to the Relief Society? The answers were rather undecided. It was a new question and you had probably not thought of that before. Generally, the percentage was pretty high, but not 100%. We would like you to try, in your ward conferences and at other times, to teach the people © eee Oe RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 269 this beautiful thought, that it is more blessed to give than to receive, that when they give for the welfare work, that when they do something to keep up this work in our organization, they are themselves receiving a blessing from God. You would be surprised, I think, after hearing Sister Lyman's report and the wonderful amount of money that we have on hand, to know some figures that I might give you today regarding how little is given into the Relief Society for the charity fund. I find in a survey that has been made that there is only about 85c a year given by each L. D. S. Family for charity, or 7c per month; that on an average a ward has $75.25 a year, or an average of $6.26 per month. I would like these figures to sink in quite deeply; 7c from an L. D. S. Family per month to the Relief Society. One of the stakes made a survey and discovered that from each ward they had a little less than $8 a month for charity. You have heard of the sewing done for motherless children, of help for families where homes have been burned. What could a ward Relief Society president do if she only received $6.26 per month, in helping to rehabilitate a family or refurnish a home? It would hardly buy in these days a pair of shoes. We have always felt that it was necessary to keep our funds separate, and yet we find that probably on account of these small contributions to the charity fund, that the general fund is used, that some wards do not have a charity fund—they put all their money into the general fund because they can draw on the general fund for charity, but they cannot draw on the charity fund for other purposes. There is quite a purpose in our minds for the charity fund not to be drawn on for anything else. There are many occasions that you may be called upon that you really do not think are necessary for the Relief Society to do, and yet you have the money, and it is called for, and you feel that you can use it and so your fund is depleted, leaving very little for welfare work. You are called upon to build a fountain, or carpet the meetinghouse, or buy a piano or sacrament set, and you take this from your general fund, and if you put all your money into the general fund, then when you need something 'for the welfare work, you have not anything on hand, where if you keep your funds separate you will always have something in reserve. Some stakes tell us they haven't any poor and haven't any need of a charity fund, that while the people in the community are not rich they are all well provided for and have no poor among them. How many of you know what may happen in a night? These are days of calamities; these are days of epidemics, and even if you do not have any great tragedy or any war or earthquake or calamity to call immediately for your relief fund, you may have a fire in your locality and have to help a family, or there may be things of which you do not know already in existence. I am reminded 270 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of a poor laboring man who became ill, and he and his family were quite proud and did not let the neighbors know that he was ill. He lost his work and so he set up a little shop at home and the neighbors thought he was shiftless. They misjudged the man. One night he died, and then the neighbors were very much overcome with their thoughtlessness and carelessness and went into the home with their small offerings. One kind neighbor went into the pantry to put a delicacy there which she had brought, and she found it bare—bare as the cupboard of childhood lore—scarceiy a thing in the house. They had not known that there was need there. Suppose that ward had had no fund to help that family? There was a funeral to pay for, there was clothing to buy for the children, there was money needed to pay on the house, there were a dozen things to do, and yet they thought they had no poor in that ward. We do not always know unless we are very diligent, unless we are very careful in our visits and unless we are awake to all things around us. We do not know the day nor the hour when we may be called upon to use this charity fund. I would like to call to your mind the first Relief Society. You are just as familiar as J am with the history of that occasion eighty-five years ago last month (March) when the Prophet Joseph called those choice women together and organized the Society and exhorted and taught them what their duties would be. And after telling them the different things that they were to do and especially that they were to look after the poor, and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, he put his hand into his pocket and he laid a $5 gold piece on the table with these words: "All I give to the poor I will give to this Society." The Prophet knew that you cannot carry on an organization of this kind without a fund and after he had given his $5, Elder John Taylor gave $2; Elder Willard Richards, who was secretary on that occasion, gave $1; Emma Smith gave $1; Sarah M. Cleveland, the first counselor in the Relief Society, gave 12'%c; Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who was the second counselor, gave 50c; and Sarah M. Kimball gave $1. There was $10.6214—the first fund in the Relief Society organization, and I believe the first beginning of a fund for organized charity in the world. Today our Relief Society, as you have been. Told by Sister Lyman, is worth close to a million dollars, all starting from that $10.62%4 donated by those persons eighty-five years ago. As we have increased in membership and increased in wealth, we have increased in well-doing. We hope the occasion won't arise when you need more and more all the time, because with your fine charity work, your constructive work, you are building up families and making them more self-supporting, but the Savior has said, "The poor ye have always with you," and we urge you to try to increase this fund and to teach the people to be liberal and to be kind and generous in their donations. It has become RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 271 something of a habit with some of us to give, probably when we had very little to give, 10c or 15c, and as time went on and our wealth increased, we have not increased the amount of our contribution, but think, "I will give just the same as I always have." Even the wealthy people have not increased their donation to the Relief Society. We do need to increase our charity fund. We do need to keep it separate from our general fund and to keep it a sacred trust fund for the particular work for which it is given, that we can claim truthfully what we have always said, "'that anyone who gives to the Relief Society for the poor may feel that that money is going to be expended for the poor." The Lord has said that pure religion, undefiled before God and the Father, is to visit the fatherless in their distress and to keep ourselves unspotted from the world. Let us remember that and let us try to live that pure religion, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 7 ' SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Clarissa S. Williams - Correspondence (Stakes Should Address Correspondence to General Office—not to Various Members of the Board): All Relief Society letters should be addressed to the office of the General Secretary, where all correspondence is answered through the secretary's office. A year ago a letter came from a stake addressed to a board member and was handed to another individual, and finally referred to me. The stake which wished the information was very much upset because the information was not forthcoming in time, whereas, if she had written direct for that information to the office, she would have had her answer almost by return mail. I am not referring to private correspondence, but to Relief Society correspondence, and I would ask you to remember that all questions on Relief Society business are answered through the secretary's office, and it is suggested that all such letters be sent there. Wheat Trust Fund and Wheat Interest: Most of the wards in the Church having a wheat trust fund have it all deposited with the Presiding Bishop's Office. There are some, however, which still hold their fund, or a portion of it, locally. Some wards report that their fund is loaned to individuals. The General Board feels. Very anxious about wheat money loaned to individuals and recommends that it be gathered in at once. There have been cases in the. Past, and we heard of one only recently, where Relief Society wheat money was loaned to individuals without proper security. We also hear of cases where individuals have the loan but neglect to pay interest. We ask that ward Relief Society officers take this matter up at once and collect all outstanding wheat accounts. It has been recommended by the General Authorities of the 
 Church, and by the General Board, that the entire wheat trust fund be deposited with the Presiding Bishop's Office, and we hope it will not be long before this is accomplished. It is the recommendation of the General Board, that the wheat interest be set aside for health and maternity work, including child welfare work. Our reports show that in some instances this money is being used for general purposes. In fifty stakes, in one or more wards, this interest is used for other purposes. We recommend that the wheat interest, even where the fund is small, be held for health work. A fund on hand is always available, and none of us know when a health problem will arise in our community. It is not recommended that the wheat interest be returned to the Presiding Bishop's Office to be added to the principal, but that it be held in the wards for use. The wheat fund does not belong to you; it does not belong to the bishop; it is a sacred trust gathered by your mothers and grandmothers for a special purpose, and in order that that purpose may be carried out and that your money need not lie useless for generations, we have been accorded the privilege of using the interest—not of re-depositing it to get more money on, but of using it and using it for the good of the women and children in your communities—not to make fences, not to buy carpets, not to fix up your Relief Society rooms, but for health purposes. Look about you and see if there are any little boys whose eyes are in such a condition that they cannot study their lessons; see if there are little cripples who are not able to walk and who by a little effort on your part might be provided with artificial limbs; see if there are little girls who are not clothed, and expectant mothers who are not being provided for as mothers should be in order to bring forth healthy offspring. These needs appeal to me. I have heard such heart-rending cases of neglect recently. It looks as if Relief Society women in any community, if their eyes are open, need not allow such conditions to exist, and upon you is placed this sacred trust. Remember that you are the mothers of the community in which you live, and that you are responsible for conditions, at least among Latter-day Saint families. I cannot understand why anyone should desire that the interest on the wheat fund should be added to the principal and kept on deposit. What is money? What did the Lord endow us with money for? Not for our own adornment, not to hoard, but to be used for those in need, and when we have some fairy money placed in our hands let us feel that that money shall be used for the purpose that it is intended. If you cannot convert your bishop or ward president, you stake presidents write to our general office just as soon as you can. There isn't a ward president in this Church who could not convert a bishop to the right idea of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 273 handling the wheat trust fund if she is converted herself and goes about it in the right way. Health Committees and Units: The General Board recommends that the women of the Relief Society continue to support the health committees which are working under the direction of the State Boards of Health in the various communities; and to support the health units which have been established. We congratulate you in what you have done in the past, in this direction, and want you to know that your efforts have been appreciated by the State Health Departments and by the Children's Bureau in Washington, D. C. Maternity Bundles: It has been reported that in one ward in a stake where charges have been made for Relief Society bundles and rental for maternity accessories, the bundles and the accessories have been generally used. Previous to this, when it seemed to be a matter of charity, the bundles and the accessories were not used to any extent. Officers and Their Positions: For convenience and efficiency in stakes the president and secretary-treasurer should reside in the same community. It is also advisable to select for stake board members women who live close enough together for stake board meetings to be held conveniently. In one of our stakes, at one time, it was decided to choose the stake board members from each of the wards; that is, to have each ward represented on the stake board. This was a very scattered stake, and as a result it was absolutely impossible for this stake to hold stake board meetings with a satisfactory representation. 'Where stake or ward officers are absent from the stake or ward for any length of time they should consult the Priesthood with regard to resigning their positions. This ruling should be observed, particularly by stake and ward presidents, upon whom great responsibility rests. Counselors are greatly handicapped in carrying on the work in the absence of the president. Relief Society Property: It is reported, time and again, that in many cases where stakes and wards are reorganized, outgoing officers do not turn over books, circulars, etc., to the new officers. The rule, as recorded in the Relief Society record book, is as follows: "All records, books, or other supplies, purchased for the use of the Society, are the property of the Society and do not belong to any individual. * * * Whenever a reorganization is effected, all supplies and records should be turned over to the new officers at once." The records of an organization are very valuable and they are not valuable to anyone except to the organization. You ought, as stake officers, at least once or twice a year, to say to the ward presidents: Take care of your books and your records, and when you retire, see that they are turned over intact to the incoming officers. 
 Class Leaders: One of the qualifications of the Relief Society stake and ward class leader is membership in the Church. The class leader should hold herself responsible for all instructions given to her group during the class period. All theological lessons and all portions of these lessons, should be presented by Church members. There is no objection to having a well-qualified nonmember of the Church present a lesson or a portion of a lesson in the literary or social service department, but even in these departments, the class leader herself should hold Church membership. Duplication in Office: It is the recommendation of the General Board that duplication of office between stake and ward Relief Society officers, be avoided as far as possible. Instances have occurred where a Relief Society woman has held simultaneously the office of stake board member and ward president. This is always unsatisfactory. Outside of the most scattered communities, where membership is small, it should never be necessary to have duplication. The stake boards should not be any larger than absolutely necessary. It is not wise to tie up so much material in the stake boards that it becomes difficult to officer the wards. I would advise you to have rather fewer stake board members than to have duplication of offices. Stakes can get along better with fewer board members than they can with duplications. If you have a ward Primary counselor as a class teacher or occupying any lesser position, her allegiance must go to the organization in which she holds the highest office, and when your union meeting or group convention comes, she goes to the Primary meetings because she holds a higher office in that organization than in the Relief Society, and the Relief Society department in which she is working will be deprived of her. Relief Society. Teachers: A recent report shows that in one of our localities many of the Relief Society visiting teachers do not attend meetings regularly. They feel that after making their visits, and making their reports, they are through for the month, and it is not necessary for them to be constant attenders atmeetings. The teachers cannot expect to be influential. In getting others to attend meeting unless they set the example themselves. It is reported that in one ward the work of the teachers was greatly improved by taking one of the older sisters and one of the younger ones together for visiting., Collection of Funds by Relief Society: The Relief Society, as an organization should not be used generally by other agencies for the collection of funds. Wherever the Relief Society is requested to do this, the matter should be referred to the Priesthood authorities for final decision. The General Board takes no part in raising funds for other agencies without the consent of the General Authorities of the Church, and the stakes and wards RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 275 should not undertake similar work without the consent and approval of the stake and ward Priesthood authorities. I think President Grant made use of the expression that the Relief' Society is not a collection agency, and his preference generally is that the Relief Society shall not take part in the collection of funds as an organization. As individuals, the members might do so, but not as an organization, unless it is especially requested by the Priesthood authorities in the stakes where you live. Charity Work With Transients: The question has been asked whether the Relief Society shouid assist non-"Miormon"' transients. Our answer is'that while non-""Mormon" transients are not the responsibility of the Relief Society, still they should not be allowed to suffer in our communities. They should be referred at once to the city and county authorities who are responsible and who in turn should give temporary relief and take steps to have the transients returned to their places of residence. In the meantime the needy should not suffer and should be given temporary care. Since our Relief Society presidents are familiar with relief work they may find it necessary to lead out, to organize a plan and to serve the city and county in the emergency. On the other hand, transients should not be made to feel that they can drop into communities and be cared for indefinitely or until they are ready to go on. They should be returned to their homes, where they are entitled to care. When communities become stricter in these matters the transient problem will not be so tense. Relief Society funds are not sufficient for our own needs and should be conserved for those for whom we feel responsible. Still, there should be no suffering in our communities. The rules on transportation which were given to each stake and ward president at our group conventions last year, are a guide in this matter.