[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Summary of Woman's Position in Newly-Enfranchised Countries]

SUMMARY OF WOMAN'S POSITION 531 no municipal government at present exists, for men or women. Iceland — Women have votes on equal terms, and it is part of the new constitution. They have had city councilors for a long time, but have no woman member. Lettonia — Men and women both got votes on equal terms in 1918. Five women have been elected to parliament, and many to city councils. Lithuania — Men and women both got votes on equal terms in 1920. Five women have been elected to parliament. Luxembourg — Women got votes on equal terms with men (at the age of twenty). They have voted twice, first in the referendum, and then in the elections. One woman is a member of parliament. Netherlands — Bill giving women votes on same terms (at twenty-five) passed in May, 1919, and received royal assent in September, 1919. One and a half million women are enfranchised. They have not voted yet, but will in 1922. They have, however, been eligible for some years, and both in 1916 and 1918 two women M.P.'s were elected;  one in each chamber. They have eighty-eight women on city councils and some aldermen (elected by men only.) Poland — Women have votes on equal terms with men, and eligibility. Rhodesia — Women got votes on equal terms in 1919, and one woman M.P. has been elected. Russia — Women got votes on equal terms during the first revolution, and several women served in parliament and in the cabinet. Sweden — Women got votes on same terms in 1918, but it will not be ratified till after the autumn elections. It will be through by February, 1921, and they will vote in the following autumn. There will be about 1,600,000 women voters. At present there are about 400 city and municipal councilors. Ukraine — Women and men got votes on equal terms in 1917. They voted in 1919, and nine women were elected to parliament. Civil service opened to both, and equal pay given. United States — Federal amendment giving votes in all states on equal terms has been passed, but is still awaiting ratification. Thirty-five states have ratified. One more is required. One woman has been a member of congress. In addition to these national suffrage victories, several other advances have been reported: Serbia has granted municipal suffrage to women. 
 Belgium has granted municipal suffrage to women. Romania has granted municipal suffrage to women. Zionists of Palestine have full equal suffrage and eligibility. The Commune of Fiume has granted full equal suffrage and eligibility. THE PIONEERS. Mary Foster Gibbs. The March Across the Plains. The long-trained wagons slowly march far out into the west, The great sun beats the heat-waves upon the twilight's breast, The buffalo tramps in rhythms rude upon the grassy plain, The Indian steals in serried ranks to guard his age-old claim. Dancing Around the Camp-fire. The wagons halt in dusty lines, then camp in circled peace. When evening's benediction falls, their heavy labors cease. The dancers sorrow. 'round the camp fire glide, forgetting toil and "All hands round," and "partners swing," renews them for the morrow. First Glimpse of the Valley. The barren valley blistering lies, edged by a lifeless sea. The lea;  mountains climb in rugged heights around the sage-green But visioned in the leader's soul, the land with honey flows. He sees the desert vales reclaimed to blossom as the rose. Fulfilment. Broad fields and orchards, cities, towns, sweep up the mountain side;  The busy home, the crowded mart line streets, tree-shaded, wide. The temple towers pierce the air, and streams enrich the sod. For Zion fills her destiny, that men may worship God James H. Anderson. Turkey signed the peace treaty with Great Britain and France on July 23. Boy Scouts in Utah, to the number of 238, had an enjoyable outing to Bryce's canyon, in Utah, in July. The Herald, of Salt Lake City, suspended publication in July, after an existence of fifty years. Universal suffrage was defeated in Japan in July, by a vote of 153 to 283. In Bolivia, in July, a revolution overthrew the existing government, and instituted a new administration. Los Angeles, California, was visited by several earthquake shocks on July 16, and again on July 26. A coal miners' strike in Illinois, in July, seriously threatened the coal supply of next winter in that section. Great Britain arranged, on July 26, for an agreement with Bolshevik Russia, which as yet gives no assurance of a treaty of peace. France sent an army against King Feisal. of Arabia, in July, the movement resulting in the French capture of Damascus. Ireland was the scene of serious conflicts in July, amount- 
 ing to civil war between the Sinn Feiner’s and the British government. School teachers will be plentiful in Utah the coming season, according to reports made in July by the school authorities. Mexico experienced several insurrectionary battles in July, with some prospect of early revolutionary troubles in that land. Minnesota experienced a tornado on July 23, in which ten lives were lost and more than 100 persons injured. By a collision of three electric cars near Scranton, Pa., in July, eighteen people were killed and over 100 others injured. The National Education Association held its annual convention in Salt Lake City, in July, and was largely attended. Ten distinct wars were raging in the old world in July, with over 2,000,000 fighting men engaged. The outlook for peace is distant. Hawaiians, of Hawaii, and the Marois, of New Zealand, in July, definitely established the identity of the two peoples as of common stock. Wool prices in Utah descended still further in July, in consequence of which many Utah woolgrowers are facing financial collapse. Southern Canada was visited by a destructive tornado in July, several people being killed and many injured, while much property was destroyed. The Anti-tobacco League began, in July, an active campaign against the sale and use of tobacco in Utah, with a prospect of greatly reducing the use of the "weed." Messrs. Cox and Roosevelt, Democratic nominees for president and vice-president, in a conference held in July, accepted President Wilson's policies on the league of nations issue.