[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Excuses Myrtle E. Reeves]

EXCUSES. By Myrtle E. Reeves. There are very few of us, perhaps, who have not found reasons to stay away from Relief Society meetings. The particular there is a reason reason. Doesn’t It can make much of difference, be one the hundred but and always one things that forms itself eventually into a real excuse.. The excuse doesn't really matter, because our particular one is just one of the many Satan carries with him constantly to be ready for any Relief Society worker who is a part of that working body which is ready to carry on Relief work as it can only be done, when all members are united. If things are running smoothly, much work can and will be accomplished, and the gospel will be spread, because a woman who is enthusiastic about Relief work and the gospel is not going to keep them to herself. So along comes Satan and throws in a tiny trouble-maker, — not a big one, remember, — because if it were a big one the woman who was thus hindered would know the reason and would recognize it for what it was. Oh, no! A little trouble-maker or excuse is much more entangling than a big one. Say that Mrs. Jones slighted Mrs. Smith at the last meeting, and while Mrs. Smith is not going to say she was slighted or treated coldly, yet she is going to stay at home and brood, and more than likely, cry over the slight. Women do, you know. She may even loose several hours' sleep trying to figure it all out. Then the reaction comes, she gets into a temper and makes up her mind that since Mrs. Jones slighted her she will show her the next time EXCUSES 517 they meet how it feels to be slighted, and also that if she has to be treated that way in Relief Society, she won't attend. Next meeting one less is ready for work, and when Mrs. Smith is asked for, some unwise sister, who has been confided in, tells all about it and so there is a new trouble and a real one, begins and goes on. Satan stands back and grins. It may be that Mrs. Jones doesn't like the president or one of the other officers personally, or perhaps, her circumstances are such that some of her sisters who have more worldly goods than she has, shows it too much and their behavior grates on her. It may be her unwise sister whom she has trusted has told her that another sister has criticized her. Or, perhaps, during our last testimony meeting, we bore our testimony early because the time was passing and others were sitting still. Then one who had nothing else to say, dissected our testimony and critized it, and made it sound just a bit ridiculous and not at all as we intended it should sound. We all know that kind of a person. Then we decide either not to give our testimony at all or to wait until the very last;  or, perchance, not to go to the next meeting at all. Satan laughs for he knows he has made one good shot. One may be a counselor and feel that the president is not quite fair in not allowing her counselor to conduct the meetings as often as we think it right. We feel just a bit timid in asking her about it and we confide in our unwise sister who tells the president in a way we would be shocked to think came from us, and so we have a little feeling toward each other and we are not free in each others company. Next we decide we are hurting the cause and ourselves by going, so we stay away. The president herself may have a way of antagonizing the sisters when she prays to be a help and comfort to them and they feel that she has a little air of aloofness, is proud, and is trying to show them who's who in this particular Relief Society and the sisters won't support her. When the president makes a suggestion the members seem to be contrary and she wonders what she can do to make them want to come, and stimulate them to work. So after a while she decides that she had better resign and let some one else try it. We all recognize every one of these little excuses and they seem in reviewing them to be a lot of miserable, contemptible ones, wholly unworthy of us, but taken personally 
 they so possess us as to crowd out the entire view of the rare, beautiful opportunities opening up before us whereby we could progress and grow to be the women God really meant us to be when he gave the organization of the Relief Society to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Imagine, if you can, what a scramble for membership there would be amongst the women of the world if an angel should appear before Congress announcing that the women of the earth were to be joined into a society to assist in preparing the earth for the early coming of Christ, to educate the children, and to be ready at any time to see the Lord. How they would work fast and furiously to rid earth of vice and crime. Oh, how privileged those millions of women would feel and how zealously they would work. Yet that is exactly the privilege we have! Satan knows that if were to sit down quietly in a happy, clean frame of mind and think things over we would come to realize that of all the women of the earth we are the most favored, and that in gratitude to God for this wonderful blessing we should feel that no task is too menial or hard for us to accomplish. We would take upon us so much to do that should one of our sisters pause long enough to raise her eyebrows or turn her head the opposite way as we came in we would know, if we noticed it at all, that she was relaxing her facial muscles or pausing to look out the window and would never dream that she intended to slight us. Even should we so forget her debt of gratitude to her heavenly Father that she should say an unkind thing about us, and we heard it, we would be too busy to take any notice except to have a passing feeling of sympathy for her. Satan is not going to let us see our true position if he can prevent it;  so he causes all these little contentions to come amongst us and we are not wise enough, or strong enough, to say we will not be in partnership with him. How long such a condition can last in our Relief Society depends upon you and me, and, perhaps, Satan. Let's make a study of him and find out for ourselves what an unreliable partner he has been in the thousands of years that have passed, and determine to dissolve the partnership that is retarding the work of the Lord. Let's work hard and fast from this instant, to make our share of the mighty chain of righteousness that will bind Satan for a thousand years and hasten the coming of our Lord.