[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Health - Personal Hygiene]

HEALTH. PERSONAL HYGIENE. Fourth Week in September. Personal Cleanliness: External: Skin, Hair, Nails. Mode of life and character of skin determine almost entirely the frequency with which bathing is necessary to keep the skin fit for the important function of eliminating body wastes. Naturally, the skin of one whose occupation induces much perspiration requires more frequent cleansing than that of one whose life is of a more sedentary nature. Ordinarily, the housewife, spending several hours a day over a cook stove, perspires more freely, and therefore requires more frequent bathing than does the woman who spends her day at office work, or work of similar nature. Some skins are so sensitive to soap and water that a daily bath is impracticable because of the dry, prickly sensation it causes. In such cases, a daily sponge in cool or tepid water is suggested. The degree in which the general health is affected by unclean hair and an unhealthy scalp is difficult to determine but it will be noticed that a rundown, unhealthy body condition is usually accompanied by stringy, depressed looking hair. A really diseased scalp is, of course, a case for a specialist, but all ordinary cases may be treated at home. Dandruff may be removed by massaging the scalp with the tips of the fingers, never scratching with the nails or with a comb. The massage should be given every day, followed by a thorough brushing of the scalp with a medium stiff brush, both for removing loosened dandruff, and for additional stimulation to the scalp. Where the scalp is very dry, a little olive oil rubbed in with the finger tips will be helpful. Tincture of green soap is good for shampooing very oily hair, but in cases of little or no surplus oil, a milder soap is suggested. Lemon juice added to the rinsing water will tend to neutralize alkali remaining in the hair from the soap used, and will leave the hair soft and fluffy. Under ordinary circumstances, a shampoo once in two weeks will be sufficient, but when the hair is exposed to much smoke and dust, a shampoo every week may be necessary. In the days of our grandmothers, finger nails were thought to be poisonous because it was noticed that infection often followed a scratching of the skin with the nails. Later, it became known that the infection was caused by bacteria lodged under the loose ends of the nails, and under the scarf skin at their base. A good nail brush of medium stiffness with plenty of soap and warm water should keep the nails 
 clean. An additional treatment of hydrogen peroxide applied by means of a little cotton on the flat end of an orange stick should be helpful. Personal Cleanliness: Internal: Mouth, Teeth, Digestive Tract. Owing to much recent agitation on the subject, laymen as well as physicians, are coming to know that the general health is greatly affected by the condition of the mouth and teeth. Rheumatism, malnutrition, indigestion, in some of their forms, are all directly traceable to the ulceration which sometimes accompanies decayed teeth, and in many cases where medicine was formerly prescribed, a trip to the dentist is now advised. Of little use are the lessons of civilization in the handling and storage of food materials, the careful and scientific preparation of dainty dishes in our kitchens, if food is to be defiled by entering the body through an unclean doorway, carrying with it bacteria and products of putrefying food particles, lodged in and about the teeth. Public school nurses, popular medical articles, and various other agencies are suggesting good mouth treatments. One which is simple and effective follows: Rinse the mouth thoroughly before and after each meal with a weak salt solution;  brush the teeth at least once a day with a medium brush, or with the finger using salt, which cleans all particles and tartar from the mouth and teeth, using an "up and down" or slightly rotary motion, giving at least thirty strokes to each section of the mouth. Tooth picks are taboo;  dental floss is advised for removing particles of food from around the teeth. In addition to its important function of preparing food for body uses, the digestive tract as a sewer, carries away undigested food materials, products of katabolism, etc. When food is allowed to collect and remain in the bowel day after day at a temperature of approximately 98.5 degrees F., the condition becomes truly appalling. Products of decomposing food — poisonous in their action on the body, are absorbed through the intestinal walls and circulated in the blood stream, causing headache, dizziness, nausea, and many other ills. The skin, trying to do the work of the clogged sewer, is overworked, and breaks out in eruptions of various kinds. To avoid constipation, drink large quantities of water, especially between meals;  eat at regular intervals meals consisting of (a) coarse breads;  (b) vegetables, particularly those containing large quantities of cellulose, e.g. string beans, asparagus, celery;  (c) fresh fruits;  (d) plenty of nuts, raisins, figs and dates;  take plenty of exercise in the sunshine and open air. Before taking drugs, try mineral oil or agar-agar as cures for constipation;  the former acts a lubricant, the latter as a mechanical irritant increasing the peristaltic action of the bowel. Living Habits: Body Nourishment;  Work, Exercise, Recreation, Rest. In general, the suggestions given in a previous lesson for feeding children apply to adults. After the growing period, however, the amount of protein food per pound body weight decreases. Often in actual dietaries, the amount is increased, men, and women, too, eating heavily of meat two or three times a day. A quarter pound of meat a day is considered sufficient for persons not engaged in hard, manual labor;  bread, butter, milk, eggs, cereals, vegetables, and fruit making up the remainder of the day's dietary. Regularity of meals and unhurried eating cannot be too strongly urged since the digestive system requires as careful treatment as any other delicately adjusted machine. Regular exercise prevents and cures other bodily ills besides constipation. All ordinary types of work may be made to serve the purpose of exercise, i.e., bodily health and development, provided one is careful to maintain correct body posture, breathe deeply, and vary movement as much as possible in order to bring various muscle systems into action. Jean Valjean as a galley slave requesting to change position in rowing so as to develop both arms equally, is an example to all who find little or no time for physical exercise as such. As all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, so is John made a dull man and Jane a dull woman;  each day's plans, therefore, should include time for recreation and rest. Let us take the literal meaning of recreation — a making new of tired brain, muscles, and nerves by such methods of enjoyment as do not entail effort great enough to justify the term "pleasure exertion" so aptly applied to a pleasure excursion "Josiah Allen's wife" described in her humorous writings. Rest and sleep may be synonymous, but it is wise to plan a few minutes relaxation in a busy day before the coming of night with its relief of sleep. Occasionally, we see a genius who can live and work effectively year after year, taking only five or six hours sleep in the twenty-four, but the average adult requires seven or eight hours. 
 1. What may determine the frequency with which cleansing baths are taken? 2. Outline a treatment for dandruff. Discuss the shampoo. 3. Wherein is the danger from finger nail wounds? Describe methods of keeping nails clean. 4. What are some of the dangers from unclean mouth and teeth? 5. Outline a simple method of keeping mouth and teeth clean. 6. Mention some bad effects of allowing the bowel to become clogged. 7. What course may be taken to avoid constipation? 8. Mention simple non-medical treatments for constipation. 9. What difference is found between the protein requirement of children and adults? 10. What should the daily diet of an average adult contain? 11. Of what value is physical exercise? How may the day's work be made to serve as exercise? 12. What is the real meaning of "recreation"? 13. How much sleep does the average adult require? MY THANKS. Addie S. Pace. I thank thee, Lord, for the morning, With its freshness and hopes born anew. For holy ambitions returning For some work divine to do. I thank thee. Lord, for the noon-tide, With its heat and arduous strife;  That I find in endeavor a foretaste Of the new and eternal life. I thank thee. Lord, for the evening. With its rest and quietude. For the security felt in the shadow Of thy perfect and sweet solitude. I The Relief Society Magazine Office has on hand the following I bound volumes of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE,