[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson II - Book of Mormon Bible Testimony - That Day When t]

GUIDE LESSONS. LESSON II. BOOK OF MORMON— BIBLE TESTIMONY. Second Week in September. THAT DAY WHEN THE BOOK SHOULD COME FORTH. Text: "Biblical World";  Isaiah 29:17, 18;  "Millennial Star," Vol. 15, page 788. Aim or central truth — God's purposes are accomplished in 
 conformity to law and order and through the agency of his servants. In our last lesson eight propositions were formulated, but only the first five were considered. In this lesson the remainder of propositions six, seven, and eight, will form the basis for the discussion. Proposition six asserts that since its dedication by Elder Orson Hyde, in the year 1841, the Holy Land has been, and still is, preparing for the reception of dispersed Israel. At the time of Elder Hyde's visit, there were only ten thousand Jews in all Palestine;  in 1895, this number had increased to twenty-five thousand;  in 1900, there were one hundred thousand. ("Biblical World.") And early in January, of this year, it was announced by the Zionist organization of America, in behalf of Dr. Jerzy Rosenblatt, a member of the Polish diet, that one hundred Jewish families, averaging five persons to a family, were then ready to emigrate from Poland to Palestine. It was further stated that in Lodz alone 2,000,000 rubles had been subscribed for industrial undertakings in Palestine. Anent the foregoing, the "Deseret News," in its issue of January 26, of this year, had the following to say: The Jews and Their Real Fatherland. There is an economical movement in progress on the other side of the water that promises to become a feature of special moment in current history. It Is an exodus of Jews from Poland and adjacent countries toward Palestine in a wave of such proportions and momentum as to sweep away all barriers opposed to it. Already the news has reached, it would seem, the remotest quarters of the earth that the Holy Land has been emphatically redeemed by the British from the demoralization obtaining under Turkish mis-rule for 500 years, and rehabilitation is now progressing under Christian rule at a marvelous pace. To a people like Polish and Russian speaking Jews who for centuries have felt the heel of the oppressor on their necks, and have suffered the horrors of blood, lust, robbery, and rapine, for racial and religious reasons, this opening of the gates of opportunity for escape into the land of ancestral promise, the country where the Hebrew people saw their birth as a nation 3,000 years ago, and whose traditional memories are welded into their racial existence, has proven too alluring to be resisted. Like a prairie fire, the spirit of another exodus is sweeping over central Europe, and to many a Jew it seems like a divine call to strike their tents, to flee from this second land of Egypt to the land of Canaan which the British are remolding into what is likely to become once more "a land flowing with milk and honey." The descendants of Richard the Lion-hearted have reconstructed the great aqueduct built by Pontius Pilate from Hebron to Jerusalem;  the city of David is cleaned and placed in a sanitary condition;  telephones, electric lights, electric cars and other valuable public utilities are being installed, it is proposed to built a conduit from the Mediterranean, under the Jordan valley, divide the foot of the Sea of Tiberias for power purposes, roads are being built, the country ridded of bandits, schools and higher institutions established, agriculture is being taught industries introduced, freedom of worship guaranteed;  and last, but by no means least, an American newspaper man with full publishing equipment and staff of reporters, is said to be enroute to Jerusalem to publish the "Jerusalem News," in English, and promising to "print the news and the truth about it." Truly a grand transformation is going on in the Holy Land, a change that will command increasing attention! While political events have combined in these later years to bring about the political freedom of Palestine and her people, until men's hope runs high in the breast of every son of Judah because of the declaration which the British government has made, promising him to build up a national home for his people in Palestine, other factors, physical in their nature, have been busy redeeming the desert and waste places until today Lebanon has been turned into a fruitful field and a fruitful field is certainly esteemed as a forest, as was foreseen by Isaiah. "And in that day should the Book come forth." Chief among these physical features is the return of the rain and dew as was promised by Elder Hyde in his prayer of dedication. The following disinterested testimony in this connection will be interesting: I see manifest signs and tokens that the Holy Land is preparing for the people, and that the people are preparing for the Holy Land. If I turn to Palestine. I perceive "indications" the most distinct that God is returning to water its desolate places, and clothe its mountains once more with beauty and fragrance. The clouds are again dropping fatness upon its desert places, and many of Its wildernesses are beginning to blossom in promise that they shall bloom in due time like the rose. I know not whether you are aware of the fact, but it is one that is fully authenticated, that the "latter rain" returned last year (1853) to Mount Zion — a rain that has been withheld, so far as our information goes, ever since the dispersion of the people. And he who has brought back the "latter rain" in its season, will also give the "former rain" in its season. • * * There is another fact which, though small In itself, is not a less striking one, the well of Erogel (or Jehoshaphat) (Joe's well), supplies the little stream that waters the once blooming vale of Jehoshaphat. That well, in Israel's balmy days of plenty and of peace, used to overflow every year, and its overflow fed the streams that, diverted into various channels and gathered into reservoirs prepared for the purpose, provided a supply of water for each season, and so the valley was made to bloom as the garden of the Lord. But on account of the wickedness of the people, the supply of water from that well was long diminished. For centuries the well of Enrogel has, it is supposed, 
 overflowed but once in the four or five years;  but during the last four years, (1850, or nine years after the dedicatory prayer was offered), since Christianity has been shedding its light on Mount Zion, and the first fruits of Israel have been gathering in, the well has overflowed year by year again. The little stream has trickled along its course annually, with its sweet silvery music;  the various reservoirs and tanks have been replenished;  and the vale of Jehoshaphat is beginning again to blush with the vine and to wave with the cedar. (Rev. Hugh Stowell, and Hon. Canon of Chester in the "Scottish Presbyterian Magazine," "Millennial Star," Vol. 15, page 788.) I arrived from India a few days since from the eastern continent. I stopped at Jappa for nearly the whole winter. For my part, I was well pleased with the country of Palestine. It is certainly a land of the most wonderful resources, with a delightful climate producing everything. If properly cultivated, it will produce from two to three crops a year. They have grain, fruits and vegetables all the year round. In fact, I never was in such a country before. I have seen good country in England and America, but none to compare with Palestine. Its fruitfulness is uncommon and the climate is the most delightful. Even in winter I did not see the least sign of frost, and vegetables of every sort were growing in the gardens. It is a fact that the rain and dew were restored recently. In 1853, the "early" and "latter" rains were restored to the astonishment of the natives. (Louis VanBuren in a currant periodical, November 14, 1867.) The British government has made a Jew, Sir Herbert Samuel, high commissioner of Palestine. We quote from the Boston "Transcript," June 14, 1920: To Reclaim the Holy Land. Nathan Straus, of New York, Supreme Court Justice Brandeis, and Rabbi S. S. Wise, of New York, are sailing for Europe on the S. S. Lapland, enroute to Palestine for a visit of inspection. London, June 14. — The general principles which will be followed by the new administration in Palestine were announced yesterday by Sir Herbert Samuel, high commissioner for Palestine. Sir Herbert said: "Complete religious liberty will be maintained in Palestine. Places sacred to the great religions will remain in control of the adherents of those religions. Civilian administration for the country will be established immediately. The higher ranks will consist of British officials of ability and experience. The other ranks will be open to the local population, irrespective of creed. Order will be firmly enforced. The economic development of the country will be actively promoted." In accordance with the decision of the Allied and associated powers, measures will be adopted to reconstruct the Jewish National Home in Palestine. The yearnings of the Jewish people for two thousand years, of which the modern Zionist movement is the latest expression, will at last be realized. The steps taken to this end will be consistent with the scrupulous respect for the rights of the present non-Jewish inhabitants. The country has room for a larger population than it now contains, and Palestine, properly provided with roads, railways, harbors, and electric power, with the soil more highly cultivated, the waste lands reclaimed, forests planted and malaria extirpated, with town and village industries encouraged, can maintain a large additional population, not only without hurt, but, on the contrary, with much advantage to the present inhabitants. Immigration of the character that is needed will be admitted into the country in proportion as its development allows employment to be found. Above all, educational and spiritual influences will be fostered in the hope that once more there may radiate from the Holy Land the moral forces of service to mankind. These are the purposes which, under superintendence of the League of Nations, the British government in the exercise of its mandate for Palestine will seek to promote. It is interesting to note, in this connection, that ten years ago, the Rothschilds sent an agent to the Agricultural College of Logan to study irrigation under Dr. John A. Widtsoe;  and later Dr. Widtsoe's book on "Irrigation" was translated into French and Arabian for the use of the peoples, both of Palestine and Egypt, and forms the basic study for those distant lands in reclaiming the ancient wilderness. Just this month, July, two visitors from Palestine visited Dr. Widtsoe and secured permission to publish his book in modern Hebrew. "Out of Zion shall go forth the law" to redeem Jerusalem. In conclusion it might be asked what are we going to do with this testimony? It is more than coincidence. Who would attempt a scientific explanation? It is nothing short of the literal fulfilment of ancient prophecy, the age of miracles come again. In that day when these things should come to pass another very important thing should happen. "And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness." If the "Book of Mormon" is not the "Book," then we must await its coming which cannot be for long, else the ancient prophecy has no place in the "Book of Truth." QUESTIONS. 1. What are the eight propositions laid down in the former lesson? 1. Why do we say that Jerusalem is the fatherland of the Jews? 3. What is the climate of Palestine? 4. What are the resources of Palestine? 5. Why do the inhabitants of Palestine need to practice irrigation? 6. What do you know of the science of irrigation? 7. Who is Sir Herbert Samuels?