[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Sacred Vestments of Ancient People Susa Young Gates]

Sacred Vestments of Ancient People Susa Young Gates. From the time when people first began to wear clothing, men have made for themselves separate vestments for religious purposes. Moderns may question or even ridicule this custom. Americans, with their growing contempt for all symbolism and religious observances, with their worship of the commonplace and their scorn for tradition and ceremonials, are apt to underestimate the value of such symbolic customs as have been common to all ancient people Anything which is sacred is set apart, and the human mind is so constituted that unless things are set apart by the mind and by the body from the ordinary and everyday observances, we should loose all vestige of reverence and forget there was anything sacred in the world. The child regards his Sabbath raiment as a very part of the Sabbath day worship, and rightly so, for the symbolism of the unusual clothing worn on the Sabbath-day and on holidays serves a wider purpose than thoughtless people realize. Houses, vessels, and vestments must be separated from those in common use, if they are to represent to the human mind a superior Being and a divine worship of that Being. It is with this thought in mind that all the peoples of the earth have arranged special clothing for those who minister in religious ordinances. The Egyptians, the Babylonians, the Chinese, and East Indians, all carry these customs to the utmost limit. Even today, in the Oriental nations, this custom still prevails. While the Catholic priests and the Church of England clothe their bishops and priests in gorgeous regalia. The clothing of modern kings and queens is a survival of this custom. The Lord himself taught Moses the psychological value of buildings, vessels, and clothing, which were to be used only for sacred purposes and to be worn by men when in the service of the sacred house. Let us look into the pages of the Pentateuch and discover there what the Lord had to say on these matters. During the forty days that Moses was on the Mount he wrote out the most minute instructions, through the revelations of the Lord, for the building and equipment of his holy house and for the clothing of the priests who were to administer therein. In the accounts given us by Moses in Exodus and SACRED VESTMENTS OF ANCIENT PEOPLE 508 Leviticus there are extremely detailed accounts of the clothing to be worn, especially of the outer garments, with which Aaron and his sons were to be clothed. It will be noted that not much description is given of the sacred inner garments, but the outer robe which is to cover these garments from the gaze of the multitude, is very minutely described. The symbolism of the ephod and the embroidered robe which is to cover the linen robe and garments, is both simple and beautiful. Each tribe was represented in the Jewels of the Crown which covered the linen bonnet and which adored the breastplate and ephod. On two onyx stones were engraven the names of the Tribes of Israel, six on one stone and six on another. These two stones were worn upon the shoulders as a sort of buckle fastening the chains of pure gold which held up the breastplate. In the ephod, or outer robe, which was made of gold, of blue, of purple, of scarlet, and of fine twined linen, were four rows of stones. A sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle, on the first row. The second row contained an emerald, a saphire, and a diamond. The third row, a ligure, an agate, and amethyst;  while the fourth row was set with a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. These twelve stones were engraved with the names of the twelve tribes of Israel and whenever Aaron put the breastplate and ephod upon his shoulders he represented symbolically the twelve tribes of Israel, as he appeared in the Holy Place. In the center of the breastplate was the  and Thummim, which instrument gave out upon certain occasions the judgment of the Lord and his revelations to Moses and Aaron. The ephod was a most magnificent robe of blue. It was woven all in one garment with an opening through which to insert the head of Aaron. Upon the hem of the ephod was embroidered pomegranates in rich, blue, purple, and scarlet threads. The pomegranate flower is one of the most gorgeous blossoms of the Orient. As a fringe to the garment there were tiny golden bells whose musical tinkle was heard by the priests without when Aaron went into the Holy Place to minister. The white linen bonnet worn by Aaron and the priests was covered with a golden crown. Across the piece that encircled the forehead was engraved "Holiness to the Lord." This symbolic crown constituted Aaron and the high priests who followed him, the vicarious minister for the people, making oh him a symbolic vice gerent of the Lord, thus typifying in a sense the office of the Savior who bears upon his shoulders, as we are taught by Paul, the sins of the world. The coat of fine linen, the miter of fine linen, and the girdle 
 of fine linen, and the linen breeches, or garments, which were worn by Aaron and his sons, were covered, as we have noted, with outer colored robes richly embroidered and decorated as a symbol of the glory of the Lord. We are taught also (Exodus, chap. 39, Lev., chap. 8), that Aaron and his sons were taken by Moses in the door of the tabernacle and were washed with water, anointed with oil, and then clothed with the garments, coats, girdles, and bonnets, after which the anointing oil was poured upon the altar and all their garments were sprinkled with the oil as a symbol and type. It is surprising to note the many references in the scriptures to the garments and secret, or sacred, clothing, as note the following references: Chapter 28, Exodus, verses 2-4: Aaron and his sons to wear holy garments and robes. Chapter 28, Exodus, verses 31-34: Details of construction of robes. Chapter 29, Exodus, verse 5: Instructions concerning wearing these garments, or robes. Chapter 31, Exodus, verse 10: Robes consecrated for ministry of Aaron and his sons. Chapter 39, Exodus, verse 1: Holy garments for Aaron, in the Holy Place. Chapter 19, Leviticus, verse 19: Garments of mingled materials not to be worn. • Chapter 8, Numbers, verse 19: The priests enjoined to wash their clothes. Chapter 1, Chron., verse 27: David clothed in robe of fine linen. Chapter 4, Nehemiah, verse 25: Put of sacred clothing for washing only. Chapter 9, Ecclesiastes, verse 8: "Let thy garments be always white." Chapter 22, Isaiah, verse 21: Messiah clothed with a robe and girdle. Chapter 52, Isaiah, verse 1: "Put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem." Chapter 61, Isaiah, verse 10: "Garments of Salvation";  "Robe of Righteousness." Chapter 5, Daniel, verse 7: Significance in color of clothing. White Chapteras snow. 7, Daniel, verse 9: "Ancient of Days";  garment Chapter 22, Matthew, verse 11: Those without "wedding garment" cast out. SACRED VESTMENTS OF ANCIENT People Soft Chapter 5, Mark, verse 18: Christ's clothing conveyed power of healing. Chapter 24, Luke, verse 4: Two angels in shining garments. Chapter 3, Rev.., verses 4-5: Garments not defiled;  given white raiment, etc. Chapter 7, Rev., verse 9: A multitude clothed in white robes. Chapter 6, Rev., verse 11: White robes given to the martyred saints. Chapter 7, Rev., verses 13-15: The redeemed arrayed in white roles. Chapter 15, Rev., verse 6: Seven angels clothed in pure and white linen. Chapter 16, Rev., verse 15: "Blessed is he that watchcth, and keepeth his garments." Chapter 19, Rev., verse 14: Heaven's armies clothed in fine linen, pure and white. We find the ancient writings of the Greeks, Egyptians, and Babylonians full of references to the sacred vestments worn by their priests. In the "Jewish Encyclopedia," in the article on Nimrod, we are told that when Noah was surprised by his sons that Ham stole the garments given to his father, Adam, and that when Nimrod, who received the garments from his father, Cush, (who was Ham's son), Nimrod could command the beasts of the field and every living thing to obey him through the power upon him while thus clothed. We also learn from the same "Jewish Encyclopedia" in the article on dress that the first garments worn were made of the skins of animals with an apron of leaves. Afterwards the garments was made of linen. In the "Encyclopedia Britannica," we find a reference in the article on Baptism concerning the Christian church directly after the crucifixion: "The Montavists in Africa believed in baptism for the dead. Justin Martyr says, 90 A. D. : 'Candidates for baptism fasted for one or two days as would their sponsors. The candidates stepped into the font quite naked, bishops, priests, and deacons officiated. After the candidate came out of the water he was breathed upon to exercise devils. He was given symbolically milk, honey, and salt. He was touched upon the arms, lips, and nose with spittle, accompanied by a ceremony of words. He was anointed with oil, then he was clothed in a white robe, and was given a new name." Garments and robes have formed the sacred part of the ceremonial belongings for priesthood office from the earliest 
 days to the present time. All churches, especially the Catholic and Episcopalian religions, retain the altered and changed forms of clothing for their priesthood. Said a Catholic sister dressed as she was in her heavy woolen black veil and robe, with her white starched bonnet over her perspiring brow, when a "Mormon" woman asked her how she could wear such unsuitable clothing in the heat of the summer months: "I, madam? I wear these garments by the grace of God." The priesthood of other churches consider it a great privilege and honor to wear the special clothing designed for such purposes, but the Latter-day Saints, who are all practically privileged, both men and women, to be partakers in the holy ordinances which are signalized and symbolized by the garments of the priesthood, these Latter-day Saints sometimes permit themselves to feel unwilling, and at times, resentful, with the privilege and honor thus bestowed upon them. Young people should be encouraged to study this subject so that their minds could grasp the symbolism of what they do and what they wear in sacred and holy places. A KINDLY DEED. Mrs. Ida Romney Alldredge. A kindly deed seems a little thing, As we trudge along life's way. But little we guess the hearts it cheers. Or the cares it drives away. No need of the unkind deed have we. For life brings plenty of tears, But oh, for the simple gifts of love That banish all care and fears. One generous act, or a loving thought, If sent by a friendly hand. Will oft-times bring more joy and cheer Than will gold at our command. For many a life is warped in youth For lack of a kindness shown;  And many a heart is crushed and sad For the kind deed left undone. Mesa, Arizona.