[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | March | Issue: 13 | Title: EXPOSITION. | Author: Unknown]

EXPOSITION.

	TRUE art is creation and that which sug-
gests the Creator's work in its perfection has
a nearness to Heaven in its enjoyment.
	It was said by Michael Angelo that "the
true mission of art was to raise the soul
from earth to Heaven." Surely these 
words were exemplified at the World's 
Columbian Exposition of 1893. Never was
fairer picture presented to wondering gaze,
than that of the White City in its complete-
ness.
	I remember as a young girl, having a
very vivid dream; pictured in the Western
sky, above the blossoming orchard of my
childhood's home, was what I concieved to
be the New Jerusalem. The buildings
seemed to be constructed of marble, of that
soft tone of white, called ivory; and each
tower and cornice and pinnacle, were edged
with gold, as though a setting sun, which
seemed to flood the air as with a golden
mist, had touched them with its Midas
finger. The city sat upon the shores of a 
shimmering blue sea, and the streets were
mostly water-ways of "Pure gold, like un-
to clear glass." I recall to mind how on
awakening in the morning I ran eagerly to
the door and shading my eyes with my
hands, gazed out above the blossoms of
peach and apple trees, to the bright blue
sky, seeking in vain for a trace of the
night's beauteous vision. Never could I
forget the glory of those classic columns and
slender, graceful pinnacles, and often have
I wished for the art which could transfer to
canvass a faint idea of its most wondrous
loveliness. One day last Summer from the
upper deck of the steamer "Whaleback"
that beauteous vision burst again upon my
enraptured gaze. There were the white
walls of my templed city; there the shim-
mering sea turned all to blue and gold by
the lingering rays of the "God of Day,"
who lovingly touched each tower and top,
that art had left ungilded: There the broad
streets and water-ways the glorious groups
of statuary—the classic pillars and flowery
tracery of gothic windows—the feathery
palms, the gushing fountains, the fragrance
of rarest blossoms, the city in its beauty and
completeness; and the blue waters girdling
and intersecting it: my dream at last a
glorious reality! And I a favored one, to
wander mid its beauties and wonders. In-
voluntarily I loosened the lace about my 
throat, for my emotions gave me a feeling
of rapture almost to suffocation, flooding
my soul with joy unspeakable. Many
times I saw the White City from other
vantage ground, but never again with those
sensations: From all other points of view,
while it was beautiful, it did not give me
the same exquisite picture, which was a 
memory realized.
	I am leading up to my subject slowly,
even as I traversed with lingering feet the
way, to where already I saw the beautiful
"Martiny" statue of "Fame," crowning 
the central dome of that magnificent

[Column 2]
Palace of Art. The figure is airy, beauti-
ful; and seems almost to take wing: The
drapery, wind-blown closely to the figure,
accentuating its exquisite contours. A 
noble flight of steps flanked by sculptured
lions leads you to the portal, overshadowed
by graceful porticos, supported on
Corinthian columns. As  I entered the
main hall or rotunda, a scene of bewilder-
ing beauty, of graceful and noble art, in
bronze and marble, met my gaze; and
starting tears obscured for a moment the
scene. I seemed unable to regain myself;
I was in an enchanted world: The people
who thronged the hall were as nothing. I 
stood as if alone amid moving mass.
Through door-ways I caught glimpses of
wondrous tints and dreams of color from
almost breathing canvases.
	But almost the first work that caught by
eyes and there they lingered oft and lov-
ingly, was the bronze group of "Dickens
and Little Nell." It was a noble poem in
bronze, easily read by those who are
familiar with the works of the wondrous
writer, who created the characters of
"Nell" and "Florence Dombey," "Little
Joe" and the host of others. Standing at
Dickens knee, Nell looks lovingly up to
the master as though saying again, "God
bless him, God bless us both."
	I think I first admire the beauty and
per[---]t proportions of an object th[-]n the
power exemplified in the mental and
physical training required to bring it to so
perfect a state of excellence; yet I do not
pretend to know its excellence, only the 
artist whose many trials have wrought its
perfectness, can know that. I can only
judge of that excellence by the faithfulness
of its resemblance and the story written in
its lines and contours.
	How can one look upon the marvelous
beauty of the famous "Dore" vase, with-
out a feeling of awe, for the physical and
mental power employed to bring such per-
fection of form and beauty into shape,
where-with to delight your sense of the
beautiful. The bewildering myriad of
flowers and forms, all bearing to the one
object, the decoration and embellishment of
the original classic shape, and the beautiful
thought underlying the whole. Six months
were required to model it in clay, how many
to design it I know not; but surely it is a 
"thing of beauty," and let us hope it will
"be a joy forever." The "Dore" vase is
not, however, in the Art Palace but in the
French Department of the Liberal Arts
Building, where I also found Susse Freres,
"Defence Of The Flag," an intensely ef-
fective group in bronze; soldiers surround-
ing the colors; fourteen figures and one
cannon, and fallen horse, grouped naturally
and artistically with fine effect of power, 
and the heroic purpose, to die rather than
relinquish their flag.
	Thomas Ball's bronze statuette of "Paul
Revere" is one of the gems in the rotunda
of the Art Palace. The artist has caught
the very motion of the horse, and the horse 
seems to have caught the inspiration of the
man upon his back, who glows and radiates


[Column 1]
liberty, from the foot in stirrup to the hand
on rein, and glint of the fearless eye.
	“The Signal of Peace,” a bronze
equestrienne statue, was full of dignity and
such repose and grace, as comes from no
drawing room training. A Sioux warrior
on his pony; the Indian nude save for moc-
casins and the war feathers crowning his
head and falling in a straight line down his
back, the right hand grasping his spear is
held up as the signal of peace, the left holds
the horse hair rope fastened to the lower
jaw of the pony. The piece as a whole
struck me with its dignity and naturalness,
as being a truthful portraiture of a race fast
dying out. The modelling was perfect;
the expression and pose of both rider and
pony excellent.
	It will, hereafter be one of the adorn-
ments of the beautiful “Lincoln Park,” at
Chicago having been presented to the park
commissioners by Judge Lambert Tree—
who acquired the ownership of it during
the “Fair.”
	The bronze collosal statue of “Wahing-
ton,” another of Thomas Ball’s pieces;
Bartlett’s “Ghost Dance,” a plaster study
of nude Indians, strong and fine; a marble
“Lady Godiva,” by Caroline Brooks, was
an exquisite thing. Daniel French’s,
“The Angel of Death and the Sculptor”
tells a great truth, and one could not pass it
easily. “Pereat,” a group of two figures
in marble, very beautiful in pose and exe-
cution, especially in effect of drapery; but
I could not read the story the marble had to
tell. A bronze “Ishmael” as he strings his
bow, which is exceedingly well posed and
very effective: “Michael Angelo,” as the
boy of thirteen, with leather apron over
elaborate fifteenth century costume, mallet
in hand, chiseling a head in marble, the
stamp of genius, even at that age, plainly
seen upon his face. “The Angel of the
Resurrection,” “A Monk Reading,”
“Pompeian Water Girl,” graceful and
artistic; “Love knows no Caste,” a
beautiful drawing-room group and a pretty
tale of love, in marble; “Romeo and
Juliet,” that ever interesting tale of lovers.
This represents the awakening Juliet to
find her lover dead at her side. Dressler’s
“Girl Trying on her Sandal,” this subject
I found in both marble and oil. The
former I liked best, the position was so
natural and the chiselling of hand and foot
and sandal and string, exquisite.
Houdon’s “Voltaire,” representing him as
an old man seated in an armchair, such a
wide awake old man he was too, so sharp
and crafty looking, but dignified withal, a
very striking piece. “Diana” with bow,
beautifully posed. “A Fish Rarely To Be
Met With” was a striking group, represent-
ing a fisherman, and mermaid caught in
his net, curiosity and fear on her face,
astonishmeut on his. “Domestic Industry”
in oak wood, a woman with distaff
beautifully carved, so fine and soft in grain
and color, it looked like carved ivory.
	The “Sage of Concord” tells us “to
listen to the critics when our hearts are
touched by genius. “It was not painted
for them but for you, and such as had eyes
capable of being touched by simplicity and
lofty emotions.” To be sure the critics
ha[-]e their uses, but, knowing too much
they suffer the usual penalty of omniscience
“ennui.”
	 My first impressions were the harmonious
whole, of form and color, and it was actual
work to “get down” to study (pardon the
phrase) of separate schools or pictures.

[Column 2] 
	Of the nearly three thousand paintings
exhibited by the United States alone. where
shall I begin with my impressions. I am
frightened at the magnitude of the subject
How will it be possible to condense it. I
may have the effect that “Grant had on
Hopkins” and make you, who were not at
the Fair, glad you were’nt, and not anxious
to go to the next; for one must grow en-
thusiastic or cynical over what they saw,
and I prefer to be classed with the former,
even though I weary you. To begin, we
Americans ought to be justly proud that we
lead the World in water color painting, aud
we have such exquisite specimens as Abbey’s
“Measure for Measure,” Cortello’s “Gates
of Justice, Cairo,” “In the Harbor,” sun-
light effect, “Fields in Early Spring,”
“Roman Maiden” and the “Sea Witch,” a
collection of over two hundred, in fact, to
take your choice from. When we think of
the masterly stroke that must make a per-
fect picture in water color, we must feel
proud of this collection. In oil, one can
paint over and mark out; in water color,
if one false stroke is made, it must stay.
	It is said and truly I think, that
American art is refined, healthy and genuine,
though we find some canvases that I
question as such; notably “The Flagellants”
by Marr, which one could not easily pass,
yet it created in me a feeling of horror and
repulsion; that fanaticism could ever have
reached the point, where self inflicted tor-
ture could be construed into religion, much
less Christianity; or that the human heart
could conceive the cruelty, of making a
young, lovely and devoted daughter, drink
human blood, to save a dear father’s life,
as pictured by Julian Story in “Mlle. De
Sombruiell” I question whether it is
worth so many feet of canvas and waste of
colors to depict such horrors for the public
gaze. No matter how true the episode, how
faultless the drawing and grouping, nor
rich the coloring: the beauty or truth of
these are lost in the horror and disgust for
the idea portrayed, and I turn with relief
and gaze with delight on such gems as
Blashfield’s “Christmas Bells.”
	There is a power and breeziness about
his work that is most inspiring and refresh-
ing; and he has fairly caught the true
principle of art, which is not to copy or
minutely imitate nature, but to render the
impression and suggest its characteristics.
“Christmas Bells” is such a pure, artistical-
ly refined, picture; it impresses you with its
joyousness. You don’t want to dissect it,
nor think how it is painted; only to gaze
and enjoy its completeness. The work is so
well done you feel quite as though it could
have been no work to paint it; but that the
thought or inspiration was breathed upon
the canvas and it grew as the flowers grow.
There is no “Impressionism” here. The
colors are so beautifully blended in the
drapery and wings of the angels, as to
suggest the faintest rainbow hues, with the
glow of early dawn upon them. Light!
dainty, delicious light! The figures sway-
ing with the bells seem almost to swing out-
side the frame; and the song they sing to
me—is:
		“Ring out the old, ring in the new,
		Ring out the false, ring in the true.”
	The picture is perfect in detail, nothing
about it is slighted; from the startled
doves to the green bronze bells all is in
unison with the scheme of color. It is said
of Blashfield that he may one day take the
place left vacant by Dore, so great is his

[Column 3]
promise. Another of his, “The Angel
With the Flaming Sword” is a wonderful
picture. The artist must have approached
his subject with a truly devout spirit. The
figure seems to stand as though it were
adamant, with a calm majesty, the fixed
purpose, written in every line. A faithful
servant executing the just sentence of the
Master, yet with sorrow that it was neces-
sary; and the mixture of sorrow and
justice on his face, produces a picture of rare
religious feeling. The effect of light
radiating from the flaming sword is wonder-
fully good. The wings have the inter-
mingled peacock hues, which, with the blue
and orange drapery, relieve what would
otherwise be a sombre effect.
	A pretty landscape by Marr called
"Summer Afternoon" is a fine example of
sunlight flickering through the leaves of
trees.
	“The Celestial Choir,” another of those
angelic pictures I delight in, by J. H. Witt.
Five angels flying toward you in a sky of
semi-transparent blue, the foremost one
with widespread arms and wings which
catch the light, seem to be singing that
hymn “Glory to God in the Highest,” the
other angels following with lutes and
golden trumpets. The color tone, that 
white light that gives the effect of airy
lightness. The innocent joy on the faces
seems to pervade the picture. I could but 
wonder how the artist caught the perfect
poise of the flying figures, they were so
exquisitely graceful.
	One more and I must hasten on to other
departments. Moran’s “Grand Canyon of
the Yellowstone.” This artist gives us
the grand scenery of our own country in so
graphic and beautiful a light, as to carry us
to the spot. You feel that it is nature; and
in his portrayal of height and depth, he
gives you almost the sense of awe you feel
in the presence of nature itself.
	In the Austrian department, I found an
exquisite little statuette “Old Vienna
Waltz.” The poise of the couple, just on
the very point of turning in the dreamy
waltz; the costumes those of 1830, wrought
with such care and skill, not even the pat-
tern of lace ruffle on the lady’s gown
omitted. In height it was not more than
nine inches.
	Otto Jarl’s “Creeping Tiger” was
wonderfully realistic. There were many
noble pictures in the Austrian department
that impressed me, but I only mention one
or two. “The Roman Ruins in
Schoenbrunn,” lent by his Majesty the
Emperor, is magnificent in conception,
perspective and detail; Rudolph Bacher’s
“Mater Dolorosa,” also lent by the
Emperor; This was the picture that touched
my heart most deeply. The Holy Mother
is seated with the crown of thorns lying in
her lap, her finger and thumb pressing the
sharp points, that wounded her baby’s
brow; for always that is the mother’s 
thought, when her loved one is taken; it
may be a man or woman grown; but to the
bereft mother it is always “My baby, my
baby, that I have carried under my heart.”
There are no tears in the eyes of this
“mourning mother,”and she gazes straight
out and far away, with such a look of dumb
agony, so real, so terrible in its intensity,
that my own heart was sore for her sorrow.
I do not recall the coloring, but remember
St. John the Beloved stands on her left,
his hand reached out touching her arm, 
with a look on his face as tho’ he fain
would comfort her, yet knows he cannot;


one of the Mary’s is on her right, her hand
on the Virgin’s shoulder, and she leans
yearningly over her; but it was on the
mourning mother’s face that all my interest
centered. I had no thought as to whether
the coloring or grouping were good, or if
the drawing were faultless, but I knew that
the hand which had given to the world that
divinelv sorrowful countenance, was the
hand of a master, and he was acquainted
with grief.
EDAHOO.
[To be Continued.]


98 			WOMAN’S EXPONENT


