[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | March | Issue: 13 | Title: LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Meeting, held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, Jan. 13th
1884. Prest. M. I. Horne presiding. Song
“Come let us anew.” Prayer by Sister E.
Brown. Continued by singing, “All Hail 
the new born year.’’ Minutes of the last
neeting read and approved. Prest. M. I.
Horne said I am happy to meet with you in
this another year, I am so glad to see so
many sisters here today, and I trust that
you will all bear testimony.
	The minutes of the 5th Ward Primary
Annual Meeting were read by the Secre-
tary, a little girl. 
	Sisters Aird and Leaker, each bore a
strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and felt to acknowledge the hand of God
in all things. Sisters sang, “We thank
thee O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Julia Pack, spoke of trials and
tribulations she had passed through, said
she had seen the sick healed by the laying
on of hands, had seen many raised from
seeming death, and had been raised herself.
	Sister Bidgood, spoke of learning the
things of God, through tribulations. Told
of many trials borne in the past. Desired
to live to do good, invoked God’s blessing
on all the sisters.
	Coun. E. Webb said, let us talk comfort-
ing words to each other, and be valiant
soldiers in the cause of our God. Let us
have faith and bear cheerfully what we are
called upon to endure. Let us thank the
Lord for our experiences, for they are les-


[Column 1]
sons unto us. Let me exhort you to be
faithful. Think of the privilege you have
to work in the temple, to liberate those who
are waiting for redemption. Said many
other good things.
	A sister in the congregation, bore her
testimony, told of a child of hers that had
been dead five minutes, and was then re-
stored to life by the ordinances of the Gos-
pel, made other remarks.
	Sisters Larsen and Jean Peterson, each
spoke, felt to glorify God, and desired to
help build up the kingdom.
	Sister M. Wilcox, felt to bear her testi-
mony, and spoke at some length on Temple
work.
	Coun. E. Stevenson, bore testimony to
the efficacy of fasting and prayer, said we
draw nearer to Him in this way, and He
turns none away empty who come to Him
in this way. Gave other good instructions.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert said, I feel
thankful and full of gratitude to God for
the many blessings he has bestowed on me.
I feel to devote my life and my all to His
cause. I pray for the Holy Spirit in us all
that we may be saved with the just.
	Sister Palmer bore her testimony, also
Sister Diana Reid, and Sister Smailey,
Sister Paul told of blessings promised her, 
and the labor she had performed as a re-
sult of their fulfillment.
	Prest. M. I. Horne, I am glad of the testi-
monies that have been borne. Our
priviliges are great for we can meet to-
gether, that our souls may be fed. I am
so thankful that the Church property has
been restored, I feel that God is working
in His own way, and His own time. The
key was turned to favor Zion, when the
Temple was dedicated. He requires us to
be humble and faithful, and prepare for
His second coming. I feel with my sisters
that we shall have a prosperous and Happy
New Year.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Sang “The time is far spent.” Bene-
diction by Sister J. C. Howe.
	L. D. Alder, Sec.

