[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 364 | Home | My Third Hand, Lillian | Y. Bradshaw]
My Third-Hand Lillian Y. Bradshaw @ As well organized as we mothers and grandmothers are most of the time, there always come those times when something comes up in a home that just has to be done. Then you wish you had a third hand to take care of the little ones. Any idea which keeps me relaxed and my children happily busy while I, too, am busy, I call my third hand. Many are the ways to keep young ones happy, such as a bucket with water and a small paint brush while others are painting, or stringing cereal into a necklace while mother is sewing, but here is my choicest third-hand idea. An old idea with but a new twist—but what a difference it makes! It all begins with step #1. 1. Turn a cookie sheet over—bottom up, and then lightly grease and _ flour the bottom of the pan. Ai 2. Roll out some cookie dough to the desired thickness. 364 3. While you go about your own baking or housework, let your young ones cut all the shapes they desire, showing them first how far apart all the edges must be. Don't worry if they have to roll it smooth time and time again. This is half the fun. Let them do it the way they want. A separate pan for each child is ideal. It is also a marvelous way to entertain young ones at a birthday party. ———» 4. Now comes the other half of the fun as they peel out the extra dough between the cookies. It builds their skill in selecting the right piece to pull, and, best of all, along with the fun and creative elements of working with clay, it has the added enthusiasm of something good to eat later. The extra dough which has been removed from around the cutouts can be pressed into a lump and then rolled out on another pan _—— to make more cookies. Checking back often to see how they are getting along gives a wonderful feeling of companionship and not only are their efforts praised now, but when the cookies are served at dinner the praise is double. Without the fifth step cutout cookies have always caused mixed emotions in me. I know there is no cookie which seems to satisfy both the hunger and the imagination of a child, be they young or old, boy or girl, as does a cutout cookie. Recipes and ideas for the holidays have always intrigued me into trying them, but, oh, the frustration when flour is strewn from one end of the kitchen to the other as the cutouts are transferred from cutting board to cookie sheet, or else became stuck, and the gingerbread man loses a leg or a star loses one point. So often it ends in tears as the children try to help. But with the pan upside down it is step five that truly makes this my third hand. 5. No need to transfer the cutout cookies—they are all ready to bake—just - place the pan in the oven and bake the way it is. The area is clean and neat, and never again will the chicken lose its head, and the children are busy, creative, and happy. 365 m It was one of those hectic mornings every mother encounters from time to time in her career as a housewife—when you wish Alexander Graham Bell had minded his own _ business and never invented the telephone, when the washing and ironing keep piling higher and higher, when one of your best dishes is accidentally broken, when every little problem seems insurmountable—and, in short, when "the faster you go, the behinder you get"—and that's when bBell's little invention rang for the umpteenth time! I stumbled over our little blonde three-year-old on the way to the phone, mentally noting that the toy which had been fascinating her for the past ten minutes was Davey's new model oar. "If I were a man, I'd let the noisy thing ring," I muttered, as I faked a cheery "Good morning!" Sister Thomas' voice sounded as if she had all her work done and was relaxing with a good book. (How can some people be so downright efficient!) "Just thought I'd call," she said cheerfully, "to see if you would like me to take your cake over to the school along with mine. I remember you said you had a dental appointment today." 366 I Can Hear the Birds Sing Lettice O. Rich (Cake?... Oh, horrors! This couldn't possibly be the day of the Bake Sale! Surely it was next Friday!) With an agonizing look at the kitchen clock, I thanked her for her thoughtfulness and said I'd have plenty of time to deliver it on the way to the dentist. (Why, oh, why, did this have to happen today?) I glanced at little Diane as I hung up the phone. (What a model mother you have today, little one, I thought. Ten o'clock and you're still in pajamas!) And then I decided to pop the cake in the oven before she wanted to help. I started automatically reaching for the ingredients when I suddenly remembered Steve saying that morning, "We're out of sugar, Mom—used the last on my cereal." (I know very well sugar was on my grocery list last week—how could I possibly have forgotten it?) I knew there wasn't any use looking for sugar in the basement —not with my husband's notice firmly nailed in big black letters on the door: "DO NOT REMOVE ANY FOOD STORAGE ITEM UNLESS YOU REPLACE IT WITH NEW." So, forgetting my special caramel nut cake promised for the sale, and blessing the kind soul who invented quickie cake mixes, I climbed on the kitchen stool to find a box on the top shelf. Frantic searching among the rice, macaroni, and cereal boxes, however, revealed everything but a cake mix! What frustrating luck! Now there was no choice except a trip to the grocery store, but it would only take a minute in the in the... Oh, no! And the last straw settled on my distraught nerves. This was Friday—not just Friday, the Bake Sale day; not even Friday, the 13th. At our house it was Friday, No Car Till Noon day—and it would take at least thirty minutes on foot, especially with a little girl tagging along! I looked at her, still contentedly running the car up and down over imaginary hills and bridges. I could make it a lot faster without her, I thought. Surely she'd be all right. And then, across my mind flashed headlines, '"'Child Burns to Death While Mother Goes to Grocery Store," and I frantically began to round up her clothes. She was delighted, of course, but five hectic minutes elapsed before we found the shoe she had tucked away in the bathroom towel drawer; another exasperating five minutes were wasted changing three dresses so she could 'wear her pretty blue dress to the store," and another impatient few minutes trying to find the penny Grandpa gave her yesterday, but finally we were on the way—one frazzle-nerved mother and a chattering threeyear-old.