[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 370 | Home | One Step At a Time, Judyth | S. Peterson]
One Step at a Time Judyth S. Peterson Keeping a clean, orderly house is a natural thing for some women. Others, myself included, seem to resist their mothers' teachings and do not develop good habits. My group is usually discouraged by articles on homemaking—we are made only too aware of our shortcomings, and we feel all the more inadequate because others accomplish so easily what we ourselves cannot seem to begin. We are led to believe that nearly all homemakers are efficient, conscientious bundles of energy, tireless, and capable of coping with every problem. We read glowing reports of how Grandma managed to keep everything washed and pressed, swept and dusted, polished and preserved, with none of our modern conveniences, and thirteen children. And we sink deeper into despair! I've never been neat with my clothes, drawers, etc., and after I married, I seemed to get worse instead of better. When I was expecting our second baby, I was also teaching kindergarten part time, and I did very little housework. When I came home at noon, the bed was unmade, dishes from dinner the night before and from breakfast were in the sink, the house was disorderly, and as it took me most of the afternoon to get the dishes done (I moved very slowly!) I had not touched an iron or a mop in ages. The worse the house looked, the worse I felt, and vice versa. Finally, at New Year's resolution time, I knew something had to be done. To reinforce my good intentions, I bought an excellent book on homemaking. When I saw that I should be doing more in one day than I did in an entire week, I felt discouraged. I could never do it. It was like trying to learn to read without being able to recognize the alphabet! I had so far to go that I couldn't even get started. If you have lived for years without good habits, you will know what I mean. Then I had an idea. Perhaps I could never do everything the way I should, but I could do just one thing right. I made a list of my housekeeping problems in the order of their importance, starting with the ones that bothered me most, such as: 1. Dishes left overnight; 2. Bed left unmade; 3. Ironing left too long; and so on. The first month I told myself, 'I'm going to do this one thing right after I get up each morning—make my bed.' When a month had passed, I found I was doing these two things with very little effort. It was becoming more interested in the appearance of my bedroom, and the kitchen floor looked out of place, and I swept it. But these were only by-products of my resolution. I was concerned with my immediate task only, and the good feeling of accomplishment. The second month I added another chore, working on each one for a full month gave me enough time to establish a new routine, and gain confidence. I still have a long way to go, but I am ready for that book on homemaking now. And I haven't been confronted in the morning with unwashed dishes or a disorderly house for several years. I may never be the world's most efficient homemaker, but when I think of the progress I have made so far, it is not an impossible possibility. Surely if I can do it, you can, too. Make your list right now and be confident of your success. It's easy—one step at a time!