[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 329 | Special Feature | Children Grow | Up With]
Pictures are helpful to complete enjoyment and they should be Children Grow Up With Poetry realistic enough for him to understand. They should give added meaning to the poem. As children grow more accustomed to hearing poetry they begin to respond to the lyric in which feeling and emotion play a predominant part. We speak of the lyric poets as "singers of song," the poetry has a song-like quality. Much of the mystery and wonder of our world has been explored by _ these poets. Since many of the poets of childhood have written poetry of the fairy world this is a delightful field to explore. Many of the lovely things of this world we liken to a fairy world. We say of the Temple Square with the lights of Christmas that "it is like a fairyland." Children have keen imaginations and, while perhaps not actually believing in fairies, they delight in poetry which describes this world just over the edge of reality. Young children love the tiny gauze-winged creatures created by Rose Fyleman with whom they can identify themselves. Rose Fyleman solemnly advises children who meet a fairy, "don't run away." Older children will respond to the quite different creatures created by Walter de la Mare. This fine poet is a master at portraying the "wee folk" often grotesque and ugly. His famous "Lob-Lie-by-the-Fire" is described as having "great hands" and "big nose," but he makes up for his ugliness by his goodness—his "great heart" which, "belies his great nose." This 4From Children and Books by May Hill Arbuthnot. Copyright 1947, with revisions in 1957, 1964. Used by permission of Scott, Foresman and Company. 

331 May 1970

 goodness endears him to children. Beginning an early introduction to poetry involves, of course, beginning in the home. Have at hand a book or several books of poems for children. Know where to find quickly a poem to fit an occasion or an experience. Have "in your head" or readily available a poem for that sudden shower or a lovely fall of snow when 'fence posts wear marshmallow hats," or when the first daffodil is in bloom with "golden wings and a golden cup." Be prepared for this spontaneous use of poetry, but remember there is such a thing as overdoing it. Plan also for a quiet time to read poetry with children. It may be when seated on mother's or father's lap when all are ready for bed. For Family Home Evening children may _ choose their favorite poems for an adult to read, or they may contribute the poems they have memorized. Even three-year-olds delight in having a poem to contribute on occasions or special holidays when there is an adult audience ready to listen and give approval. It is surprising how easily young children memorize poetry. Add a few new poems each time to enlarge the horizon. Try many kinds of poetry. Sometimes children are hungry for nonsense and humor. Again they need more serious poetry. Do not ask after reading a poem, "Did you like that?" This too often calls for a negative response. Watch for the signs that show a child's pleasure: a smile or a chuckle, a comment such as, "T like that," or "read it again." Sometimes a certain intentness of feeling is visible but not put into words. Silence after the reading of a poem is one evidence of its success. Sometimes we are silent when we feel most deeply. The child or the adult will acquire good taste in poetry if he encounters good _ poetry and experiences pleasure in the encounter. The poetry must be fine in content and expression. It must be poetry which in the words of A. A. Milne, "will sing itself into your head and stay there forever." Helping children to acquire a love for poetry is a rewarding experience, rewarding for you and doubly rewarding for your children. Are you taking advantage of the golden opportunity to enrich the lives of your children? BIBLIOGRAPHY There are many fine anthologies available and many books containing the poetry of only one poet. I submit only two anthologies, the poems in each case were selected by experts in this field: Frank, Josette, ed. More Poems to Read to the Very Young, ill. By Dagmar Wilson (Random House). This is an excellent introduction to poetry for the pre-school child. Enjoyed even by three-year-olds because pictures interpret the poems. Arbuthnot, May Hill, ed. Time for Poetry (Scott Foresman, Trade ed. A. Whitman). More than seven hundred poems ranging from "Mother Goose" to T. S. Eliot. An excellent anthology.