[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 376 | Home | The Kranj Wonder, | Helen Hinckley Jones]
A cold environment fosters 376 —s The Kranj Wonder a lack of appreciation, lack of interest, lack of love, gives birth to distressing attitudes of inner conflict, self-depreciation, antagonism, withdrawal. A warm atmosphere encourages the birth of such attitudes as friendliness, cooperation, a sound self-image, self-acceptance, love, and compassion. Years ago I was having trouble controlling a high school boy who preferred performing antics to looking in a book or participating in discussion. One afternoon I talked with him, his long legs folded awkwardly under a classroom desk. At first he was reluctant to confide in me. Slowly, almost tentatively he began to respond. "Derrick," I said (this is not his real name but will indicate his national origin), "I want you to write the first words that come into your mind when I say school teacher history... Father." The words that came into his mind for school, teacher, and history didn't surprise me. "Boring, dull, long, useless."" What really chilled me were the words he wrote in response to father. 'Leather belt, pain, hate, kill." When I read back the words he had written he said, "Well, it's true. I do hate my father, but I don't blame him for treating me like he does. I'm no good. I'm dumb. Im stupid. It' d be better if I was dead. I'm nothing but a big ape." Tears came into his eyes and he was angry at me for seeing them. I didn't mention his classroom behavior. It didn't take a psychologist to tell me that his antics before his peers were absolutely necessary to him if he was to cover his deep sense of inferiority. How could this boy ever feel that he was a "child of God," how could he ever walk in the world with self-confidence and faith? At that time I didn't know the story of the proteus anguinus, the Kranj Wonder. Just the same I knew that Derrick was living in a dark cave in mighty cold water penetrated only now and then by a shaft of warmth and light. And I knew that I must be such a shaft if I could possibly grow big and warm enough to qualify. I am thinking of adults as environment-makers. But sometimes children make our environment, too. One evening my five-year-old grandson said, "I wish I had someone to hear my prayers," his sweet undemanding way of making a request. I took his hand and we went together to a quiet room. He knelt by my knee. "Heavenly Father, thank you for our beautiful world. Thank you for our beautiful Church. Thank you for our beautiful grandma...." Beauty is a feeling to Sean rather than something that pleases the senses. I know right well how un-bcautiful I am, but to be linked with the world and the Church in this loved child's thoughts made all the "water" around me warm and pleasant and lighted up my whole personal "cave." Far away in Yugoslavia in cold water caves lives the Kranj Wonder. Just around my corner lives someone who is waiting for me to find reason for praise, an opportunity for an expression of appreciation, a genuine word of love. I believe I'll leave the proteus anguinus to Kramer and Nusbum.