[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 324 | Special Feature | A Beautiful Journey Aline | R. Pettit]
As we talked together, my 324 Aline R. Pettit Member, General Board of Relief Society brother, sister, and I, memories of our childhood came flooding back. Paramount in our reminiscences was the awareness of our mother's purity of thought. How typical that she should repeat the Twenty-third Psalm! Vivid in our memories was Mother busying herself about the house reciting a favorite poem or giving a special thought or bit of scripture which especially appealed to her.

[A Beautiful Journey Aline R. Pettit]

Mother not only read voraciously, she memorized. As she read she always had pencil and paper nearby, and when she found something that appealed to her, she wrote it down, not to be filed away but to be memorized. As children we were not as enthused as she about "learning things by heart," but nevertheless it was required of us. We did not just wash dishes in our house, we washed dishes and committed to memory the special thought tacked over the sink. The same memorization was required when we ironed. Part of our training in "elocution" involved reciting in front of the mirror in the bathroom so we could master the proper gestures and facial expressions. Mother was active in Relief Society for forty-eight consecutive years. Most of that time she JOURNEY taught theology and literature. Teaching meant giving the lesson as outlined, plus memorizing all the scripture or literary works offered. To her it was a sin to read anything from the printed page. And that applied whether she was teaching from Shakespeare, Browning, Longfellow, or James Whitcomb Riley. One of my earliest memories is of Mother reciting Eugene Field's "Little Boy Blue." I remember sitting at her feet with my brother and sister as she spoke softly: The little toy dog is covered with dust, But sturdy and staunch he stands; The little toy soldier is red with rust, And his musket molds in his hands. Time was when the little toy dog was new, And the soldier was passing fair; And that was the time when our Little Boy Blue Kissed them and put them there. We heard the poem many, many times, but we always cried at the last line because the little boy died. Mother's life centered around two great loves: her family and her Relief Society. My father, a native of Huntsville, Utah, a graduate in law from Northwestern University and an adventurer at heart, moved his family from Utah to California O Lydia Knudsen Rawson in 1919. It was the era in California when fortunes were made and lost overnight. Father drilled some of the first oil wells in Huntington Beach, California. He bought and sold property along Wilshire Boulevard when it was a small road leading through the wheat fields. He subdivided a large tract of land in the Santa Monica Mountains. Mother, who had never before been out of Utah, felt lost and lonely in this strange land. As. It turned out, however, it was a happy experience for both of them because in 

325 May 1970

 California Dad found the adventure he was looking for and Mother found Relief Society. In 1923 the first Los Angeles Stake in California was organized. Mother was one of the original members of the first Stake Relief Society Board. Four years later, Hollywood Stake was created, with Sister Katherine Romney Stewart as president and Mother was one of her counselors. For eighteen years these sisters and their board worked tirelessly in establishing the foundation of Relief Society in Southern California. In 1929, when the economic crash occurred, my father lost what he had acquired and deLydia Rawson poses with her three a, ena fA wy. Hm a" 4 "~~ '. «w og? Ea ae ae, a 4 Fe pte oun' — S. Ae 8 — a - a gS veloped those firstyears in California. It could have been a devastating experience for our family, but our parents believed that staying close to the Lord was more important than riches. "Remember the poem about 'God's Undying Love,'" Mother would say: God hath not promised skies always blue, Flower-strewn pathways all our lives through. God hath not promised sun without rain, Joy without sorrow, peace without pain. But God hath promised strength for the day, Rest for the labor, peace for the way, Grace for the trials, help from above Unfailing sympathy, undying love. (author unknown) children, Aline, LoRee, and William K. Rawson in 1924. Rey Pee 7 EL aa <i. 2 —_— Mother (Lydia Knudsen) had known hardship before in her life. A daughter of pioneer parents, she was reared in Provo, Utah. Her father, Andrew Knudsen, was eight years old when his parents settled in Provo at the request of Brigham Young. It was a rigorous life. Farming near Utah Lake in the early days meant grubbing willows and back-breaking labor taming the soil before planting could be done. There was always danger of floods. Their pioneer homes were often inadequate protection from the cold winters. When Mother was a little girl, the Andrew Knudsen family moved to a home in the town of Provo, but they still maintained the farm at the Lake. Mother was the oldest girl in a family of seven. There were hard times when her father filled a threeyear mission in his native land of Norway, leaving his wife and family to farm during his absence. There were hard times when Grandma Knudsen suffered poor health after the birth of her last child, and Mother had to leave school and take over the family responsibilities. Mother loved to relate stories of her life as a girl and we were avid listeners. Their farm was three miles from their home. During the summer, Mother often spent the days at the farm cooking for the men. One evening she was riding her bicycle home at dusk. It took a steady hand to keep the bicycle in the wagon ruts on the dirt road. She was concentrating on this feat and failed to notice in the dim light a large bump in the road until she was on top of it. Imagine her shock when the bump turned out A Beautiful Journey to be a cow which rose up in fright and tossed her, bicycle and all, over the fence. Mother's never-failing sense of humor was a great source of strength to her family in those difficult days of the depression. We had no money for travel or vacations or commercial entertainment. Priceless were the evenings when she would entertain us with stories given in "broken English." She mastered the art of mimicking many of the people she had known as a girl. Mother had a great warmth of personality. She showed us how to love, to suffer, to be happy, to laugh at the humorous things in life. With the depression many young people came to California from Utah, Arizona, and Nevada, seeking employment. Wilshire Ward in Los Angeles, our ward, was the center for the Latter-day Saint young people. Our home became a home away from home for many of them. A boy without a job was always welcome to a meal. A young girl not able to pay for her own apartment could stay with us until she found something of her own. Many were amazed that our mother could carry on with so much activity around her all the time. But she loved it. Christmas in the days of our teenage years always brought two new formal dresses under the tree, one for me and one for my sister, who was one year and one day younger than I. The Christmas dance at Wilshire Ward was the highlight of the year, and Mother made sure we always went in new dresses. Sew- 

327 May 1970

 ing was not easy for her, but determination and love made up for her lack of skill. The finished product was always something beautiful and fun to wear. The M-Men and _ Gleaners spent weeks planning and decorating for the big Christmas dance. Perhaps this was the reason we enjoyed it to the fullest. To us the hall was a festive fairyland; the waltzes were "heavenly," and our friends the finest in the world. Latter-day Saint standards were faithfully observed. After the dance we usually gathered at our home for Mother's famous chili and beans, hot chocolate, and butter cookies. IVI other was never an onlooker on life. On the contrary she was always in the middle of it. When she was in her late seventies, and alone, my brother built her a lovely little house at the rear of his home. She went there to live, but she refused to settle down to being an old lady. Relief Society in her new ward needed her and she needed them she would say. One day several years after Mother moved to her little home, my sister-in-law found her crumpled on the lawn where she had collapsed while hanging out some clothes. She was hurrying to get her washing done so she could go visiting teaching with her partner. Later, when the doctors examined her at the hospital, she asked: "Will I be able to go home in a week? I'm scheduled to give a lesson in my Church next Wednesday." She was the visiting teacher 328 message leader at the time. The fact that she was then eightyeight years old, and that perhaps her body was beginning to fail, did not dawn on her. Her illness was more serious than she had thought. Mother will be ninety next July. At the time of my last visit, she was elated because her Camp of the Daughters of the Pioneers had transferred their meeting place to her convalescent home so she could share in the lessons with them. "Can you hear the lessons as they give them, Mother?" I asked. "No, I can't hear them because my hearing is almost gone, but that doesn't matter. You see, I've been asked to give a poem at each meeting and that is such a joy to me." "But, Mother," I said, "how can you read a poem when your eyes are so dim?" I should have known better than to ask that question. "Of course I don't read the poems! One of the ladies here helps me and I memorize them." "You memorize a new poem for each monthly meeting?" "Certainly," she answered. "I surely can't remain here and do nothing!" Bless you, Mother, for making your life a thing of beauty. It is a privilege to hold your hand and know that through you there is a link with a marvelous pioneer heritage. Through you we have seen life lived from barefoot days on sandy country roads to the footprints of man on the moon. It has been a beautiful journey because always you have looked beyond the clouds to see the glory of each sunrise. Children Grow Up With Poetry May C. Hammond Assistant Professor Emeritus of Education Brigham Young University The poet has the child's sight in his breast And sees all new. Whatever he has viewed He views with the first glory. __Elizabeth Barrett Browning ws The poet and the child have much in common, and only that poet who can a child—who can experience the wonder and newness perience—only this poet can write poetry for children. Luckily we have many fine poets who possess this gift. Laura EK. Richards, herself a poet, tells us that poetry is the child's natural heritage. She tells that this sense of rhythm if not nurtured on rhyme may soon disappear. Fairy gift, not being used it soon fades away. Children respond readily to rhyme and rhythm, to "tune and runningness." Children also delight in words—words that give sensory images, color and sound, taste and movement. Even with little or no understanding of the content children respond to "Mother Goose," so rich in these qualities. May Becker insists that ing to the enjoyment of poetry. It is such an easy transition from "Mother Goose to the delightful nonsense verse of A. A. Milne or Laura E. Richards, or to the more modern poets who are writing verse for children. Children also delight in the imaginative quality of poetry. They delight in the stirring sense of wonder which is often the poet's delight. Niel Armstrong, in q television appearance before Congress, made the statement that "mystery and wonder" were the motivating factors that finally led to the landing on the moon. Mystery and wonders stimulate the imagination and are essential to all creative effort in the sciences as well as the arts. There is pleasure and stimulation, especially for the imaginative child, in something not perfectly comprehended, in vistas d of him waiting to be explored. The poem "The of wonder. "What do you so queer?" he answers only, "But tell me what do you hear?" The children guess and guess. 

329 May 1970

 But he never would tell us the name of his tune The funny old bagpipe man.! Walter de la Mare had the ability to evoke this feeling of wonder in children. He was a master of the "unanswered question." His poem "Someone" is a good example. It is always a favorite of young children who never tire of guessing who "came knocking." In children's fresh outlook on life nothing needs to remain commonplace. How much more beautiful wild carrot becomes after one has heard it spoken of as "Queen Anne's Lace."" Never again will it seem just a common weed by the roadside. "The Firefly," by Elizabeth Maddox Roberts, is a poem of pure beauty and wonder and makes this little "bug" also a thing of delight. The poem is typical of this poet's style. THE FIREFLY A little light is going by, Is going up to meet the sky, A little ight with wings. I never would have thought of it To have a little bug all lit And made to go on wings.' What is poetry? How can we be sure that we are giving the best to our children? Walter de la Mare tells us that only the best of anything is good enough for children. How can we know what is best? Since each person responds to a poem in a different way, perhaps the comments of poets will help us in our understanding. These statements are somewhat illusive but they are interesting. William Rose Benet tells us that poetry is "the quicksilver element in all art." Robert Frost says that a poem "begins in delight and ends in wisdom." Elizabeth Drew speaks of poetry as revealing "not only spiritual values but all values, intellectual, emotional, and sensuoUs." Our personal reactions vary, but if we are poetry lovers we will confess to some such reactions as those expressed by Emily Dickinson. Speaking of her personal reactions to poetry she tells us that she "sometimes feels so cold no fire could warm her," and often "as if the top of her head were coming off."

In a lovely and illusive definition of poetry Eleanor Farjeon gives us the idea that poetry conveys to our senses the light, the gleam, the scent, and even the sound of things in a way that stirs our emotions. But exactly what is poetry? Who knows? What is poetry? Who knows? Not the rose, but the scent of the rose; Not the sky, but the light in the sky; Not the fly, but the gleam of the fly; Not the sea, but the sound of the sea; Not myself, but what makes me See, hear, and feel something that prose Cannot. And what it is, who knows? 'The Bagpipe Man," from Magpie Lane by Nancy Byrd Turner, copyright 1927. Used by permission of Harcourt, Brace and World Inc. "The Firefly," from Under the Tree, by Elizabeth Maddox Roberts, copyright 1922 by B. W. Huebsch Inc. 1940, by The Viking Press. Used by permission. 'Copyright 1938, by Eleanor Farjeon. Renewal 1966, by Gervase Farjeon. From the book Poems for Children by Eleanor Farjeon. Copyright, 1951, by Eleanor Farjeon. Reprinted by permission of J. B. Lippincott Company. 330 There are, however, certain qualities by which we can learn to recognize good poetry. We do not need to remain wholly in the dark. We are indebted to May Hill Arbuthnot (Children and Books)* for these standards for judging poetry: First, does it sing — with good rhythm, true unforced rhymes and a happy compatability of sound and subject? Second, is the diction distinguished—with words that are rich in sensory and connotative meanings, words that are unhackneyed, precise and memorable? Third, does the subject matter of the poem invest the strange or the everyday experiences of life with importance and richer meaning? Children's taste in poetry will improve only if they have repeated experiences with good poetry. This same thing is, of course, true of adults. Walter Barnes (The Children's Poets) tells us that a child should be made to "stand on tiptoe" now. And then, in other words he must reach up for understanding. It is the occasional poem that a child cannot quite understand that will make him stand on tiptoe. Lucky the child who has an understanding adult to help him over the hurdle. If we are concerned with making poetry lovers of our children we will begin early. We will keep in mind that poetry read to the young child should have action and liveliness and should be about things and situations with which he is familiar.