[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 358 | Home | Vacations Are for Mothers, too, Kathryn | E. Franks]
Vacations Are tor Mothers, Kathryn E. Franks too — n addition to the extra summer activities, Jill Martin had been busy for several weeks preparing for the family's two weeks' vacation at the lake. In a heat wave, she had combed the bargain counters searching for bathing suits to fit eight-year-old Karen, five-yearold David, and three-year-old Mike. Then, after she thought she had finished her shopping, she had bought a camping cot, a fishing reel, and a pair of swimming fins with the money she had saved all summer to paint the kitchen and service porch walls. Now, on Friday afternoon, with only four hours left to finish the cleaning and packing, Jill stopped long enough at the kitchen sink to splash tap water over her face 358 and hands. She straightened her tired back, and reckoned with the wave of resentment that swept over her. Are vacations really necessary? Are they worth the extra work, the added expense? On the hottest day of the year, hot and weary, in the midst of the packing, she asked herself that question. The children, highly excited, were loud and unsettled. They ran in and out, disturbing Jill's schedule. Noticing the time, she turned to the service porch and unrolled the last batch of ironing. She had finished her own blouse when Martha, her next-door neighbor, walked through the back door, carrying a large plate of homemade cookies. "Martha," Jill greeted her friend eagerly. "Who but you The Village of Wroxton, England. Would bake cookies for me on this hot day!" "When I saw the washing you had to sort; the groceries you carried in to be packed, and your family to feed I honestly didn't think you'd have time to bake the cookies you like to take with you." "IT wouldn't have," Jill answered. "I'll thank you for the rest of the family because you know how much they like your chocolate chip cookies."' Seconds after Martha wished Jill a happy vacation and walked out the door, the children, like bees drawn to nectar, swarmed through the back door and circled the cookie platter. "Cookies," they squealed. "We are starved!" "Afraid not," Jill warned them sharply. '""These are to take to the lake.... Get ripe peaches PHOTO BY JOSEF MUENCH. From the blue bowl." Fifteen minutes later she heard Mike in his room and rushed in to find him pulling everything from his red and blue circusdecorated toy chest. She grabbed his arm just as the bottom contents flew out on the floor. '"Where's my sailboat?" he asked his mother. "Please pick up these toys and go outside. We'll find it later." Jill disliked her cross voice, but there were so many things yet to do, and so little time left. When Dave and Karen came inside, begging for their swimming trunks to go swimming in the neighbor's pool, Jill begrudgingly pulled out the packed swimming suits. Now, she would have to pack two wet suits later. I should have said no, she thought, however, at the moment it was easier to give in for she 

359 May 1970

 didn't have the time nor the strength to argue. At five o'clock Jim walked in from work, smiling, looking happy and relaxed at the prospect of a good, cool two weeks at the lake with his family. Jill tried desperately to match his mood. Then, with Jim helping, they fixed a quick supper. By eight o'clock everything was packed, loaded into the car, and Jim was finally locking the house. At dusk, before they left town, Jim pulled into a service station. Jill heard the attendant remark, "Looks as if you're off on vacation." Sitting there with a slightly cooler breeze coming through the open car window, Jill listened to Jim's familiar voice. Kennedy Castle Grounds of Lord Stair near Stranraer, Scotland. "We packed only necessary things," Jim said, "but it does look like a carload." His words, although they were as light as the breeze, struck her then with a sudden impact. "We packed only the necessary things," Jim just said. Then why? Jill asked silently, am I taking my budget worries, my weary back, and a bad mood along with me? It is natural, she decided, to resent the extra work, but didn't Jim and the children deserve a good vacation? And didn't she as a devoted wife and mother, owe it to them? As the car again pulled out onto the highway and Jim concentrated on his driving, Jill leaned back in the seat and pondered. PHOTO BY HAROLD M. LAMBERT STUDIOS. Upper Killarney Lake, County Kerry. Beyond a doubt, it had been her fault that she had become so exhausted. Why, she wondered now, had she insisted upon doing all the work herself? With some insight and a little more forethought, she could have planned in advance the many ways the children could have helped. Sharing the work would have given the children an important responsibility. Quickly, without Jim noticing what she was doing, Jill took a sheet of paper and pencil from her purse. She had a few things to do before she reached the cabin. Carefully, with concentration, she wrote her list. The first thing, she decided, when they reached the cabin would be for the children to carry their belongings to their respective rooms. Once inside, she would show them their clothes drawers, and ask them to put away their own clothes. Next, with the children helping, she would supervise the bedmaking. Afterwards, she would save a lot of confusion and argument by assigning the personal towel racks and towels. Those things accomplished, they would all help put away the food in the kitchen. This should give the entire family time to stroll down to the lake before retiring. Otherwise, the children, in their eagerness, would rush out the door and scamper down the path to the lake without taking any responsibility whatsoever. By the third morning Jill was 

361 May 1970

 happily surprised at how well her plans had developed. Away from home, in a different environment, the children had actually welcomed their share of the chores. While Jill cooked breakfast, Karen poured the milk and willingly set the table. Dave carried out the trash. Mike picked up the papers, and, in his three-yearold way, tidied the newspapers, and, with the broom top heavy above his shoulders, he swept the front and back steps. After breakfast, Jill washed the dishes while the children and Jim got into swimming suits and collected the items that needed to be carried to the lake. "With all this help," Jill mused, looking at the cleared table, "I'm going to have time on my hands!" She did. That morning, long before noon, she had climbed the knoll overlooking the cove and sat down in the deep grass. A soft breeze hummed in the fir trees above her and tossed her hair lightly across her forehead. She enjoyed the solitude until she saw the children and Jim wade out of the water below her. Jill rose then and hurried back down the curved path to join them. After lunch the five of them searched the beach for shells, and tramped among the dried pine needles on the cabin side and gathered pine cones. Quietly, they watched the chipmunks, and, tempting them with food, tried to tame them. On late afternoon of the fourth day the family had fun beside the lake, they noticed the sun sinking behind the spruce trees on the opposite side of the shore 362 before they had once thought about supper. "It is the most beautiful time of the day," Jill remarked. "'Let's not go back to the cabin." She watched the lazy lapping of the small waves upon the sand. They seemed to grow more gentle at sundown, almost as if they were repeating some old, remembered Indian lullaby. "Send the children to the cabin for hot dogs," Jim suggested, "and I'll build a campfire." With instructions from Jill as to where to find the food, Karen, with the boys following, darted up the path toward the cabin. Soon they were zigzagging back down the trail, their arms loaded with hot dogs, buns, and marshmallows. After they had eaten, the three youngsters played games down by the cove. Stars appeared overhead. "This is better than home, isn't it?" Jim asked, looking boyishly across the campfire then up at the fast-appearing stars. "Home?" Jill exclaimed teasingly. "Where's that?" Jim smiled. "Right now," he answered quietly, "it's under the stars." Indeed it was, and when she left, Jill decided drowsily, she intended to take enough of Still Lake home with her to last all year. She had learned a little late, but she had discovered that it took organization on her part, which included giving the children their share of responsibility in the family's vacation plan. In doing so, she had found what vacations are all about that they are for mothers, too. Whatever Happened I ' I b} to Singing? 4 Olga Milius One day last summer I was entertaining myself with a little light opera while dusting, and when I reached the door there stood two young salesmen grinning like Cheshire cats as they listened to my warbling.