	MARY BOMMELI EYRING.

	Mary Bommeli Eyring was born in Wein-
garten, Switzerland, March 20th, 1831,
in a home of good honest people. Her
mother died when she was four years
of age, but her stepmother, her mother’s
sister, was a good mother. Mary
early learned to work and sacrifice for
others and these qualities mark every act
of her whole life. Her childhood was spent
at the village school, two miles from their
home farm, during the school seasons, and
during the summer she helped on the farm,
hoeing, planting, harvesting. As soon as
she was old enough and strong enough to
move the reed on the loom, she learned to
weave and thus helped the family. She
loved school and was very sad when her
school days were over, but though not in
school she continued to read all the litera-
ture that came within her reach.
	With her friends and her brother’s friends
many long winter evenings were spent with
the papers, magazines and books of the day.
It was thus she first read about “Mormon-
ism” which had come into existence in
America. They read both good and bad,
but it was not until George, Mary’s brother,
met a “Mormon” elder in Zurich that they
became interested in the wonderful news
of the gospel’s restoration in these the last
days.
	Mary and her two brothers, George and
Daniel, were baptized in Zurich and it was
not long before the whole family were mem-
bers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. Many were the evenings in
the heart of winter that Mary took the
precious “Book of Mormon” and “The
Voice of Warning” down in the cellar with
her, so that when her weaving was finished
she could read them as she cuddled close to
the warm chimney.
	Like most new members, after the bap-
tismal service was performed, the spirit of
gathering came upon them. But on ac-
count of their espousal of this unpopular
belief they found much difficulty in selling
their home. They finally sold it for a pit-
tance which did not cover the whole of the
emigrating expenses. Mary had saved
enough of her share of her loom earnings to
have taken her to Zion, but she, instead,

[Column 2]
gave the money to pay her sister’s fare. She
saw her parents and sisters leave and she
was left alone to earn her way to join them.
	While working toward this end in Ger-
many, she was persecuted and harassed on
account of her belief, but instead of com-
plaining, she felt grateful that she was thus
privileged. At one time she was taken on
a bitter cold night from a nice warm feather
bed to the cold mat of a prison cell. In-
stead of receiving convicting testimony
against the elders, the officers received a bit
of Christ’s gospel. Finally she was able to
leave the mother country and find herself in
New York City, the land of many tongues,
as she often called it. Here she worked
again to get money to take her nearer her
Zion home. New customs, a new language,
new foods, all were trials in their turn. At
last she found herself starting with a Swiss
company at St. Louis to walk the long trail
of the pioneers. “Hard, why, dear children,
that was the happiest, merriest trip I ever
made,” she often told her children and
grandchildren when asked if she didn’t get
tired after one of those long hot tramps on
the desert trail. She walked every step of
the way and enjoyed every minute of the
journey.
	One evening when the company had
camped for the night and the wagon circle
was nearly completed, in the twilight could
be seen a slow moving vehicle and through
the stillness, the rattle of old wheels could
be heard. Two weary missionaries were in
that wagon, one an old man weakened
through age, the other through fever and
ague. They had come from a mission to
the Cherokee Indians and were on their way
to the Church headquarters at Salt Lake
City. They were glad to travel with the
company and the company were doubly
glad because these missionaries were from
the old country, too.
	Mary traveled beside these men and heard
with deep interest the stories of days among
the Lamanites. She learned to love and
respect and admire Henry Eyring, the
younger man of the two, younger even
than herself, but Mary in her robust health
could never have made people believe so.
	From the mutual love which ripened on
this joyous path of romantic courtship
(would you not call it that?) the marriage
of the two in Salt Lake City some months
after the journey’s end took place. Humble
was the home that Brother Eyring offered
his bride, for he found this country so new
that though well educated in the good Ger-
man schools, he found his education did not
bring bread and butter in this pioneer coun-
try. They lived first in Ogden, then in Salt
Lake City. Through exposure and illness
Brother Eyring’s lungs seem to have suf-
fered, and the severe cold of the northern
climate was hard on them. Therefore soon
after their first babe was born they went to
southern Utah, being among the first set-
tlers there.
	There in that land of unfruitful soil and
little rain, they tried to eke out a living.
Many times for months there was little to
eat except greens made from alfalfa and
other greens, and a tiny bit of flour mixed in
with them. In all of Sister Eyring’s life of
toil this one period, she claims, was the only
real hard one.
	Her babies were coming, and also as
Brother Eyring suffered with ill health, her
loom was the breadwinner for the family.

[Column 3]
She had an indomitable will which made her 
physical strength cower before its might. 
Here in St. George, her five other babies
were born, and with one exception were
raised to man and womanhood. She and
her husband helped with all their might in
that band of pioneers to make this desert
blossom as the rose.

	In that land once so drear
		A city like a tropic garden rose;
	And Utah’s first temple tower did rear
		The Saints’ defiance to all foes.

	How grateful Sister Eyring was when
that temple was built, her life’s work alone
can show. She performed her duties out-
side of temple hours, but while the temple
was open she was always a busy worker
there. From then until her death, whether
she was privileged to work personally in
the temple or not, she worked for that great
cause.
	It was love for this work which made
the call to Old Mexico Hard to heed. But
she went with her husband and again
worked with the pioneers of a new land.
	Throughout her life in the Church of
Christ her greatest enjoyment was in work-
ing for others in and out of the women’s
organizations. Especially has her name and
