THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	(Copied from the Original Record.)
	ELIZA R. SNOW, SECRETARY. 
	By invitation of the President of the
Church, a number of sisters convened in
the Masonic Lodge Room on the 17th of
March, 1842. President Joseph Smith,
Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards
were present. 
	President Smith stated that the meeting
was called for the purpose of making more
complete the organization of the Church,
by organizing the women in the order of
the Priesthood. 
	John Taylor was called to the chair and
Willard Richards acted as secretary. Af-
ter singing and prayer a vote was taken
to know if all were satisfied with each sis-
ter present, and willing to acknowledge
them in good fellowship and admit them
to all the privileges of the institution about
to be organized. All being satisfied, the
names of those present were taken as fol-
lows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A. 
Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann
Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona
Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. 
Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Leonora Taylor,
Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Packard, Bathsheba
W. Smith, Sophia Robinson, Philinda Her-
rick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks. 
	President Smith then explained some of
the duties that would devolve on members
of the Society, said they could provoke the
brethren to good works, look after the
needs of the poor, and perform charitable
acts. 
	Woman must assist in correcting the mor-
als, and strengthening the virtues of the
community. Said it is now in order for the
sisters to elect a President to preside over
the Society and let her choose two coun-
selors to assist in the duties of her office. 
He would ordain them and let them pre-
side just as the Presidency preside over
the Church, and if they needed his instruc-
tion, they could ask and he would be pleased
to give it from time to time. Let the Pres-
idency serve as a constitution and their de-
cisions become precedents for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institution, let them be ap-
pointed and set apart as Teachers, Deacons,
etc., are among us. 
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved and So-
phia Packard seconded the motion that Em-
ma Smith be elected President of the So-
ciety; the vote was put by the chairman
and pronounced unanimous. 
	The President Elect made choice of Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney as her counselors. 
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed secretary,
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant secretary,
and Elvira A. Cowles, treasurer. 
	President Joseph Smith read the revela-
tion to Emma Smith, from the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that
she had been ordained at the time the reve-


[Column 1]
lation was given to expound the Scriptures,
to teach, etc. He then read Scriptures to
show that an elect lady is one elected to
preside.
	By request of President Joseph Smith,
Apostle John Taylor ordained Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney to be
counselors and assist President Emma
Smith in the duties of her office and share
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her
former ordination, and blessed her to be a
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue, and
to possess all the qualifications necessary
to enable her to preside with dignity and
give such instruction as may be requisite
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Em-
ma Smith and her counselors took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the
question, “What shall the Society be
called?” Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney ad-
vocated the appropriateness of the name Re-
lief Society. John Taylor and Joseph
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevo-
lent. Emma Smith and E. R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
The gentlemen withdrew their objection and
a motion to adopt the name Relief Society
was unanimously carried.
	President Joseph Smith then said, “I now
declare this Society organized with Presi-
dent and counselors. All who shall here-
after be admitted must be free from cen-
sure and admitted by vote.” President Jo-
seph Smith laid down a five dollar gold
piece to commence a Relief Society fund,
and said, “What I do hereafter for char-
ity I shall do through this society.” Sarah
M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2  cents; Sarah M.
Kimball $1.00; Emma Smith, $1.00; Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, 50 cents; Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00; John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the third meeting of the Society,
March 31st, President Joseph Smith said
the members of the Society must act in
concert, or nothing can be accomplished.
To move acording to the ancient order of
the Priesthood this must be a select So-
ciety, separate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th, said he was
present to speak upon the Priesthood; as
his instructions were intended only for
members of the Society, he wished those
not members to withdraw. After which
he called attention to the 12th chapter of
Corinthians, “Now concerning spiritual
gifts,” etc., said the passage which reads,
“No man can say that Jesus is the Lord
but by the Holy Ghost,” should be trans-
lated, “No man knows,” etc. Continued the
reading of the chapter, and gave instruc-
tions respecting the different offices and the
necessity of every individual acting in the
place allotted to him or her, and filling the
office to which they were appointed. 
	Spoke of the disposition of some to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dis-
honorable and to look with jealous eyes on
the position of others; said it was the non-
sense of the human heart, to aspire to posi-
tions not appointed of God, that it was bet-
ter for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God
shall say to them, “Come up higher.” Said
it was talked by members of the Society
that some were not doing right in laying
hands on the sick. If they had common
sympathy, they would rejoice that the sick
could be healed. The time had not been
before when these things could be in their

[Column 2]
proper order. The Church is not now or-
ganized in its proper order and cannot be
until the temple is completed. He referred
to the commission given to the ancient
apostles, “Go ye into all the world,” no
matter who believes, these signs, such as
healing the sick, casting out devils, should
follow all that believe, whether male or fe-
male.
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to administer
to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the administra-
tion.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault; spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on ac-
count of aspiring men; said the same as-
piring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that he
should have many opportunities of teach-
ing them, they were going to be left to
themselves, they would not long have him
to instruct them, the Church would not
have his instruction long and the world
would not be troubled with him a great
while, according to his prayer God had ap-
pointed him elsewhere.
	The congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith and their
prayers, those whom God had appointed to
lead. Said the keys are about to be given
to you, that you may be able to detect any-
thing false, as readily as the Elders. If
members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them; the sympathies of the
heads of the Church have induced them to
bear with those that are corrupt, in conse-
quence of which all become contaminated;
you must put down iniquity and by your
good example provoke the Elders to good
works.
	If you do right there is no danger of go-
ing too fast, resist evil and there is no dan-
ger, neither God, man, angels or devils can
condemn those that resist everything that is
evil. As well might the devil seek to de-
throne Jehovah as that soul that resists
everything evil. You are now placed in a
situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in
your bosoms. If you live in accord with
your privileges, angels cannot be restrained
from being your associates. Women, if
they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God. If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.
The devil has great power, his ways are de-
ceptive. Do not be contentious, but let the
weight of innocence be felt, which is more
mighty that a millstone hung about the
neck. Meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
vail will be rent, and the blessings of heaven
will flow down.
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible, it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
	He then read the 13th chapter of Corin-
thians. “Though I speak with the tongues
of angels,” etc.; said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’
virtues, do not think yourselves more right-

[Column 3]
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do like
Jesus and carry your fellow creatures to
Abraham’s bosom. He had manifested
long-suffering and we must do the same.
Said, “Though we have the spirit of proph-
ecy,” etc. Though one should become
mighty and do great things, overturn
mountains, and then turn to do that which
is evil, all former deeds would not save
them, but they would go to destruction. As
you increase in innocence, virtue and good-
ness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others; you must be long
suffering and bear with the faults and er-
rors of mankind. How precious the souls
of men! The Society is to get instruction
through the order which God has estab-
lished, through the medium of those ap-
pointed to lead, and I now turn the key to
you in the name of God, and this Society
shall rejoice and knowledge and intelli-
gence shall flow down from this time; this
is the beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned it may extend to
all the world. But your administrations
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially the mem-
bers of the Society. Those ordained to
lead the Society are authorized to appoint
officers as the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge much
in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take
advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your com-
fort. But I lay this down as a rule, that if
anything is taught by the gift of tongues,
it is not to be received for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the sick
by the laying on of hands, said it was ac-
cording to revelation, he never was placed
in similar circumstances, and never had
given the same instruction.
	At the ninth meeting May 26th, the
Prophet read the 14th chapter of Ezekiel
and said the Lord declared by that prophet
that the people should each one stand for
themselves and depend on no man or men;
in the state of corruption in the Jewish
church that righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Latter-
day Staints. If the people depart from the
Lord they must fall, they were depending
on the Prophet, hence there was darkness
in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech; no
organized society can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bodies
have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and
difficulties, the object is to make those not
so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to
virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away. God
designs to save the people out of their sins.
Jesus said, “Ye shall do the works which
ye have seen me do;” these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon.


Tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop
N. K. Whitney, President Joseph Smith be-
ing present. 
	Eleventh meeting, June 11th. Presiden[-]
Joseph Smith. It grieves me that there is
no fuller fellowship, if one member suf-
fers all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God; Christ said He came
to call sinners to repentance, and to save
them. Christ was condemned by the right-
eous Jews because He took sinners into His
society, he took them upon the principle
that they repent. Nothing is so much cal-
culated to lead people to forsake sin as to
take them by the hand and watch over them
with tenderness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls. 
I say to this Society if you would have God
to have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other. How mild the Savior dealt with
Peter, saying, “When thou art converted
strengthen thy brethren.” At another time
He said to him, “Lovest thou me? Feed my
sheep.” The Society is not only to relieve
the poor but to save souls. 
	Sixteenth meeting, held in the Grove,
Aug. 31st, 1842. After relating recent diffi-
culties President Joseph Smith had encoun-
tered while being hunted by his enemies,
