		PERCIA BUNNELL.

	Read by Mrs. Melissa Bunnell Williams.
	Sister Percia Grover Bunnell, daughter
of Thomas Grover and Caroline Nickerson,
was born December 27, 1841, in Nauvoo,
Ill. She lived there with her parents until
she was five years old, when they left for
the Rocky Mountains with the first company
of pioneers. While crossing the Mississippi
river February, 1846, in a ferry boat, one of 
her grandfather’s oxen jumped overboard.
In jumping around he knocked a board
from the bottom of the boat, which sank im-
mediately. Grandfather signalled another
boat which came to their rescue. They were 
all soaked through—bedding, provisions and 
everything in the wagon. Notwithstanding
this misfortune not one received any ill
effects. The journey was continued as far
as Pisgah, but after arriving there, on ac-
count of the few teams and heavily loaded
wagons, it was decided that the families be
divided and part sent back to Nauvoo.
Grandmother and her children were among
this number. The following September
they started again with mother’s grand-
parents, Grandmother Grover having a
young babe but twenty-four hours old. After
traveling two hundred miles sickness befell
them and great-grandfather and three sons
died, leaving grandmother and her mother
with five small children to care for. They
resumed their journey as far as Council
Bluffs, when they were again detained for
want of means. So grandmother stayed
there, taking in washing, sewing, nursing
the sick, or anything she could get to do.
They stayed there until 1850, when grand-
father sent means for them to come to the
valley. They arrived in Salt Lake City in 
September, 1850, having suffered many
hardships on their journey. They lived
there two years, grandmother teaching
school for support. In 1852 she moved to
Provo, where she has since lived. Mother
and father were married in 1856; they had
twelve children, four of whom are living.
Mother suffered all the hardships incident
to pioneer life. She attended the first Re-
lief Society organized in Provo, acted as
teacher in the Third ward seven years; also
was appointed president of the teachers in
Lake View ward. In 1878 was chosen pres-
ident of the Lake View Relief Society,
which position she held six years. In 1901
was chosen second counselor to Sister Mary
John and labored as such until Sister John's
death, when she was honorably released and 
chosen an an aid, where she still labors. She 
has always been ready to help the poor,
nurse the sick, and although she is 71 years
old, continues in this good work. 

