day as his. St. Patrick was a true saint of
God. A saint is a person endowed with a
sublime spirit of prayer, purity of heart,
and perfect charity and humility.
	Such people God chooses to act as his in-
struments on earth.
	During the close of the fourth century, in
a little town in Scotland, a boy was born
called Patrick. His parents were of a good
Roman family. He was tenderly nurtured
and reared in the Christian faith. He lived
on the farm with his parents until he was
sixteen years of age, when a band of
pirates visited that part of the country and
carried off a great many of the young peo-
ple, among them the boy Patrick. He was
taken into Ireland and forced to tend cattle
and swine. He went through many hard-
ships, such as danger and cold. He endured
these trials for six long years, and it was
during this time that his intense religious
nature was developed.
	He fasted and prayed day and night to
be able to stand these persecutions. He
made as many as one hundred prayers in
a night and the same during the day. One
night he had a dream in which it was made
known to him to return to Scotland. He at
once planned to escape, which he succeeded
in doing and made his way on foot two
hundred miles to the sea coast. When he
arrived there he found a ship ready to sail;
having no money he begged the captain to
be allowed to work his way, but the cap-
tain sternly refused. He turned to go back
with a sad heart, and prayed earnestly to
God to help him. He had not gone far when
he was suddenly called back by the sailors
who told him the captain had relented.
	During the voyage he preached a great
deal to the sailors and taught them to have
faith in God. When they reached land they
found themselves in a barren waste of coun- 
try and had to travel for many days on foot.
They were often without food and at one
time actually faced starvation. The captain
asked this boy preacher why he did not call
upon God to help them. He replied if they
would turn to the Lord in faith their prayers
would be answered. This they did, and that
very same day they came across a herd of
swine, and were never without food again.
	Patrick finally reached his home and was
received with great joy and gladness. After
a few years he had a vision in which God
told him he was to perform the great work
of converting the Irish. He immediately
began to prepare himself for this mission.
After studying hard for four years he
gained permission from the Pope to set
about this work. So he departed once more
for Ireland.
	He found the people to be a lot of bar-
barians worshiping idols; he worked un-
ceasingly among them day and night. He
traveled from one end of the island to the
other exposing himself to great danger. In
a short time his labors were rewarded and

[Column 2]
he baptized many, ordained clergymen and
established monasteries, and in time all of
the people were converted and Ireland be-
came a garden in the Church.
