SUFFRAGISTS AND SUFFRAGETTES.
	It seems almost impossible for the public
to distinguish the difference between the
two organizations of women known as the
Suffrage organization and the Suffragette
society.
	The first, the suffragists, is that notable
body of women who have firmly but quietly
and decisively carried on an educational
campaign for the right of franchise; a
noble and notable army of women with live
leaders like Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott and others,
who have held congresses and conventions
in nearly all the large cities of the world;
who have proclaimed their gospel of equal
suffrage from the platform and through the
press but have never resorted to any dem-
onstration beyond the dignity of the most
refined, although at times they have them-
selves been boisterously assailed and most
unkindly and unjustly ridiculed and mis-
represented through the press.
	The second, the suffragettes, are a mili-
tant organization of women who endeavor
to gain the right of franchise through force
rather than education, through demand
rather than persuasion; claiming that what
is the right of men is equally the right of
women and needs no argument.
	That the end hoped for is the same need
not imply that either organization neces-
sarily justifies the other in its mode of pro-
cedure. Whatever the suffragettes may
think of the educational plan, it is quite
certain the suffragists do not approve of
the militants when they go so far as to
destroy property, threaten life, interfere
with the mail and incite to panic and riot.
The law is the law and when one breaks a
law, man or woman, then is he or she sub-
ject to the penalty of the offense. It is this
misunderstanding among the masses of the
people, this not being able to distinguish be-
tween the two, this thinking that if a woman
wants to vote she must necessarily be a
militant law-breaker and window smasher,
that has retarded and hurt the suffrage
cause more than anything else. In all prob-
ability it was this same misunderstanding
which caused the trouble in Washington
during the suffrage parade the day before
President Wilson’s inauguration. The lower
element of the city, the hoodlums and igno-
rant masses, assailed without resistance from


a likewise ignorant police force, a most rep-
resentative and intelligent body of AMerican
women and not only destroyed the effect of
a classical and beautiful procession but in-
jured their bodies and insulted their souls. 
	For months preparations were being
made for this procession. Letters had been
written to the prominent organizations of
every state in the Union. The designer’s
art had been called into service for unique
floats and telling costumes. Banners, flags
and pennants had been painted and em-
broidered. Horses, carriages and automo-
biles had been engaged, while bands and
drum corps had been making ready for some
time. An imposing and magnificent array
which might have told in symbol to the
people gathered at the capital from all over
the United States for the inaugural cere-
monies, something of the numerical and in-
tellectual strength of the suffrage cause,
had not that brutal, ignorant, seething mass
of humanity been allowed to break the ranks
and scatter and hurl the columns of march-
ing women into confusion. Such proceed-
ings are a shame to American manhood and
especially to a city government which can
offer no protection when protection most is
needed. It is to be hoped that the investiga-
tion into the inaction of the police depart-
ment will be thorough and the findings will
be adequate for such dereliction. The suf-
frage cause is advancing at any rate stead-
ily and surely, and no amount of brutal and
ignorant opposition can stop the progress of
so just and good a movement. 
