ized the Relief Society. There were present
eighteen women and three men in a room
over the Nauvoo store called the Masonic
Hall, when the prophet uttered the strange
sentence. The society had been duly organ-
ized with a president, two counselors, a sec-
retary, assistant secretary and treasurer; the
name had been decided upon and some dis-
cussion as to the work to be performed, when
Joseph proceeded to give instruction and in
a brief way outline the duties of the society,
during which instruction the words above
quoted were uttered. Remember, in eigh-
teen forty-two not a college in the world
had opened its doors to women. There were
no clubs, societies or organizations of wo-
men any where. Women’s education was
almost entirely along lines of fine accom-
plishments such as fitted her to grace a ball
room or a family parlor but to unfit her to
meet life and its issues without the aid
of man to lean upon. She was trained
much on the theory of the clinging vine and
hothouse notion and not at all fitted for
the strength of self-support or the throes of
adversity; all of which training is charm-
ing and quite sufficient when a sturdy oak
in the shape of a prosperous well-disposed
husband can be guaranteed for ever and for-
ever. But alas for the wars and other con-
ditions that hew down the sturdy oaks and
leave mothers, wives, sweethearts to stand
and fight alone life’s battles!
	Glance back seventy-one years; what a
marvelous change for woman—professors,
doctors, lawyers, bachelors of art, literature,
science: states women, police women, may-
ors, members of city councils, juvenile
judges, and numerous other positions held
by woman while in matters of education
she claims her place on the same basis as
her brother, the basis of intellectuality.
	The key was indeed turned for woman.
That glorious thought vibrated throughout


the earth, over mountain and sea, and the
daughters of the universe have received its
benediction. Written words could no more
tell the magnificent work of the members of
