	MARILLA MILLER DANIELS.

	Read by Mrs. Pearl Daniels Thomas.
	Sister Marilla Miller Daniels was born
October 12, 1830, in Haddam, Middlesex
County, Conn. Her father Aaron Johnson
and her mother Zerviah Kelsey, joined the
Church in 1836, and in the following spring
left their home, associations and all ties of
kindred for the gospel sake, traveling over-
land through central New York to Kirtland,
Ohio; this being the first place appointed


for the gathering of the Saints, and here
their first Temple was built. The first time
she ever saw the Prophet Joseph Smith was
at a fast meeting held in the Kirtland Tem-
ple in 1837, when he addressed the Saints. 
One would have to see him in order to un-
derstand the glorious inspiration that over-
shadowed him. The impression that he
made upon her mind at that time has never
left her, although she is now in her 83rd
year. And many times after that she en-
joyed the privilege of hearing him speak
and has never doubted the divinity of his 
mission. Her family were quite intimate
with the Prophet Joseph, and his family, as
neighbors, living only across the street from
each other. In the early spring of 1838 her
father’s family arrived in Far West, Mo.,
but they were only permitted to remain
there until March of the following year, on
account of the exterminating order of Gov.
Boggs, for them to leave the state. In the 
spring of 1839 they again left their home
and moved to Commerce, Illinois, which
was afterward called Nauvoo. Here her
father built three houses and they remained
there seven years. She has a distinct recol-
lection of the martyrdom of the Prophet and
his brother Hyrum, and the terrible scenes
enacted at that time. At the age of four-
teen years she was teaching school in Nau-
voo to about thirty pupils, and our President
Joseph F. Smith, also others of Brother
Hyrum’s family, were among them. Here
she met and married William Miller, the
ceremony being performed in the Nauvoo
Temple. In the spring of 1849 she left for
Utah, her husband being captain of the com-
pany. They arrived in Salt Lake in Sep-
tember of the same year, remaining there
one year. Her husband William Miller
founded the town of Springville and they
in company with her father’s family settled
there, living there ten years. Her mother
and only brother died of cholera on the 
plains in 1850 and were buried by the road-
side. This was a terrible blow to her as
she was anxiously awaiting the arrival of 
her mother and other relatives. In 1860 her
husband was called to act as President of
Utah stake, which necessitated their mov-
ing to Provo, where she has since resided.
Her husband died Aug. 7, 1875. Some
years later she married James E. Daniels.
She has been identified with the Relief So-
ciety ever since its first organization in
Utah. She has led a very active life and 
devoted much time to public work, having 
been a teacher in the Theological class of 
the Sunday School for a period of nineteen
years; was president and also a teacher of
the Primary association in her ward; was
also first counselor to Mary John in the 
Utah Stake Relief Society for many years.
In September, 1892, she was appointed as
president of the World’s Fair commission
for Utah county, and worked most assidu-
ously to make a success of the World’s Fair
exhibit from Utah, traveling and organiz-
ing clubs throughout the county. For sev-
eral years she acted as vice president of the
Woman Suffrage Association of Utah
county, and was sent as a delegate to the
27th annual convention of the National
American Suffrage Association, held in At-
lanta, Ga. After the death of President
Mary John, Sister Daniels was honorably
released from the presidency of the Relief
Society and was appointed as an honorary
counselor and member of the stake board
which position she now holds.


