		THE LIVING WAGE. 
	The members of the vice investigation 
committee of Chicago came across so many
shocking and surprising facts connected
with the downfall of girls that they have
referred the matter to President Wilson, be-
lieving that only by national legislation can
existing conditions be rectified. There have
already been some splendid results from the
publicity of the investigations. The Na-
tional Harvester company has increased the
salaries of its women employees, and other
large institutions are taking steps to do the
same, while the states which have legisla-
tion pending connected with the “living
wage” subject are likely to pass some
measures of benefit to the working woman. 
	The Utah legislature enacted a minimum
wage measure which has received the gov-
ernor’s signature and will go into effect im-
mediately. To the credit of the state, be it
said that Utah is the first state to fix a scale
of wages for the working girl. The mini-
mum is low, it is true, and not what the
friends of the measure desired, but it is a
step in the right direction, and will raise the
standard and respect of the girl herself to
know she has a law to befriend and protect
her. 
	One other excellent measure enacted by
the Utah legislature connected with the
working girl, was the one which provided
for a woman deputy on the Commission of
Immigration, Labor and Statistics. It will
be the duty of this woman deputy to see
that the state laws are enforced in regard
to the employment of women and children
in the different industries in the state. When
one considers the large number of women
employed in the different mercantile estab-
lishments, the laundries, the hospitals, the

[Column 2]
biscuit and candy factories, box factories,
hotels and restaurants, not to mention
schools where about ninety per cent of the
teachers are women, one wonders that so
long a time should have passed in a suffrage
state without such an officer.
	With a good, competent woman holding
this position, the working girl will feel
greater security in her work; she will know
that there is some one with authority look-
ing after her interests. The industries need
not suffer in consequence of these measures,
in fact they ought to prosper, as all things
do, where a proper understanding exists be-
tween employer and employee, on a basis
of something like equality. It may not, per-
haps, be very well known that many estab-
lishments in Salt Lake City employ young
girls at the rate of fifty-three and a half
cents a day, and some even less, expecting
a good nine-hour day’s work. With these
two measures enforced, such a condition is
now impossible. 
	While probably there will always exist
evil and girls will fall from the path of
rectitude, yet with good laws on the statute
books of the state and good officers to en-
force the laws, there is protection for the
working girl and safer conditions around
her. The low wage and poor environment
may not be the greatest or only causes of
immorality, but they are undoubtedly im-
portant factors in driving girls to lives of
shame. 
	The fact that when a girl lives at home
she does not need such high wages as the
girl who comes from the country and has
to pay for her room and board as well as
clothes, is one argument the employer makes
that he always inquires if his apprentices
live at home and the wage in such cases
ranges from two dollars and a half to four
dollars a week. Now, does it stand to rea-
son that parents would send their girls into
the whirl and sorrow of the factory or the
shop if her wage was not to become a factor
in the support of the home? One does not
need to follow the investigations of “vice
committees” in Chicago or any of the big
cities; all one needs to do is to look around
at home in one’s own town or city and learn
something of the conditions of the labor-
ing class; that as soon as children are
old enough they are taken from school and
forced into the “madding crowd” in pursuit
of money to help pay perhaps the house
rent, or the interest on the mortgaged home,
to help clothe and feed those still younger
and the work worn mother. Many of these
working girls are underfed and life in youth
becomes care and burden when it should be
a joy and delight. When the nation or the
individual states have legislation to amelior-
ate these conditions then are we progressing
towards the plane of universal brotherhood;
when the manufacturer or the merchant can
realize that those whom he employs are en-
titled to a reasonable and sufficient wage,
in fact when he will concede that he does
not need ninety-five per cent of his profits
while his employees divide the remaining
five, then perhaps will begin the solving of
that perplexing national question—“Labor
and Capital.”
	The women of the country have agitated
legislation along these lines for some time
past and now when women are beginning to
have a hand and an influence in the making
of the laws, the fruit of their labors is being
realized. In four of the suffrage states,
Colorado, Utah, Washington, and Califor-

[Column 3]
