[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Eyring]
LESSON DEPARTMENT this he. Wept. Again" (3 Nephi 17:21-22). 'The Savior then asked the multitude to look at their. Little ones, and, as they looked, angels came down, and encircled the little children, and ministered unto them. Institution of Sacrament Jesus instituted the ordinance of the sacrament among the Nephites. The disciples were told that they must partake of the sacrament in remembrance of Christ's body and blood that it should be a testimony unto the Father that they would always remember him. 'They were promised that if they would do this, his spirit would always be with them, and that it would show their willingness to do that which Jesus had commanded them. Jesus instructed the Nephites to pray always, saying: ye must watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation for Satan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat (3 Nephi 18:18). And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my church, among my people who do repent, and are baptized in my name. Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you (3 Nephi 18:16). He instructed the disciples further that if a man is unworthy to partake of the sacrament he should be forbidden. However, he should not be cast out from among them, but be ministered to by them and be prayed for. 'Then, if he repents and is baptized, he should be received by them and be given the sacrament. If a man would not repent they were still to continue to minister to him in case he might return and. Repent. Which, if he 479 did, and came to the Savior with full purpose of heart, the Savior would heal him and the people would be the means of bringing salvation to him. (See 3 Nephi 18: 28-32. ) _ Jesus then " touched with his hand.." (3 Nephi 18:36) the twelve disciples, giving them power to bestow the Holy Ghost. He then departed from them and ascended into heaven. Bestowal of Holy Ghost Word soon spread among the people that Jesus would appear on the next day. On that day, the twelve disciples appeared before the assembled group. 'The assembly was so large that it was divided into twelve groups, over each one of which a disciple presided. The disciples prayed that the Holy Ghost should be given unto them. '"... Nephi went down into the water and was baptized And he baptized all those whom Jesus had chosen" (3 Nephi 19:11-12). When they came up out of the water "... The Holy Ghost did fall upon them..." (3 Nephi 19:13). Angels came down and ministered to the disciples. While this was taking place "... Jesus came and stood in the midst and ministered unto them" (3 Nephi 19:15). Jesus went a short distance and prayed as follows: Father, I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto these whom I have chosen; and it is because of their belief in me that I have chosen them out of the world.. Father, I pray thee that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto all them that shall believe in their words, 480 Father, thou hast given them the Holy Ghost because they believe in me; and thou seest that they believe in me because thou hearest them, and they pray unto me; and they pray unto me _ because I am with them. And now Father, I pray unto thee for them, and also for all those who shall believe on their words, that they may believe in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one (3 Nephi 19:20-23). After Jesus had finished praying, he commended the disciples on their faith, saying:... So great faith have I never seen among all the Jews; wherefore I could not show unto them so great miracles, because of their unbelief.... There are none of them that have seen so great things as ye have seen; neither have they heard so great things as ye have heard (3 Nephi 19:35-36). Jesus then commanded the multitude and the disciples to arise and cease praying, but he admonished them to pray always in their hearts. Jesus miraculously provided the sacrament and:... He brake bread again and blessed it, and gave to the disciples to eat. And when they had eaten he commanded them that they should break bread, and give unto the multitude... He also gave them wine to drink... (3 Nephi 20:3-5). The Gospel in the Latter Days The Savior advised the Nephites that in the latter days the gospel should be preached to the Jews and that they would accept it. "Then," he said, "will the Father gather them together again, and give unto them Jerusalem for the land of their inheritance" (3 Nephi 20:33). Given this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 That the people of the latter days might be. Fully aware of the time when these events would occur, Jesus gave the Nephites the sign of the Father's work. "...