[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 14 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Occasions]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Lily N. Hortnagl Makes Handicraft Gifts for Many Occasions]
is  the  Trailside  Museum.  This  mu- 
seum features  live  exhibits  of  the 
fauna  and  flora  of  the  Arizona- 
Sonora  desert.  The  larger  animals 
include  the  peccary  —  or  wild  hog 
—  mountain  lion,  wildcat,  ocelot, 
etc.     The  small  animal  room   in-

OLD  TUCSON 
433 
Willard  Luce 
MOVIE  SET  OF  "OLD  TUCSON/'  TUCSON  MOUNTAIN  PARK 
ARIZONA 
eludes   live    species    of   centipedes,  study  the  desert  wild  life  at  first 
scorpions,     lizards,     rodents,     and  hand. 
snakes.     Trails    lead    through    the         So,  even  if  Old  Tucson  isn't  as 
botanical  gardens  where  the  plants  old  as  it  sounds,  it's  an  interesting 
are    well     labeled.     Desert     water  place  to  visit,  especially  if  you  take 
holes   have   been   so   placed   as   to  in   the   rest   of   Tucson   Mountain 
give  the  visitor  an  opportunity  to  Park. 
Vacation 
Grace  Barker  Wilson 
The  shades  are  drawn,  the  doors  are  closed, 
And  all  about  an  empty  look 
Proclaims  a  solitary  house 
That  somebody  forsook. 
Around  the  yard  the  grass  grows  tall, 
And  weeds  crowd  every  flower  bed; 
The  stray  dogs  in  the  neighborhood 
Hold  counsel  there,  instead. 
At  night  the  darkened  windows  have 
A  ghastly,  special  glare,  and  some, 
Both  animals  and  flowers,  wish 
The  owners  would  come  home.

Cathy  and  the  Onions 
Florence  Benett  Dunfoid 
THOUGH  home  was  just  next  on  my  feet  after  the  flood/'  Cathy's 
door  to  their  cousin  Theo-  father  said,  apologetically.  Until 
dore's,  less  than  a  third  of  a  the  summer  before  they'd  lived  on 
country  block  apart,  Cathy  Ben-  a  ranch.  But  the  Dry  Bed  had 
nett  was  so  weary  she  thought  she  overflowed  its  banks.  Now  they 
could  not  make  it.  Theodore's  were  back  in  Menan  again,  but  the 
mother  had  nine  boys.  Naturally  job  at  the  flour  mill  didn't  pay 
it  was  almost  impossible  to  keep  a  enough  for  new  dresses.  Even 
hired  girl.  The  morning  before  Cathy  could  see  that, 
when  Uncle  Stanley  had  appealed  Cathy  backed  down  the  steps. 
to  her  father,  Cathy  had  offered  to  There  was  a  hopelessness  in  her  par- 
help  out.  For  eight  hours  on  ents'  voices,  that  meant  defeat.  Only 
Thursday  and  until  noon  on  Fri-  Cathy  wouldn't  admit  failure.  Her 
day,  she  had  stood  at  the  ironing  sister,  Jinny,  who  was  eight,  came 
board  and  ironed  nothing  but  up  at  that  moment, 
shirts.  "Mother  can't  go  to  Aunt  Mae's 
I  never  want  to  see  another  boy's  party  because  she  hasn't  anything 
shirt,  she  thought,  as  she  opened  to  wear,"   Cathy  told  Jinny  there 
the  screen  door.    She  stopped  short,  in  the  sun-baked  dooryard. 
Her  father  and  mother  were  in  the  "Tho  what?"  Jinny  lisped, 
long  narrow  kitchen  with  its  blue  "Tho  ...  we  have  to  do  some- 
and   white   linoleum   and   polished  thing." 
range,  talking  in  low  tones.  "Didn't  Uncle  Stanley  pay  youoh 
"I'm    sorry,"    her    mother    said,  anything  for  awning?"  Jinny  asked, 
brushing  at  a   wing   of   dark  hair,  It  was  warm,  the  first  of  June.    The 
"I'd  like  to  go  to  the  party.    But  I  Idaho   sun   turned  Jinny's  hair   to 
just   can't.      I   haven't  a   thing   to  flame. 
wear  except  one  of  those  old  Moth-  "Of    course    not,"    Cathy    said. 
er-Hubbards.     I'm  tired  of  those."  "That  was  a  favor." 
"I  know  you  are."  Cathy's  father's*  "Well,  whyn't  you  ask  Thindoo?" 
voice  was  tender.    "But  still  you've  Thindoo  was  the  best  Jinny  could
