[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
The mysterious world lies all around EDITORIAL the infant — to be explored — the texture of a petal, the satin lining of a quilt, the windowpane — and then all the further. Knowledge breaking upon his consciousness. Wonderful is the frontier of childhood and privileged those who may Share and influence that journey which reaches through family patterns into the far eternity. Each picture first seen, all the music heard and learned, are pathways of satisfaction where, in the mind and spirit, one may feel the joy of discovery. Who has fully discovered the treasures along scriptural highways? Each reading and re-reading may become a frontier of spiritual heights. Recall the Proverb, speaking of wisdom: The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning.... When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water. 443 fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world (Proverbs 8:22-26). For us in the Church, our own Relief Society, established when Nauvoo the Beautiful was a frontier city, for us the world-wide sisterhood offers a broad and shining pathway into new interests and accomplishments, a journeying into regions of the mind and spirit not known before. For all of us there are illuminating and satisfying experiences in every meeting, every activity — new friends, new thoughts, new knowledge, further enlightenment, and the ever-increasing unity of the sisterhood. Once a poet in reverie asked, "What canst thou find with seeking which hath not long been found?" There is much to be found with seeking which we have not yet experienced, and the place to find our beckoning horizons is still along the far and near frontiers. We still shall find "the heaven for height, and the Before the mountains were settled, before earth for depth (Proverbs the hills was I brought forth. While as AG 2). I yet he had not made the earth, nor the —V a. C. ~~ >_> G randfather s Cello Dora Toone Brough The oxen trudged along, their pace was slow, Week after week across that sun-scorched plain; Grandfather's cello tied to a wagon bow— It came out West in a pioneer train. Yes, it must come, no matter what the risk For why should he leave such a treasured thing? And cello music could be loud and brisk By campfire glow, to help them dance and sing. It found its way into a hall of fame, That grand old Playhouse known from East to West? Those music makers of the past became Most famous, too, they were among the best. Now, in his grandson's home it shall endure Close by grandmother's loom, safe and secure.