[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: Why Shakespeare? , Briant S. Jacobs]
Measure  for  Measure,  I.  1.30-36 
VyERE  English  literature  to  be 
compared  to  the  universe, 
Shakespeare  would  be  the  sun, 
about  which  all  others  circle  to  feel 
the  warming  influence  of  its  out- 
standing glow.  To  bask  in  Shake- 
speare's life-giving  zest  and  gusto, 
to  be  quickened  by  the  sheer  clean- 
ness and  precision  of  his  words,  to 
be  awed  by  his  wisdom  and  justice 
as  he  shares  with  us  his  probings 
deep  into  the  human  heart  and  the 
mysteries  of  mortality  —  in  these 
realms  of  highest  adventure  Shake- 
speare is  our  supreme  guide  and 
spokesman,  and  has  been  for  cen- 
turies. Time  has  proved  him  moral 
and  true;  his  virtues  reveal  him  as 
brilliant  and  just;  his  selfless  hu- 
mility proclaims  him  worthy  of  the 
sustained  love  of  mankind.  None 
of  our  writers  has  received  more 
love  or  deserved  more,  than  he. 
Love  cannot  be  commanded  or 
forced,  it  must  be  earned,  usually 
by  giving  oneself  to  others.  Shake- 
speare has  given  himself  to  others 
so   abundantly   that   rarely  are  we 
Page  484 
fully  aware  of  our  debt.  For  cen- 
turies he  has  been  the  most  widely 
quoted  man  in  our  culture,  sur- 
passed only  by  the  Bible.  Actually 
he  constantly  places  more  words  in 
our  mouths  than  any  of  us  realize. 
"Brevity  is  the  soul  of  wit"  (to 
quote  Shakespeare),  and  well-turned 
phrases  are  so  rare  because  so  few 
mortals  have  ever  been  able  to  put 
the  nub  of  the  matter  into  a  few 
memorable  words.  Best  proof  that 
Shakespeare  is  the  master  phrase- 
maker  of  the  language  is  to  cite  a 
few  of  his  contributions  to  our 
everyday  language  which  after  cen- 
turies still  survive.  For  how  many 
of  the  following  have  you  ever  ex- 
pressed gratitude  to  Shakespeare? 
There's  something  in  the  wind  (Com- 
edy of  Errors);  play  fast  and  loose,  out 
of  the  question  (Love's  Labour's  Lost); 
single  blessedness,  the  course  of  true  love 
never  runs  smooth  (Midsummer  Night's 
Dream);  halcyon  days  (I  Henry  VI);  paint 
the  lily,  elbow  room,  cold  comfort  (King 
John);  what's  in  a  name?  a  fool's  para- 
dise (Romeo  and  Juliet);  my  own  flesh 
and  blood,  it's  a  wise  father  that  knows

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
485
