[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Audio Visual Aids for 1956-57 | Author: Mildred B. Eyring]
Audio Visual Aids for 1956-57 Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society HE value of teaching aids and the wise use of them should be understood by all Relief Society officers and teachers. To aid means to help or assist. Any device which does not clarify a lesson or project, attract and hold interest, or assist members in remembering important points, is not really an aid, and should be discarded. New workers in Relief Society, particularly, should read the articles on Audio-Visual Aids which have appeared in The Relief Society Mag- - azine in recent years: January 1953, page 27; June 1953, page 418; June 1954, page 40o; and June 1955, page 03.: The exchange of ideas for teaching aids in stake union meeting is most important. Each ward class leader can give her ideas, and, in turn, will receive many more ideas from the class leaders of the other wards. 'The stake leader will be there to give her information, wise direction, and counsel to the planning. In the stake conventions this year many suggestions are being given to stake leaders regarding visual aids for this coming year's work. These will be helpful as will be also the written material which ls being left in the stakes. Theology — "Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon" 1. Blackboard 2. A growing chart 3. A brief review chart is being left with stake leaders in the conventions. 4. Graphic chart of the records kept by Book of Mormon people, Relief Society Magazine, July 1951, PP. 476-477. I (Theology leaders might be interested in the comparative chart of events in The Book of Mormon, Bible, and world history given in the August 1955 issue of The Instructor, page 256. 'his issue may be purchased from the Deseret Sunday School Union, 50 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.) Page 4/5 476 Visiting Teacher Messages "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth" 1. Blackboard or chart giving the quotations from 'The Book of Mormon. 2. Blackboard or chart giving the objective of the lesson. 3. Blackboard or chart giving the special points to be stressed. Literature "Shakespeare in Our Lives" 1. Blackboard. 2. Pictures in the text including the plan of a Shakespearean 'Theater (Text, Plate V). 3. Pictures from the Perry Picture Company, Malden, Massachusetts. (Send fifteen cents for their catalogue direct to the company.) 4. Some of Shakespeare's poems have been given musical settings and are available in sheet music. See June 1956 Relief Society Magazine, page 410. Some songs may be found in old song books. "Who Is Sylvia?" with music by Schubert is familiar to many. Social Science "Latter-day Saint Family Life" 1. Blackboard. 2. Pictures of the Prophet Joseph Smith, his mother, their homes in Palmyra and Nauvoo, and many others can be obtained from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The price is 5c each for black and white and loc each for colored pictures. 3. Pictures and information in A Centenary of Relief Society. 4. A comparative chart showing the position of women in 1842 and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 1956 is being given to stake leaders in stake conventions. 5- Ihe History of Joseph Smith by His Mother Lucy Mack Smith is a reference book for class leaders. 6. Lists of many articles published in The Relief Society Magazine are being left with stake leaders in the conventions. FXECUTIVES, choristers, organists, Magazine representatives, and work meeting leaders should also be aware of the value of good visual aids and make use of them in their work. The executives of stakes and wards are being given suggestions in the conventions for visual aids in publicizing the March and November Fast Sunday night meetings