[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Lessons]
Notes TO THE FIELD Buying Sexthooks for Relicf Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and ward should present to the president of the respective organizations, a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. 'The education counselors should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. —_- deer Mabel Jones Gabbott Years are but soundless shells beside life's sea, When filled with only days and days, Yet each returns a muted symphony, When crowned with kindly gracious ways. Page 444 Lily il Hortnagl Mlakes Handicraft Gifts for Mlany Occasions ae Norton Scott Hortnagl of Long Beach, California, has done many kinds of work, but the "odd" minutes she has spent on her handicraft hobbies have netted her a rich reward and have given happiness to hundreds of her relatives and friends. She has made sixteen star quilts, and each of her children received a star quilt as a wedding gift. She has crocheted many doilies, pot holders, tablecloths, lace for many pillowships, and hundreds of other items. She has made baskets from greeting cards, has painted tea towels, and has done both hand and machine sewing of all kinds. Her work has won awards at fairs on different occasions, and two years ago she won a first prize for making a man's shirt, which was exhibited at the Arizona State Fair in Phoenix. Mrs. Hortnag] was born in Colonia Dublan, Mexico, and was married to Charles B. Scott in 1910. In 1927 she was left a widow with six children. In Pomerene, Arizona, she served nine years as postmistress, and, supplementing this occupation with janitorial work at might, she made a living for her family. With the help of her thirteen-year-old son, she built a house, using second-hand brick, rocks from the hills, and sand from the creek. She mixed the concrete with a hand mixer. When she was ready for the roof, all the men from the town helped put up the gable ends ready to be shingled. While Mrs. Hortnagl was tacking on the shingles, the Relief Society visiting teachers came. "Don't come down," they called, "we will give you our message and you can hear from where you are. 'The message is: 'Beautify Your Homes.' You are setting an example." In 1932 she was married to Lorenz Hortnagl and moved to California. She filled two stake missions and, in 1950, accompanied her husband to Switzerland for a twoyear mission. She has been a visiting teacher since 1910, and for thirteen years she made a one-hundred per cent record without a break. She has twenty-three grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. She has compiled a beautiful "Book of Remembrance' and loves to write. Mrs. Hortnagl says that she hopes she will never be "laid on the shelf."