[Vol43 | July 1956 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
The Danish Mission Preston R. Nibley T the October Conference of the Church, held in Salt Lake City in 1849, Erastus Snow, thirty-one years of age, a member of the Council of the 'I'welve, was selected to open a mission for the Church "in the Scandinavian Countries." Elders Peter O. Hansen and John E. Forsgren were called to accompany him. Elder Hansen was a native of Denmark and had begun to translate The Book of Mormon into the Danish language before leaving America. When these brethren reached England, in April 1850, Elder Snow requested George P. Dykes, an elder laboring in that country, to join them, as he had some knowledge of the Norwegian language; the missionaries then continued their journey and arrived in Copenhagen, Denmark, on June 14, 1850. In delivering their message to the Danish people, they met with almost immediate success and, on August 12, 1850, less than two months after their arrival, Erastus Snow baptized fifteen converts "in the clear salt water of the Sound." A branch of the Church was organized in Copen By Ewing Galloway, New York - NEW KING'S MARKET, COPENHAGEN, DENMARK Page 426 THE DANISH MISSION 427 Lind Studios Submitted by Mary G. Sorensen GEELS FOREST IN HOLTE, NEAR COPENHAGEN, DENMARK hagen on September 15, following. Other elders arrived in the mission and the work of proselyting was gradually extended to all parts of Denmark. Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian and a native of Denmark, computed in 1930 that 26,656 of his countrymen had joined the Church since the introduction of the gospel in 1850, eighty years previously. During that time, also, he stated, 13,984 of these baptized had "emlgrated to Zion." Denmark remained a part of the Scandinavian Mission until 1920, when a separate mission was formed with Elder Carl E.. Petersen as the first president. In March 1956, there were 1,875 members in the Danish Mission, located in sixteen branches. Holger P. Peterson is the present president of the Danish Mission. Seventeen Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 359 members. Ora Irene H. Peterson presides over the Danish Mission Relief Society. > Note: The cover for this Magazine is a View of Ribe, Denmark, From the Domkirke. See also "Recipes From the Danish Mission," page 446. Pretty As a Pansy Frances C. Yost ANDA looked nervously at \\y the clock ticking away the minutes. "Here it is after one. If Vince doesn't come right away to eat, I'll miss Relief Society today." She gently moved the lace curtain at the window and peered down the street, hoping to see the familiar green pickup truck turn the corner. Since Vince had _ started in his own lumber business, it was hard for him to keep regular hours. Wanda didn't want to miss the meeting. She received so much joy and satisfaction and down-toearth education from Relief Society. She enjoyed working in the other organizations, too; but Relief Society was different. It was her meeting. A meeting where she could develop in a_ well-rounded way, as well as serving others. As Wanda watched at the window, the truck slowed up to the curb and Vince, almost running, came to the house. She hurried to the door to greet him. You couldn't be cross with someone who was late when he was working his heart out for you. She swung the door wide for him, and gave him her prettiest smile. "Welcome home, stranger." "Sorry I'm late, honey. Had a customer. Couldn't make it a minute sooner. But [ll eat and run so you can make it to your meeting." Vincent brushed her cheek with a swift kiss as he hurried to wash up. "That's okeh," Wanda replied. She had sort of given up the idea of getting to Relief Society, © but in no time at all Vince was Page 428 grabbing his hat, brushing her cheek with a quick goodbye kiss, and gone. Wanda glanced at the clock, a quarter to two. She almost never left the dishes in the sink, but if she did today she could still make it to Relief Society. Untying her apron, and powdering her nose, Wanda whisked on her tweed sports coat and shut the door gently, leaving it unlatched for her girls when they would come from school. As she left her home, she glanced at the home of Granny Crockett who lived next door. Usually they walked to Relief Society meeting together, but Granny Crockett had probably seen Vince's truck, and gone ahead. But we can walk home together, Wanda thought. It was the literature lesson today, given well by Sister Bates. Imagine writing nine hundred poems and fourteen novels as Thomas Hardy did, the ladies sighed! Only too soon, the meeting was over, and the sisters exchanged greetings and well wishes. Wanda Mason and Granny Crockett slowly walked the short distance to their homes together. "You can tell from his poems Thomas Hardy was a man of the soil,' Granny remarked. "Such a_ well-rounded person, Thomas Hardy was. Imagine, even as a boy, he went around to parties and weddings playing his violin," Wanda reminisced. Then she fell to thinking how Relief Society tipped the scales of PRETTY AS A PANSY values in her life, helping her to shape her outlook and define her goals. She was so engrossed in thoughts of the lesson that she did not remember the dishes in the sink, until she stepped on the porch. Marie and Connie would probably be doing up the dishes right this minute to surprise her. Wanda prepared herself to act really surprised, and lavish them with her praise. But, as she opened the door, the odor of burning meat surrounded her. The girls must be cooking hamburgers. No, it was the expensive ground round steak with which she had planned to make a special new dish. Anger made Wanda rigid at the sight of the very small amount of ground round steak which was left. ER lovely kitchen was a chaos of confusion! <A_ greasy griddle, burned almost black, was on the cupboard, and the lovely copperbottom skillet was filled with hamburgers and onions. Wanda glanced through the rooms to see the girls' school clothes draped on the beds, the living room strewn' with crumbs, while the television blasted away at high volume. 'The house Wanda had spent all morning cleaning was in utter disorder. Suddenly Wanda was scolding as rain pours down in cascades. Connie and Marie stood by with startled consternation on their faces. Wanda, realizing she had been too hasty, went to her room and shut the door quickly behind her. Shame at her outburst and discouragement seemed to engulf her. She was disappointed, too. Would the girls never learn? Would they never start to take hold, to keep the house 429 in shape, to think before using up household stores? Wanda - said nothing when the children took choice things like nuts, cherries, and olives, but now when they were using the dinner meat for afterschool snacks, that was the last straw. "All morning I've worked in the house and for what?" she asked herself aloud. "I would have been ahead if I had forgotten the house entirely and planted the pansies that are waiting." Wanda put on her gardening things, tied a scarf on her hair, and walked through the house, looking neither to the right nor to the left. On the porch she picked up the pansy plants she had purchased yesterday at the greenhouse and, with the planter fork, left the house, slamming the door almost childishly behind her. As Wanda's hands worked in the rich black soil, she thought again of the poet Thomas Hardy, and the common rural people of whom he wrote. Gradually her mind seemed to grope its way from a soundless sort of fog. RANNY Crockett, next door, sat crocheting on her warm sun porch. She had sat down to rest after the walk from Relief Society. As her hands moved, her mind dwelt on the lesson at Relief Society. She recalled a line from one of 'Thomas Hardy's poems: "This is the weather the cuckoo likes, and so do I." Suddenly from next door she heard Wanda's voice raised in scolding. "Why land sakes, pretty Wanda Mason went into that house not more than five minutes ago. Won- 430 der what mischief she found her girls into?" Granny said softly. 'Harsh words are molded on children's memories forever." Her mind went back to a day, when, as a little child, her mother in heated wrath had called her a lozy dolt. Granny's head, with its hair pinned neatly into a round flat knot at the crown of her neck, shook as if to erase the memory. It was only when she looked up from her crocheting that she noticed Wanda Mason in her garden, setting out pansy plants. Granny laid down her crochet work and, out of the corner of her eye, saw Wanda Mason wipe her eyes with the sleeve of her shirt, as she knelt in the flower bed. Suddenly Granny Crockett remembered the water cress a neighbor had brought her from his last fishing trip. Wrapping a generous portion of the cress in wax paper and going out the back door, she meandered over to where Wanda Mason was setting out her pansies. It wasn't until Granny Crockett was right to Wanda that she noticed the tears falling from her eyes, moistening the soil where she was working. Words seemed inadequate. Instead, Granny Crockett placed her hand gently on Wanda's shoulder. Wanda looked up startled, but, at sight of Granny Crockett, the flood locks broke, and a new flow of tears rushed forth. "There, there, child,' Granny Crockett comforted.