[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 414 | General Feature | Editorial— The 140th Annual General | Church Conference]
[Editorial— The 140th Annual General Church Conference]
The 140th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 4, 5, 6, 1970, was held in the great Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. Marking the 150th anniversary year of the First Vision to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the conference was significant in emphasizing the divinely directed continuity of leadership and authority and the great growth within the Church. In a Solemn Assembly on Monday, April 6th, President Joseph Fielding Smith was sustained as the tenth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and as prophet, seer, and revelator.
Each quorum of the priesthood individually, beginning with the First Presidency, and then the general assembly, gave unanimous sustaining votes. Greatly beloved for his wisdom, counsel, and sixty years of devoted and faithful leadership, President Joseph Fielding Smith, grandson of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith (brother of the Prophet Joseph), comes to his office bearing the heritage of divinely directed leadership, as well as the legacy of devotion to the gospel. President Harold B. Lee and President N. Eldon Tanner were sustained as first and second counselors, respectively, in the First Presidency. Elder Boyd K. Packer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, was sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve. Three Assistants to the Council were sustained: Elder Joseph Anderson, Elder David B. Haight, and Elder William H. Bennett. In a time of radiant spring weather, greening hills and flowering valleys, the report of growth in Church membership came to the saints as a reminder of the restoration and the labors of missionaries for one hundred and forty years. President Smith in the opening session of the conference expressed his gratitude for the restoration of the gospel: I am grateful beyond any measure of expression for the blessings the Lord has given to me, and to the faithful members of his Church in the various nations of the earth, and to all his children everywhere.