[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 462 | General Feature | Homemaking— The Mechanics of Food Storage Celestia J. Taylor Previews For 1970-1971 | ]
HOMEMAKING x x» Se x * x Development Through ¥- x Homemaking Education * * Woman's Role in * > Family Preparedness > x % * SO nail Discussion 12 The Mechanics of Food Storage "For the Earth \s Full, and There Is Enough and to Spare; Yea, I Prepared All Things, and Have Given Unto the Children of Men to Be Agents Unto Themselves." (D&C 104:17.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1970 Southern Hemisphere: February 1971 OBJECTIVE: To point out that a storage plan can be started regardless of space Or circumstances. INTRODUCTION food?" These are but two of the There are those among our many questions which arise relaLatter-day Saint membership tive to the problem of where to who, though they recognize the store our provisions. Yet there are wisdom of home storage and premany who are meeting these servation of foods, are confronted challenges and proving the truth with the problem of finding 2 of the old adage, "Where there suitable place to store these prois a will, there is a way: visions. The question is asked, Many of our homes do have "How can We, who are living in basements or utility rooms where small houses on limited budgets, foods may be stored. When obey this counsel?" or "Not havneither of these is available, howin a basement, how can we tind ever, garages and other facilities a place to store more than is may be used if precautions are needed for our weekly supply of taken to follow proper storage 462 procedures. Even for those who live under conditions where all of these facilities are lacking, there are ways to be found whereby a feasible storage plan can be worked out. HOW SHALL WE UTILIZE OUR AVAILABLE SPACE? 1. Storing Food in a Basement. A basement room that is dry all seasons of the year, free from steam, hot air and water pipes, or heat of any kind, and one which is closed off from the rest of the house is an ideal storage room. Under these conditions the average yearly temperature will be between 50 to 60 degrees F., the temperature at which most foods will retain their maximum keeping qualities. Not too many of us have such ideal conditions as these, to be sure. One family of six had as their entire storage space a basement closet and a small fruit room, and yet they succeeded in storing their one-year's supply which they kept in constant rotation. On shelves in the closet they stored dried beans, peas, rice, macaroni products, dried milk, and staples such as spices, flavorings, soaps, etc., in inexpensive tin canisters, gallon ice-cream cartons, and any cans with tight lids. On shelves in the fruit room, which they had provided with a good circulation of air by cutting a hole in the wall near the floor and covering it with an open grill to keep out bugs and mice, and a similar one near the ceiling, they kept home bottled fruits and _ vegetables, pickles, jams, and jellies. Under the shelves they stored case-lot purchases of canned meats, fish, milk, vegetables, fruit, shortening, flour, cereal, and sugar. They put slots of wood between the cement floor and the stored foods to keep any moisture away from them. Sacks of flour were alternated with sacks of sugar, Spaced so as not to touch each other to prevent infestation of weevil. In the fall they purchased three sacks of potatoes, two sacks of onions (one of small size for cooking whole, and one of large size for slicing, etc.) which they suspended in their mesh bags on a nail or stood on slats of wood on the fruit room floor. Lesson Department They stored a bushel of carrots, washed and topped, in a loosely-capped creamery can which worked as the hydrator in a refrigerator. (Parsnips and turnips in smaller quantities were stored in the same way.) Several bushels of apples were stored in their garage and insulation was provided by encasing the boxeswith crumpled newspapers and covering with old blankets to prevent freezing. The motto of this family is: "It can be done, and it's lots of fun!" 2. Storing Food in a Small Apartment. Can this be done? One young couple was able to store more than a one-year's supply by utilizing an outside wall and corners of the room, away from water or heating pipes, to stack cases of food. An attractive curtain with a drawstring hid it from view. Additional space was found on kitchen and closet shelves and even in bookcases where the food containers were camouflaged as objects of art. Impracticable? They didn't think so. One of their safeguards was continual rotation and replacement. 3. Storing Food in a Garage. When the garage or other buildings apart from the house are used for food storage, care should be taken to protect the food from extremes of weather, either hot or cold. Circulation of air should be permitted around any stored items of food to prevent sweating or moisture damage to containers or cartons. Food containers should be placed on wood slats so that they will not be in contact with cement floors or walls. Spaces near open water, water pipes, steam outlets from any mechanical equipment, or areas where there are leaking roof or walls should be avoided. The walls of storage areas, particularly in buildings apart from the house, should be as airtight as possible in order to resist weather and insects. 4. Storing Food Underground. Vegetable cellars are ideal for such foods as potatoes, apples, onions, carrots, cabbages, etc. If the temperature is cool and if they are kept off the dirt floor. Where shelving space is available, cased or canned goods may be stored if tightly sealed against moisture contact. Under such conditions vacuum-sealed metal cans, commercially packed, will give 

463 June 1970

 adequate protection to food for several years. CONCLUSION None of us should be discouraged in our efforts to work out a home storage plan to fit our own needs and conditions. As it is with anything we attain to in this life—if we really want to achieve it, we will work toward our goal and reach it. The axiom stated by Henry Ford is applicable here: can: or you can't, "Tf you think you you're right."