What a thrill it was to see the short story ''Testimony Meeting'' (January 1970) by my friend Anna Kivekas, in print! I am sure all the sisters living in the mission fields feel closer to the Church when they see that one of them from a far place has an item printed in the Magazine. I enjoy the Magazine. Margreta C. I. Spencer, Safad, Israel My mother and I do so enjoy The Relief Society Magazine and look forward to each issue, even though they arrive late and not always regularly. Diana Barry, Sanne, Switzerland The Relief Society Magazine is very popular on the Ricks College campus. I was walking down the foyer recently and noticed several young men reading the Magazine. The young women appreciate the beautiful lessons printed therein ''for their benefit and good."' Lisle L. Andrus, President, Ricks College First Stake Relief Society, Rexburg, Idaho Both my husband and I want to express our gratitude for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. Being a fairly recent convert to the Church, my association with the Magazine has been brief, but I have truly enjoyed all the issues I have read. As Peace Corps volunteers in Bahia, Brasil, we were completely isolated from the Church until we received the Magazine from my dear mother-in-law, and then you cannot imagine our joy and feeling of closeness with those at home. We simply devour the Magazine—cover to cover. We enjoy every part, from recipes, to poetry, to lessons. The boost to our spiritual and mental morale is wonderful. Thank you for making all-our days so much brighter and bringing the happiness. Of the gospel to this part of the world. Jannie N. Hall, Itajuipe, Bahia, Brasil Thank you. So much for The Relief Society Magazine. Being a new member of the Church, taking the Magazine has helped me to understand the full purpose of Relief Society. Miss C. De la Torre, Cambridge, England This terrific Magazine has been sent to my mother, Mrs. Bertha Young, by our Mormon friends Mr. And Mrs. Alex Gillespie. We are not of your religion, but if we were to make a change, we would certainly look into the Mormon faith. We read the Magazine from cover to cover, and we have learned so much. Betty Young Weese, Middletown, New York In Italy I became interested in the study of the Madonna and have observed and studied over the years the Madonna cover pictures presented in the December issues of the Magazine, and I hope that this beautiful tradition may continue. What a wonderful and blessed influence throughout the Church and the world, the Magazine continues to exert, and I am sure our dear Lord is pleased. I was pleased with Betty Madsen's ''Christmas Lullaby'' and the ''Madonna Keepsakes" article, and I loved the editorial ''We Have Seen His Star,'' by Vesta P. Crawford—the warmth and simplicity— the timeliness and inspiration are splendid. I LaVerne Stallings, Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine has been an inspiration to me, and I have learned a special appreciation for it here in Taiwan. It has helped me with our Relief Society lessons, for we are just five sisters holding meetings once each week in our homes. The Chinese sisters look in amazement at the lovely colored pictures and the handmade articles. We appreciate the messages from the General Authorities. The colored picture of the Salt Lake Temple at Christmas time (December Magazine) was beautiful. We are blessed to be members of Relief Society and to have the Magazine. Judith Hohmann, Tainan, Taiwan 402