of one born to lead, and to manage affairs;

[Column 2]
she also had the faculty to accumulate
means, or property, so to speak, and to
carry on any business a woman might un-
dertake successfully.
	She was decidedly in the best sense a
home-maker and her housewifely manage-
ment was a delight and a luxury in itself.
She was a woman to lean upon, and to re-
pose confidence in; one who would never
betray a trust, in fact would go through fire
and water rather than reveal that which had
been entrusted to her as a sacred obligation.
	Sister Hyde was not only charitable to
the needy and unfortunate, but more than
that, she was philanthropic and magnani-
mous, possessing the best requisites for fill-
ing a position, that would not only require
great wisdom, but the keenest sense of true
justice, tempered with mercy. One of her
delightful attributes was her accurate appre-
ciation of talent, and of tenderness and af-
fection in those with whom she mingled;
and her mindfulness of their efforts to do
and to promote the welfare of their fellow-
workers, and of the society in which they
were associated for the betterment of all
concerned, and the people at large.
	Her courage under difficulties and in try-
ing circumstances was something superb;
and her cheerfulness in personal affliction
was sublime in its heroic endurance.
	We often speak of women as the South-
ern type or the Northern type, the Puritan
type and so on, but although Marinda John-
son was born in Vermont, one of the New
England States, yet I could not possibly
class her as the Puritan type, she often spoke
of herself as belonging to what is termed now-
a-days “the old school,” and she really had
an old fashioned dignity, correct manners
and lady-like deportment, which belonged
to the well bred people. She was what
might be summed up in the word used so
much in modern literature a “thoroughbred.”
I might say the type of woman of the Revo-
lution, sort of military in bearing and cer-
tainly a woman of prestige.
	Her whole life from early girlhood empha-
sized her innate reverence for sacred things
and principles. She was a speaker of un-
usual power and had a far-reaching and
penetrating voice; one too who could com-
prehend others without, much explanation,
could read character and motives well, and
was in the best sense broad-minded. In
calling her attention to a new movement or
plan of work, or action, she judged accur-
ately, but never narrowed any method of de-
velopment. Her ideas were intensely prac-
tical, she was not at all visionary, but well-
balanced on all general subjects, and able
to discuss grave questions. A woman like-
ly to be chosen to settle a point at issue
among those who differed, a good arbitra-
tor, one who was a firm believer in equal
rights for man and woman on all questions;
and one who had helped to colonize in new
countries, and had experienced the disad-
vantages women with young families have
had to encounter when their husbands are
absent on long missions abroad. Sister
Hyde had traveled quite extensively herself,
and had met with eminent and distinguished
people.

[Column 3]
	Among the many great women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints whom I have known person-
ally and revered, and for whom I cherish the
most profound love and esteem, and whose
names I would wish to see engraven on a
roll of honor, and whose virtues and heroic
example are worthy to be followed by the
women of today, I count Marinda Hyde
equal in excellence to those heretofore men-
tioned.
		A noble type of good
		Heroic womanhood.
	Marinda N. Johnson Hyde, born June 28,
1815, Pomfret, Windsor County, Vermont,
died Salt Lake City, Utah, March 24, 1886.

	As representaive women of the early days
the one just mentioned, Sister Hyde and
Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball are two
unique types; unlike yet very intimately as-
sociated in the days of Kirtland and ever
afterwards. Both were women of great force
of character and possessed of endurance, able
to cope with difficulties along life’s way.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball was the true
Yankee type came of Puritan ancestors, of
the earliest period in New England history.
She was tall and strait as an arrow in figure,
of “proper manners” and deportment of the
days in which she was born and reared, and
was so thoroughly imbued with the prudish
ideas of decorum of that early Puritanical
period, that any departure from it was re-
prehensible from her point of view.
	Withal she was very progressive along all
lines of intellectual growth and educational
attainments; she had been a woman of
means and had the advantages of what is
termed good society, as a young woman and
matron; and after her marriage had a beau-
tiful home of her own and pleasant sur-
roundings; she had exquisite taste in the
cultivation of flowers and artistic skill with
the pencil and brush which she used for her
own amusement and gratification, and for the
adornment of her home successfully.
	There was a sort of simple elegance about
Mrs. Hyrum Kimball (as she was called)
that entered into all her life work, and she
had a keen appreciation of the beauties of
scenery which made her a delightful travel-
ing companion. She had a good faculty for
teaching could simplify lessons and adapt
them to the understanding of those whom she
instructed. She possessed excellent power of
concentration, something quite unusual in
women, and she was well versed in the lite-
rature of the time, and the political ques-
tions that have agitated the minds of women
much during the nineteenth century period;
she was inclined to argument on points of
law and political economy, and was quite in-
dependent and decided in her views on the
woman question could express herself partic-
ularly well, and never hestitated in giving
her opinion upon equality of the sexes. In
fact she would rank as a leader in the wo-
man’s movement, and in many respects she
resembled the illustrious so called General,
Susan B. Anthony.
	Sister Kimball had largely developed exe-
cutive ability to accumulate property and
to take care of it to the best advantage.


