[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sarah
J. Williams Watson, wife of Hugh Watson, who
departed this life on the 9th of April, 1908, after
lingering for three months after a serious opera-
tion for cancer, January 8, 1908. She bore her
sufferings with much fortitude and calmness, and
we feel that she was greatly deserving the rest,
she has obtained.
	And we, the officers and members of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, feel that in her passing away
we have lost an earnest and faithful worker in the
Relief Society cause, a firm and valued friend,
and be it
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her
family in their deep bereavement and sorrow in
the loss of a loving and devoted wife and mother,
and we earnestly pray that the sweet and consol-
ing influence of the Holy Spirit may descend upon
them, to heal up the broken hearts and help them
to realize that He who rules the destinies of all,
doeth all things well; that although they are de-
prived of her sweet and loving presence for a
short time, yet will they be united again “some
sweet day,” if they are true and faithful to her
memory.
	Resolved, That we sincerely mourn her depar-
ture from us, but appreciate her past faithful
labors, and know that she has gone to receive
the reward for labor well performed. She held
the position of teacher for a number of years in
the Sixth Ward Relief Society, which duty she
performed in an energetic and exemplary manner
and for the past two years acted as stake mission-
ary of Pioneer Stake, and won the love and re-
spect of all those whom she associated with in
that capacity.
	Resolved that we place these resolu-
tions on our records, present a copy to the fam-
ily, and also send one to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
			Ellen R. Watson, President.
			Alice Butterworth,
			Margaret Leatham, Counselors.
			Esther H. Watson, Secretary.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Eliza Bezzant, who died on the 31st, of March,
1908. Her death was calm and peaceful, falling
to sleep as a tired child.
	Sister Bezzant joined the Church in her native
country, and her kindness and devotion to the
Elders, while she remained there was never fail-
ing. Since coming here, her life has been spent
in doing good and helping to roll forth the great
work that she commenced in the old country, and
that she has been successful, all those who knew
her can amply testify.
	And we, the officers and members of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, although we shall miss her
kindly presence, do not feel to mourn for her as
those who have no hope, for we know that she

[Column 2]
has lived to a good old age, that she has been
faithful and true, and that if we also are faithful
we shall meet and associate with her again.
	Resolved that we appreciate her past labors
among us, as a teacher many years, and at the
time of her demise and for many years previous,
held the position of district teacher which posi-
tion she filled with dignity and honor; and
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends in the loss of a dear, devoted mother
and friend; and
	Resolved, That these resolutions be kept
on record, also sent to the Woman’s Exponent
for publication.
				Ellen R. Watson,
							President.
				Alice Butterworth,
				Margaret Leatham,
							Counselors.
				Esther H. Watson,
							Secretary.

	Sister Mary Ellen Smith was called from our
midst January the 10th, 1908, and was buried
January 13th. this being the 27th anniversary of
her married life. She was a faithful worker in
the Relief Society of Thatcher Idaho, being secre-
tary for many years. She also taught a class in
Sunday School for about sixteen years. She was
also president of the Primary some years, which
position she had t o resign on account of her
health failing. She was the wife of Brother Geo.
M. Smith, and daughter of Bishop Edwin D. and
Ellen W. Woolley. She was born in Salt Lake
City, Utah, December 1858, was married Janu-
ary 13th, 1881. She leaves a husband and six
children, one daughter and five sons, four of her
children preceded her to the spirit world, her
oldest son is now on a mission in the Southern
States. She was an energetic worker, and her
heart was in her work, whatever she did she ac-
complished with credit to herself and co-workers.

