[Column 1]
[Photograph with the caption “DELILA KING OLSEN.”]
IN MEMORIAM.
DELILA KING OLSEN.
	Delila King Olsen, the only daughter of Matilda
Robison and Thomas R. King was born July
tenth, eighteen hundred and forty-one at Sylvania
Lucas county, Ohio. At the time of her birth, her
parents and other near relatives were moving
from the State of New York, to Nauvoo, Illinois.
Her uncle, Joseph Robison was driving the
team. They halted, only a few hours after Deli-
la’s birth, and then continued their journey.
	They resided in Nanvoo at the time of the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his
brother Hyrum, and the persecution of the Saints
following that sad event, and went with the peo-
ple when they were driven out in the year 1846,
to Winter Quarters, living there that winter.
Then moved to the southern part of Iowa where
they remained for the succeding four years.
	In 1851 the King family crossed the plains to
Utah, moving directly to Fillmore, being among
the pioneers of that place. It was necessary for
them to build a fort to protect them from the
Indians. They lived in this fort for ten
years.
	As soon as the people began to accumulate a
little property, they felt the necessity of having
their children have a better education than could
be obtained in a small country village at that
time, so they sent Delila to Salt Lake City to
attend school, where she was a student in Profes-
sor Mouseley’s high school in the Sixteenth
Ward.
	In her fourteenth year she taught her first
school in Holden, in Millard Co.. David R. and
Edward Stevens, now prominent men of that
place, being among her pupils. She afterwards
taught school at Fillmore and Kanosh for sev-
eral years. The advancment along educational
lines, of her own family and the children in the
community in which she resided being one of her
greatest desires.
	Owing to her intelligence and attractiveness she
was always surrounded by friends and admirers.
Such was her influence among her associates that
if there was to be a party or sociable of any kind,
it must be of the best kind for Delila King was
going.
	She was an ideal daughter on whom her parents
looked with pride and admiration, and a lovable
sister.
	She was married at Fillmore, December 14.
1861, to Geo. Daniel Olson, one of the best viol-
nists of the territory at that time, also a cabinet
maker of the firm of Foster and Midgley of Salt
Lake City.
	They resided in Salt Lake City about two years
then moved to Fillmore where her husband fol-
lowed the cabinet maker’s trade. The two con-
tributed much to the social enjoyment of the com-
munity in which they lived. She had gained a
liberal education and spent a great part of her

[Column 2]
life as a teacher. Politically she was an ardent
Democrat and served two terms as Recorder of
Millard County from January 1, 1897 to January
1901.
	She was the mother of nine children, five boys
and four girls. One daughter died while quite
young, and her beautiful daughter Eva, grown to
womanhood and married to Alma Greenwood,
died at the birth of her first child. Her husband
died at Fillmore, May 8, 1893.
	With all her cares she devoted much of her
time and talents to Church work, being a charter
member of the first Relief Society organized in
Fillmore, May 7. 1868; and was chosen a teacher
at the first meeting.
	On January 25th, 1870, the ladies of Fllmore
held a mass meeting to express their indignation
in regard to the Cullom bill Delila was among
the number.
	July 26, 1870 at the organization of the Fillmore
Ward Relief Society, Caroline Collister was nomi-
nated president and Delila Olson first counselor.
While holding this position she assisted in emi-
grating the poor Saints from Europe by donating
of her means for that purpose. She advocated
assisting the children of the poor to obtain means
for an education by providing books, shoes, or
anything that it was possible for the society to do
for them. She continued in this position until the
dividing of the Fillmore Ward, October 28, 1877.
when she was chosen and set apart to be presi-
dent of the Second Ward Relief Society.
	The Relief Society of the Millard Stake of Zion
was organized January 18, 1879. Belinda M. Pratt
was chosen president and Delila Olson first coun-
selor and secretary. She was released from being
president of the Second Ward Fillmore Relief
Society on March 6th, 1879.
	As a competent president for the Stake
Primary Association was wanted at its organiza-
tion she was released from being counselor in the
Stake Relief Socfety in May, 1883, and chosen
president of the Stake Primary Association
which office she filled with credit until her re-
moval to Salt Lake City in November, 1902.
	She continued to hold the position of secretary
for the Stake Relief Society until November,
1902.
	She assisted in drafting resolutions for the first
Retrenchment Association organized in Fillmore
which was afterwards changed to “Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association and was Pres-
ident for many years. Was also president of the
Fillmore Ward Primary Association, from its or-
ganization August 10, 1880, until released with
honor October 26, 1882.—was a Sunday School
teacher all her life long.
	She was a kind and affectionate wife, a true
helpmeet, a loving and careful mother, trying at
all times to instil the principles of true man and
womanhood in the hearts of her children and
never ceasing in advocating the principles of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, both by precept and ex-
ample. A true friend, always speaking the best
of every one, and never allowing her lips to speak
evil of any one; never looking for faults, but find-
ing the true in those with whom she associated.
Her home was always open for every one to find
the welcoming hand of hospitality extended to
them. She descended from good old New Eng-
land ancestors, some of whom emigrated from
Holland, and some from England, with the object
of finding a place where they could have freedom
of conscience. They were among those who
fought for American independence. Delila was
staunch, true and patriotic, a sincere disciple
of Susan B. Anthony an ardent suffragist.
	She died January 5, 1907, and her remains were
interred in the cemetery at Fillmore by the side
of her husband, Daniel Olsen. At the funeral
services the speakers were Judge Joshua Green-
wood, Judge William A. King, a nephew of the
deceased, Elder John V. Robison, a cousin, and
President Thomas C. Callister. Resolutions of
love and esteem by the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I.
Association and the Primary Association, with all
of which she had been officially connected, were
read. The services were attended by all of her
loving children and several grandchildren.
	The remarks of the speakers were full of praise,
love and esteem for her noble character.
	Sister Olsen is survived by the following chil-
dren: Geo. D., of Fillmore; Edward T., of Chic-
ago; Frank A., merchant of Price, Utah; Cul-
bert L., a Salt Lake attorney. Emmett, a mining
engineer of Salt Lake City; Miss Ethel Olsen and
Mrs. George M. Hanson, whose husband is private
secretary to Senator George Sutherland. Also
three brothers, Culbert and Edwin King, of Cir-
cle valley, and Volney King of Cowley, Wyoming,
and hosts of other relatives and friends.
