CANNONS AS COLONIZERS.
		Ann Cannon Woodbury.

	I have been invited to say something in
regard to the record our family has made as
colonizers, but would like to refer first to
our early experience in the Gospel.
	My parents were believers in the Bible
and fairly well versed in its teachings but
not members of any sect. My father saw
the inconsistency of the various creeds he
had come in contact with, and had con-
founded many of those advocating or pro-
fessing a belief therein by comparisons and
arguments from the Bible. When Apostle
John Taylor landed in England as a mis-
sionary in the spring of 1840 he called to
see my father because he was a brother-in-
law, though they had never met. Not find-
ing my father at home, he left, promising to
call the next day. He had scarcely got
beyond hearing distance when my mother
remarked to George Q. “That is a man of
God.” She was more spiritually minded
than my father, and was thus early impres-
sed in favor of the missionary and his mes-
sage. On calling the next day Elder Taylor
explained the Gospel and found the family
interested and eager listeners. Most of us
were convinced of its truth from that day.
My father, however, put “Mormonism” to
the same test he had other creeds, with lit-
tle doubt at first that he could prove it
equally faulty. To his surprise, he soon
found that the missionary and his creed
stood the test. He spent several days read-
ing the Book of Mormon, at first with the
hope of disproving its claims, but at its con-
clusion remarked that "A bad man could
not have written it, and a good man would
not have dared to, if he had not been inspir-
ed of the Lord.”
	The family embraced the Gospel, and
soon began to feel a desire to migrate to
America. Mother was impressed from the
first that she would not live to cross the sea,
but did not waver in her determination to
go on that account. She felt that for the
children’s welfare and development they
should be with the body of the Church, and
with true martyr spirit she was willing to
sacrifice even her life to accomplish that
end. My father favored sailing to New
York, that being the shorter voyage, and for
the additional reason mother had a brother
and two sisters living there. Mother, how-
ever, opposed it, claiming that her relatives,
not believing as they did, would only be a
hindrance instead of a help to the children
when left without her to watch over them—
indeed, might prevent them from going any
farther and influence them against the Gos-
pel. So the longer voyage—to New Orleans
instead of to New York was decided upon.
	We sailed from Liverpool in September,
1842, and mother became sick the next day.
Her suffering was pathetic and her patience
and resignation remarkable. She never once
regretted having started,and though her love
for her children and anxiety for their future
led her occasionally to express the wish that
she could live to care for them, it is doubt-
ful if she ever for a moment believed that
she would. She lingered for six weeks and
was then buried in the sea. Oh the gloom
of that occasion! No words can fully de-
scribe the sorrow of the motherless children
and father! Our hopes in the Gospel alone
supported us. In time the voyage, which
in our anxiety had seemed so interminable,
came to an end. At last we halted tempo-
rarily at New Orleans. Then followed a


