			EMERY STAKE.

	The Emery Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held at Ferron, May 13, and al-
though the weather was unfavorable and the
roads very muddy, the attendance exceeded
the average of our former conferences. Espe-
cially was there a good attendance of young
people. The hall was artistically prepared
and the floral decorations were profuse.
	The Relief Society stake officers were all
present. The morning session began at 10.
o’clock. President Mary A. Sorensen gave
a welcome address and also reported the
general condition of the Relief Society of the
stake.
	Miss Gertrude King rendered a beautiful
instrumental selection.
	Other speakers were Stake Counselor Ca-
roline M. Guymon, Bishop Newel K. Beal
and Elder Seth Allen.
	Sisters Nettie Crawford and Fannie Fox
sang ‘ Lead Me, O, My Savior.”
	Sister Lottie Duncan recited “The Way
to Heaven” and Sister Cheshire sang “Nau-
voo.”
	President Myra Hansen gave a good re-
port of the Ferron Relief Society.
	After the choir sang ‘‘Redeemer of Israel”
and the benediction had been pronounced
the curtain which divides the stage from the
hall, was raised, displaying tables spread
with the bounties of life and all were invited
to remain and partake of the same. This
was a pleasant surprise which the Ferron
Relief Society sisters, under the direction of
President Myra Hansen, had prepared. The
tables were beautifully decorated and the
young ladies, who waited on tables, were
cheerful and attentive.
	After two hours spent in dining, chatting
and shaking hands the afternoon session be-
gan. The speakers were President Mary A.
Sorensen, Counselor Mary J.King and Elder
Hyrum Zwahlen.
	About twenty little kindergarten children
sweetly sang “The Child and the River.”
	Reports were given by President Mary J.
Seely, Jane R. Cox and Treena Caldwell,
and a report of the Emery Relief Society was
read.
	Sister Olive Olsen gave a recitation en-
titled, “Shall We Know Each Other There?”
and Ruth May Fox rendered an instrumental
selection.
	A sketch of President Bathsheba W.Smith,
prepared by Sister Ada Petty, was read.
	A poem entitled to “To Aunt Em” was
read by the secretary.
	Choir sang “God Be With You Till We
Meet Again.”
	Benediction by Sister Annie Swensen.
			Annie Maria Allen,
						Secretary.

[Column 3]
		UINTAH STAKE
	Minutes of 45th Relief Society Confer-
ence of Uintah Stake of Zion held at Glines,
ward, May 9, 1908, President Sarah M. Col-
ton presiding with Counselor Agnes Ben-
nion in charge. 
	After usual opening exercises First Coun-
selor Nancy A. Colton said her heart went
out toward the sisters to see so many at
meeting on such a bleak day, She, in be-
half of the Stake Board welcomed the sis-
ters to conference. She was pleased to see
so many young sisters present, spoke of the
call that had come from headquarters for
some lady to attend the nurses’ class, but
at present we had found none to go. She
reported the stake, all the branches had
been visited except one, found part of them
in good condition.
	President Hannah Oldikirk reported Ver-
nal Relief Society.
	America M. Orser reported Jensen. Lec- 
ture from Naples Relief Society given by
Harriet Goodrich, entitled “Temperance.”
Address by Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett on the
lecture which had been given under the
name “Temperance.” A song from Glines
Relief Society by Mrs. Eddis Hair assisted
by Miss Hazel Johnson.
	Bishop’s Counselor George W. Parry
spoke of the evils of intemperance, referred
in particular to the misery that was brought
into the home because of liquor. He advised
the mothers to urge their children togo to the
temple to get married for time and eternity.
	President SarahM. Colton endorsed what
had been said, she also spoke on the sub-
ject of temperance, she believes in woman
suffrage, that we women should work shoul-
der to shoulder with our husbands. She did
not feel able to speak longer,she having been
sick for some length of time. She blessed
the sisters in their efforts to do right. 
	Closed with singing, and benediction
until 1 p. m.

	Afternoon session opened with singing,
and prayer and business matters. President
Phebe Hislop reported Maeser Relief Soci-
ety; Mary J. Hardy reported Glines: Emma
Roberts reported Naples; each president re-
ported her society in good condition, al-
though a great many families had moved to
the reservation.
	Recitation from Jensen Society given by
Miss Florence Billings, “Teacher’s Diadem.” 
Lecture from Vernal Relief Society, by Mrs.
Annie Black entitled “The life of Emmeline
B. Wells.” Song from Maeser Relief Society
by Clara C. Hacking, assisted by Miss Grace
Stringham and Mrs. Nellie Colton. Program
for the year read by the secretary Mrs.
Phebe A. Merkley. Mrs. Nancy A. Colton
gave advice on the program; she spoke of a
little book entitled “Bathsheba Smith’s
Blessing.” She had been enthused by the
lecture given this morning on Temperance.
She spoke at some length on the same.
Mrs. Mary Stringham had been well pleased
to be here with the sisters, but felt like she
had been out of school for some time for she
had not had the privilege of visiting the sis-
ters much since she left here, spoke of moth-
ers never to get so busy that they could not
have time to teach their children the Gospel.
	Mrs. Mary O'Neil bore her testimony and
spoke of the lessons we had had this day,
also spoke of the lessons given in Sabbath
School, Mrs. Agnes Bennion made a few
closing remarks and thanked all for their
presence. Conference adjourned for three
months with singing and benediction.
			Phebe A. Merkley, Sec.


