RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ENGLAND.
	A Relief Society conference was held in
Westgate Hall, Bradford, May 16th, 1908.
The meeting commenced at 3:30 p. m. Sis-
ter Romania B. Penrose was in attendance.
	After the opening exercises, President Mary
Hollings gave a brief account of the work
done in Bradford.
	Second Counselor, Sister Walker, reported
the progress that is being made in Halifax.
	President Maria Wood spoke encouraging-
ly of the work in Clayton.
	The president of the Society in Keighley
also gave a good report.
	Sister Mary A. Knight expressed pleasure
in attending to her duties as a teacher.
	A recitation was given by Miss Florrie
Benn, entitled, “Alone in Heaven.”
	Sister Mary E. Sanders spoke of the bene-
fit derived from attending Relief Society
meetings.
	First Councelor Mary Higgins told what
satisfaction the Gospel gave her and expres-
sed a desire to keep the commandments of
the Lord.
	Sister Lilian Jeffries sang, “Love at
Home.”
	Second Counselor Nancy Thorpe bore tes-
timony to the divinity of “Mormonism.”
	Several of the sisters bore testimony to
the good work done by the Society.
	Sister Edith Crampton, who is emigrating
to Zion, testified of good received through
attending to her duties.
	Sister Romania B. Penrose gave a very
instructive and helpful address on the great
obligations we owe to our Father in heaven.
Urged the sisters to purify themselves and
not grieve the Spirit of the Lord. She also
pointed out that the Relief Society is to
educate the sisters intellectually, spiritually
and morally. Impressed upon all the ne-
cessity of working unitedly and of respecting
authority. Spoke of eternal associations
and man’s free agency, and made plain the
fact that our destinies lie largely in our own
hands. Gave valuable suggestions regarding
Relief Society work and the training of chil-
dren. Urged mothers to instil into their
daughters right principles in early years and
so fit them for the duties of life as wives
and mothers. If these teachings are put into
practice great benefit will be derived by each
Society represented. The work in the con-
ference is growing, and we are expecting to
hear of greater advances in the future.
				MARY E. SANDERS,
Millennial Star.				Secretary.


