[Column 1]
UNIQUE GATHERING.
	At the Forestdale Amusement Hall, just
south of this city, on Tuesday afternoon,
July 9, 1908, there were assembled between
two and three hundred of the Free family to
celebrate the 79th birthday of Sister Hannah
C. Free Wells, (wife of President Daniel H.
Wells) and daughter of the late Absalom P.
Free, a veteran in the Church from the early
days, and a man well known in Utah, whose
descendants have now become very numer-
ous, the gathering was to perpetuate his
memory among his posterity.
	The reception began at 2 p. m. and the
banquet was scheduled at 4 p. m. The
large and commodious banqueting hall was
beautifully decorated, and there were roses
and other fragrant flowers in all available
places, and upon the tables, that were liter-
ally loaded with appetizing viands in great
variety. The hospitality of the Free family
has always been proverbial from the early
days in the valley, and is doubtless a part
of the Southern life and inheritance. Sister
Betsy Strait Free, wife of Absalom Free, was
a most hospitable Southern woman, born in
Kentucky.
	There were five tables filled with the de-
scendants of the Free families, and it was a
wonderful sight to behold, the scene was
quite a remarkable one to look upon. There
were white haired men and women, and
younger married people with families, and
fine young men and fair maidens and chil-
dren of all ages and sizes down to tiny
babies.
	Free's, Young's, Wells's, Smith's and
other names of married children and grand-
children too numerous to mention. Among
them are many sweet singers and talented
musicians, and also dramatic ability, so
that the program of exercises needed no out-
side help. There was dancing late in the
evening, and altogether the party was a com-
plete success all around.
	The real guest of honor was Sister Hannah
C. Wells, whose birthday occurred on that
day, which had been chosen for the gather-
ing of the "Free clan." She was the recipi-
ent of several beautif[-]l gifts and of many
hearty congratulations and good wishes,
among the gifts was a very large birthday
cake handsomely decorated and her name
and age upon it, made and presented by her

[Column 2]
niece, Talitha Henry. There were seeming-
ly no regrets except the absence of Junius F.
Wells, or anything else to mar the delightful
feeling and unity, that was very apparent to
all present.
	The Free family history is very interest-
ing, although it does not date back very far.
The first known being Grandfather Andrew
Free, an only child born in North Carolina
about the year 1775, he married Mary Pen-
nington, and they were the parents of Absa-
lom Pennington Free who was born in North
Carolina on the eastern slope of the Cum-
berland Mountains. The family, consisting
of eleven children, emigrated to the
wilderness of the far west, the prairies of
Illinois, about the year 1814, and they trav-
eled through a land of hostile Indians, real
pioneers, and were among the first to get
farms in the fertile valley of the Mississippi,
in St. Clair County where they located and
obtained [-]ine farms along the Kaw river;
they became well-to-do farmers.
	The father, Andrew Free, heard the Gos-
pel and was baptized by Simeon Carter, also
his wife and nearly all his family. He af-
terwards moved to Missouri and located at
Far West, in Caldwell County, in 1836.
	While living there Andrew Free met
Joseph Smith the Prophet whom he had not
seen before, and the Prophet came up to
him, shook hands with him, looked him in
the face and said, "Brother Free, you are a
real "Ephramite," and one can believe it
by his numerous posterity.
	The family remained in Missouri until the
expulsion from that state in 1838, and then
returned to Illinois, remaining there until
1845, when they went to Nauvoo, leaving in
the exodus with the body of the Church.
"The Frees" are a very affectionate family
and loyal to each other, and to the Church
of which they are members.
	The reunion was a perfect success and
will promote love and harmony among the
younger generations, as well as a knowledge
of their progenitors, and be helpful in the
work for the dead; which Patriarch Absalom
P. Free greatly desired.


