IN MEMORIAM.
		EMILY WELLS GRANT.
“Death is the crown of life!”
	The Latter-day Saints believe death opens
the portal to eternal life, and yet we mourn
for those who go out into the unknown,
while we believe they are welcomed on the
other side, as we welcome and rejoice when
an immortal soul is born into this world,
where we know there is trial and sorrow,
awaiting all who come.
	It is in our nature to mourn for our loved
ones when the parting comes, yet we do and
must acknowledge the hand of the Lord,
even when the nearest and dearest are taken.
	“What shall we add now? She is dead”
Death seems to close our lips at first, and
we can only exclaim, all is over she is gone;
it is useless our doing, our grief, our tears,
they avail naught, yet we weep, we sigh, we
mourn, it seems to give relief to our agon-
zed hearts, although we realize our weeping
is in vain. We cannot bring them back, we
would not, if we could.
	Our beloved Emily has gone where there
is—
	No more weeping, no more sighing,
		No more agonizing fears
	And no requiem for the dying
		Chanted ’mid-the falling tears.

	Angel escorts bearing banners
		Every entrance watch to see
	One who cometh with hosannas
		Marching on to victory!
	If we could look within the pearly gates,
that open to the heavenly mansions, we
would be humiliated with our own weak-
ness, but we are so intensely human, and
those are taken whom we fain would keep,
and we cannot help exclaiming,what avails,
now she is dead:
	Sweet Emily, how brave she was during
her long and tedious illness, patient and
tender always, trying to bear her affliction
with the fortitude of a saint of God. How
fondly her relatives and friends sought to
exercise faith for her recovery, hoping against
hope for weeks and months, praying earnest-
ly to the Lord to spare her for the dear chil-
drens’ sake.
	Sister Grant had every thing to live for, a
noble and kind husband who seemed to
anticipate her every wish, beautiful daught-
ers, brothers and sisters who almost idolized
her, and hosts of friends, who were devotedly
attached to her, for she had such charming,
attractive qualities, and withal a fine sense
of humor, and could use it tactfully to the
admiration of those whom she cared to please;
she was a great favorite in her girlhood among
the crowd of young people, school-fellows and
campanions; she never lacked for attention
here or there, wherever she went, winning in
her manner and a graceful dancer; she had
many accomplishments as well as home
adornments.
	The few years she passed abroad where
her husband, Apostle Heber J. Grant, pre-
sided over the European mission, gave her
the opportunity to see the world and to be-
come acquainted with many Latter-day
Saints, at the headquarters in Liverpool,
and those going upon missions and return-
ing; and she had the faculty of endearing
herself to them all, and invariably they
spoke of Sister Grant with sincere affection
and high regard. Those few years brighten-
ed her life greatly, and when after returning
to this city and meeting again her blessed
mother, and the dear ones here, she became


