[Column 1]
settled in her hew home, which she had plan-
ned to suit herself and among her dearest
friends, it seemed as if her life might flow on
like a happy dream.
	But alas for human expectations, she was
not permitted long to enjoy the rich bles-
sings of home and mother, husband and
children. Everything that could be done
for her ease and gratification was thought of
and no expense was spared, loving hands
ministered to her, and those about her were
thoughtful of every act and attention. And
yet she could not stay with those who held
her in the strongest bonds of affection.
Therefore we must say “He doeth all things
well,” knowing it was the Father’s will.
The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
Because we miss them from our onward way,
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all and loving them the most
Straightway relieved them from life’s weary load.
They are not lost, they are within the door
That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore
And God Himself their Lord, and Judge, and King.
	Sad was the parting here, yet Sister Grant
has many dear ones there, and the welcome
will be beyond what words can express; her
only boy Daniel, her beautiful Sister Dessie,
her mother, father, and others loved and
cherished, relatives and friends, and an in-
numerable company of saints and angels
welcomed her to “the golden shore.”
	Emily Wells Grant was the daughter of
President Daniel H. Wells and his wife
Martha G. Wells (recently deceased) and
was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 22,
1857: she grew to womanhood in an environ-
ment of love and happiness, she had the
very best educational advantages, the Utah
schools and University afforded. She was
married to Elder Heber J. Grant in 1884—
and was the mother of five children Dessie,
and Grace, both now in early womanhood,
and Daniel (deceased) Emily and Frances still
young in years. Sister Grant was a loving
and tender mother and a charming woman
in all the delicate relations of domestic life.
	Sister Grant passed peacefully away after
a painfully tedious illness under which she
bore up heroically on Monday, May 25, at
3:15 p.m. surrounded by her immediate fam-
ily, her mother’s sister Emily Bullock was
also present, and must have been a great
stay and comfort to the family, who had so
recently parted with the mother, Sister Mar-
tha Wells only a few days previous.
	The funeral was held at the home on
Wednesday May 27, at 2 p. m. Bishop T.
A. Clawson presiding at the services. The
opening prayer was offered by President
Anthon H. Lund, and was eloquent with
feeling and consolation to the bereaved.
Elder O. F. Whitney, a life-long friend paid
a glowing tribute to her life and memory.
Elder Rudger Clawson followed him allud-
ing to their long acquaintance and pleasant
association, her praiseworthy life and the
faithful record she had made. The music
was furnished by the Pyper, Whitney, Spen-
cer and Ensign quartet accompanied by
Prof. Arthur Shepherd and was sweet and
soothing, the first hymn was “Thou dost not
weep to weep alone.” then “O my Father”
rendered by Horace Ensign, Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee’s hymn “Resting now from
care and sorrow” sung as a solo by Elder
George D. Pyper and the anthem “Not Dead
But Sleepeth,” closed: the closing prayer
was offered by Elder Richard W. Young.

[Column 2]
	Sister Grant was literally buried in flowers
of the most delicate fragrance, in fact the
casket was covered and the room filled in
every nook and corner, the sweetest perfume
of flowers everywhere, the gifts of her many
dear friends, and what can be more emble-
matic of purity and loveliness.
	“Flowers preach to us if we will hear.”
	The pall bearers were six of her brothers:
Rulon S. Wells, Louis R. Wells, Gershom
B. Wells, Melvin D. Wells, Charles H. Wells
and Victor P. Wells.
	The grave was dedicated by Elder Joseph
Hyrum Grant and the beautiful hymn “Rest
on the hillside, rest” was softly and sweetly
sung by the quartet, the casket was lowered
into the grave lined with the sweetest flowers
of May.
	Farewell a word so tender, so sad, for
those who stay but
		“They who go
	Feel not the pain of parting; it is they
	Who stay behind that suffer.”
		“Fare thee well;
	The elements be kind to thee and make
	Thy spirits all of comfort.”


