[Column 1]
A WORD TO THE RELIEF SOCIETR.
	In the month of Jnne, 1872, this little
paper first made its appearance, and Presi-
dent Brigham Young anticipated the sisters
subscribing liberally and making it a great
enterprise in the interests of the women of
Zion not only in Utah, but wherever the
Saints were located. He wished the sisters
to have a knowledge of affairs in general at
home and elsewhere, to know, too, what
other women were doing in the way of high-
er education and advancement and to keep
abreast of the times.
	The sisters were urged through the meet-
ings held at that period of time, to

[Column 2]
write for the paper and to improve them-
selves in composition and literary merit, and
make genuine history that would be a record
of woman’s work.
	President Young at one time in conversa-
tion with the editor suggested that the lives
of prominent women in the Church, those
who had associated in the early days in
active measures for the benefit and es-
tablishment of Mormonism, or actual labor
in colonizing, or in a religious or moral
sense, to promote the interests of the build-
ing up of Zion, should be written up that a
history or true record might be made of value
to posterity.
	Considerable of this biographical work
has been done, but in many instances, our
young people who have so much and read so
much, fancy lighter reading than histories of
women’s lives with whose names they are
more or less familiar. Therefore, more
recently the editor has undertaken to write
in a dignified manner, so to speak, her own
impressions of such women, who helped to
lay the foundation of this work in connec-
tion with the great leaders among distin-
guished men of their own time.
	Women who have opened the way in
many lines for the younger generation of
the present period. They really do not
know what they owe to those women whose
names are household words in Zion.
	It is earnestly desired that the sisters in
all the wards should take a more active in-
terest in getting subscriptions for the
Woman’s Exponent, and sustaining it as a
means of spreading knowledge, not only of
the work of the Relief Society itself which is
the greatest organization of women in the
Church, (and we think even in the world)
but because this society carries the light of
the Gospel along with its teaching into every
home of its members.
	It was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith before any of the women’s societies
or associations in the outside world, and can
any Latter-day Saint doubt its being through
revelation? Such a great society must have
an organ to keep up with its development,
and it should be sustained by its members,
so that there need be no delays in its regu-
lar publication. Printing is not done with-
out money, although writers, poets, etc.,
may go hungry, machinery does not run
itself.
	The sisters in all parts of the world are
benefitted by the Woman’s Exponent; it is
the actual agent of the society, keeping be-
fore the society the importance of the or-
ganization and its methods of work, and the
success attending the efforts made in all the
various localities. It may be prosy, but so
is all useful work, but the results are what
is looked for. There might be books upon
books issued, but they would not keep pace
with the growth of a society as a journal
does. It is not for the sake of stories or
poems though they embellish and help over
dry reading, it is for the actual progress
being made that a paper is most needed. In
view of these facts and many more that
might be stated, the Exponent asks for a
more liberal patronage, and a larger circula-
tion in the Relief Society which it repre-
sents.


Mrs. Taft devotes part of every day to the
study of languages. Spanish and French
are her favorites. Few mistresses of the
White House have been familiar with the
continental tongues, and still fewer with
Spanish, the language of South America.


