[Column 1]
	She was a very good public speaker con-
cise in language and expression, used as few
words as possible to convey her meaning
and invariably handled her subjects well.
Her voice was rather incisive but she could
be heard well and understood where a more
fluent speaker might be misunderstood.
	Sister Kimball was original and indepen-
dent in her ideas; and in public measures
her plans were well-matured before she pre-
sented them, and therefore the more convinc-
ing; and she had a decidedly positive man-
ner that some might construe as aggresive.
	However Sister Kimball was a woman of
high ideals about spiritual matters and was
a deep religious thinker, and reasoner, and
a student of the Bible, Book of Mormon and
other Latter-day Saint books of a similar
kind; and the writings of Orson and Parley
P. Pratt and their Sermons she was particu-
larly fond of reading.
	Sister Kimball was methodical and prac
tical generally, but some of her writings on
philosophical and spiritual subjects were
rather extraordinary and although in speak-
ing she was clear and comprehensive, yet in
her writings she was abstruse and inclined
to be mystical, and yet she was so strong-
minded, and well-balanced that she would
never be the least likely to go beyond her
depth. She was really an advanced thinker
and fond of diving into the unknown, or
soaring upward to sublime heights. The
writer recalls one or two of her articles that
made quite a sensation at the time; upon
subjects with which women are now quite
conversant.
	Sister Kimball had the attributes of a re-
former along many lines, was at one time
quite an advocate of dress reform, something
very much needed in the present day.
	She was a woman one liked to talk with
even if one could not always coincide with
her views, and one was pretty sure to learn
something by conversation with her, even if
one was worsted in an argument, she was
certainly well worth listening to, and excel-
lent in debate.
	There was nothing common place about
Sister Kimball: like others of the sisters who
belonged to that period of the Church, she
had held converse wtth the greatest minds
of this dispensation, men who had been
favored of the Lord and taught of Him by
revelation and she had sat under their teach-
ing, and listened to their wise sayings, and
profited by their instruction; of these woman
who were familiar with the great Latter-day
Prophet, but few now remain only one or
two yet living, scarcely any in fact; they be-
longed to a period in the history of the
Church with which those women who are
foremost in our Church work today know
but very little.
	Sarah Kimball was exceptional in that
she had some traits of character unlike any
other woman of whom I have written, most-
ly undeveloped however; she was something
of a phrenologist, and a pretty good reader
of character, delicate in her nature, a little
cold in her manner, one does not care to
make comparisons, “they are said to be
odious” but there were some points of re-
semblance between Sister Eliza R. Snow and
Sarah M. Kimball.
	Sarah Melissa Granger married name
Kimball was born in Phelps, Ontario County,
New York, December 29, 1818, died in Salt
Lake City, Utah, December 1, 1898.

	In close fellowship with Marinda Hyde
and Sarah M. Kimball was another loyal
and devoted woman whose life-work for

[Column 2]
years was closely interwoven with the two
women whose names are mentioned here.
Sister Sarepta M. Blodgett Heywood, a
charming and brilliant women, lovable and
loyal, in all places and at all times, mother-
ly in the sweetest and dearest ways, she al-
ways had a smile for her friends, no matter
how her own heart might ache. She was
tender to the very fibres of her being. She
loved all living creatures, and was especially
kind and deferential to the aged, the help-
less and unfortunate. Her unbounded sym-
pathy for all sorrows whether through mis-
fortune or weakness or from whatever cause,
was something sublime in its expression and
effect. None appealed to her in vain; none
were ever turned away without some allevi-
ation.
	Her home was a delightful place of re-
pose and restfulness; she knew just what to
do for the comfort and entertainment of
guests whether her friends came singly or
in crowds, there was always the cordial wel-
come. Hospitality was one of her chief at-
tractions in the days when there were not
many bounties to dispense, and the Saints
were in need of substantial support to tide
over the time of scarcity. Sister Heywood
will always be remembered as one of those
who would divide the last morsel with a
friend, or any one in need, if to feed the
hungry and clothe the destitute is the sub-
limest charity, then she stands pre-eminent
in this regard. Her good deeds, her acts of
kindness and benevolence can never be
forgotten. Many will rise up and call her
blessed at the last day for the help extended
in the hour of great privation.
	Sister Heywood had received a liberal edu-
cation, graduating at last from a celebrated
institution of learning in Buffalo, New
York, and had been a great reader of good
books, and was a woman who always
dressed becomingly and in excellent taste;
she was graceful and attractive in manner
and possessed a fund of humor that seemed
always to bubble up at the right moment to
give zest and tone to common place conver-
sation or dulness that needed enlivening, she
was a woman of tact, which is said to be
better than talent.
	Sister Heywood was a most pleasing pub-
lic speaker, she had a sweet voice and her
intonation was perfect, she was gifted in
prayer, was of a religious and devotional na-
ture and one particularly well-adapted to the
dispensing wisely of means given for chari-
table purposes.
	In her own neighborhood and the local
Relief Society, where she was counselor to
Sister Marinda Hyde, the president from its
first organization (her husband was bishop
there) she was a prime favorite.
	One cannot recall her without thinking of
her beautiful eyes, that seemed to speak with-
out words, so full were they of soulfulness.
	Unlike most of the Latter-day Saints who
had been persecuted and driven from place
to place, the Heywood’s were people of
means and resources; this may have come
about because of Sister Heywood’s excellent
management of household affairs.
	Sarepta M. Blodgett, married name
Haywood, was born in Monroe, Ashtabula
Co., Ohio, November 22, 1822. Died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, November 23, 1886,


