[Column 1]
SUFFRAGE REUNION AT SENECA FALLS.
	Standing out bold and clear among the
many great events that marked the phenom-
enal progress of humanity the world over
during the nineteenth century is one, the
60th anniversary of which was celebrated in
Seneca Falls, New York, May 26th, 27th,
and 28th of this year. In that city in July
1848, was held the first organized meeting
ever held by women in the world’s history,
to demand equal participation in the fram-
ing of laws and all other matters concern-
ing the welfare of the people. The meeting
was called by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and
Lucretia Mott, and was attended by many
prominent men and women from different
parts of the country, among them the great
orator and statesman, Frederick Douglas.
	The resolution passed at that meeting was
the clarion cry that, before the century had
closed, was to ring in every civilized coun-
try in the world, rousing women from their
lethargy of the ages; awakening to the gross
injustice of their position in the world; of
the extreme cruelty of many of the laws
enacted concerning them, particularly those
which related to property and other rights.
	That the women of the world are aroused
to the importance of securing their just
rights is evidenced by the battle they are so
strenuously waging in the United States,
England, conservative Germany, France and
the Latin nations. Even in Turkey, India,
China and Japan they have taken up the
agitation. In Finland, New Zealand, Aus-
tralia, and in several of our own states they
have already secured full rights to the elect-
ive franchise.
	The exercises at Seneca Falls was attend-
ed by thousands of men and women coming
from different parts of the country; and a
number from Europe. The principal event

[Column 2]
of the exercises was the unveiling on Wed-
nesday afternoon of a large Bronze Tablet,
commemorating the first meeting. The tab-
let was placed on the outer wall of the
church building that now occupies the
ground where stood the old Wesleyan Chap-
el where the meeting was held in 1848.
	On one side of the tablet, modeled in ex-
quisite relief, stands a graceful, earnest and
intelligent looking woman, dressed in the
fashion in vogue at that period. Her right
arm hangs restfully at the side, the hand
holding the paper on which was written the
call for the meeting. The left arm is ex-
tended and the hand holds a wreath over a
smaller tablet on which is inscribed the fol-
lowing:
	“On this spot stood Wesleyan Chapel,
where the first Woman’s Rights Convention
in the world’s history was held, July 19th
and 20th, 1848. At that meeting Elizabeth
Cady Stanton moved the following resolu-
tion, which was seconded by Frederick
Douglas; “Resolved, that it is the duty of
the women of this country to secure to
themselves the sacred right to the elective
franchise.”
	The tablet is considered by many critics
to be the finest that has been made in this
country in a long time, resembling in many
ways the work of the late gifted Saint Gaud-
ens. It was modeled by Elizabeth St. John
Matthews, the sculptor, of New York City.
	Mrs. Matthews was the woman member
of the International Jury of Awards on
Sculpture at the St. Louis Exposition,and is
the first and only woman to be given this
honor in any country. She has done many
notable works of art, some of which have
given her an international reputation. Her
busts of Presidents Lincoln, McKinley and
Roosevelt, Chaplain McCabe, and Cardinal
Gibbons and the bas-reliefs of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and Lucretia Mott, Francis
Willard, Susan B, Anthony (the latter taken
from sittings given by Miss Anthony) and
Mrs. Croly, (Jennie June) the founder of
women’s clubs, have received high praise.
								Ex.


Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of Brigham City, Utah,
was the only woman delegate in the National
Republican Convention. She was first elect-
ed as an alternate, but one of the delegates
was not able to go to Chicago, and the Utah
delegation chose her to fill his place. She
now wears the gold badge of a regular dele-
gate. Mrs. Clark is the daughter of one of
the pioneer settlers. She was born in Far-
mington, Utah, in 1850. While still a young
woman she began to take part in public af-
fairs. For a long time she has been active
in politics, and she was at one time vice-
president of the State Equal Suffrage Asso-
ciation. She ran for the State Senate in
1896, but was beaten by a Democratic land-
slide. Mrs. Clark says Roosevelt is her first
choice for the next president, Taft her se-
cond. She believes in equal suffrage, and
says it works well. She is the mother of
eleven children, and brought the photographs
of eight of them to the convention. Being
asked her profession (she is now a gray-
haired woman), she anwered, “I have been
a mother.”
Woman’s Journal.
	June 20, 1908.
	Lady Henry Somerset calls attention to
the fact that 2,584 different petitions for
woman suffrage have been sent to the British
Parliament.


