IN MEMORIAM.
	It is with feelings of profound sorrow and
grief that we, the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, express our heartfelt sympathy and
extend words of condolence to those whom
we love, honor and revere; those who, in the
decree of an all-wise Father, have been cal-
led upon to part, for a brief season with one
most truly beloved.
	Sister Louie Shurtliff Smith was one in
whom shone all the virtues known to hum-
anity. Queen-like, regal in her mien, yet
withal so gentle, just and kind; her innate
beauty showed the exquisite touches of the
Master’s hand. She was as the sunbeam
breaking through the clouds. Her pure,
chaste life was ever an inspiration.
	As a daughter she was all that the name
implies, all that a daughter could be. As a
sister, loving, beloved and revered. A wife,
the helpmeet, companion and counselor of
her husband. A mother, tender, true, wise,
ideal.
	To parents, brothers, husband and little
ones we feel to say: Whereas our Father, in
His wisdom and love, has called her noble
spirit home to labor in a more exalted
sphere, may you be able to bow in humble
submission to His divine will. And we
earnestly pray that on each aching heart
may be poured a healing balm, even the
comforting influence of the Holy Spirit, that
you may even now see the silver lining to
the cloud which overshadows you and be
able to say “The Lord gave and the Lord
hath taken away; blessed be the name of the
Lord.”
O loved ones, with thy bruised and bleeding
	hearts,
Could’st thou have seen the messenger, who came
In shining robes, direct from Father’s throne,
Had’st heard the thrilling voice call Louie’s
	name,
Thou wouldst have said, if thou hadst under-
	stood,
“It is the Lord, do Thou as seemeth good.”
But veiled by dense mortality, thine eyes
Beheld not, through the bitter, blinding tears;
The same dense clay permitted not the sound
Of angel voice to penetrate thine ears;
Not tear nor sob prevented: laws abound
That man must walk by faith, not sight nor
	sound.
And so the angel came unseen, unheard
By all save thy dear one, whom he didst guide
Across the shadowy river, to the throne
Where harp and crown await on yonder side;
She saw, heard and recalled her former home
And smiling, vhispered faintly “Lord I come.”
We mourn, we weep with thee in thy deep loss;
We know the grieving heart yearns for its own;
Know that the aching void can ne’er be filled,
Save by our Heavenly Father, He alone
Can soothe thy grief, speak peace unto thy soul,
Can heal thy wounds and make thee truly whole.
And so we pray that strength be given thee,
That heavenly dews may on thy souls descend,
That through the cloud, blue sky may yet be
	seen,
Instead of song, may psalm thy lips attend;
When rightly tempered, both by heat and wave.
Thou’lt meet again thine own beyond the grave.
						NELLIE BECROFT.
	In behalf of the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion.


Dr. Romania B. Penrose Delegate from
Utah appointed by the Governor delivered
an address at the International Woman’s
Suffrage Alliance Congress held in Amster-
dam, Holland, June 16, 1908. The address
will be published in full in our next number.


