Careers (A One-Act Comedy-Drama of Life and Love) By Linda S. Fletcher Suitable for Annual Day Programs Cast of Characters Katherine Leighton Cornelia Leighton................ Dawn Joy Mary Hilton Rose Ramsay Joyce, age 8, and Betty Ellen, age 10............... Jimmie Halstead..............06. Ward Leighton Jesse Georges Douglas Lincoln Scene: Living room in the Leighton homestead with davenport and _ table, right center, several big, easy chairs, desk, upper left, blackboard, with colored drawing, left; flowers, a profusion of magazines and books, lamps etc., arranged artistically lend an atmosphere of charm. Doors, back center, left, and right. At rise of curtain, Katherine, wearing a summery frock and dainty apron, is arranging flowers at the davenport table, right center. Cornelia, upper left, is just closing the desk. She has a sweet, serene face, dark hair, slightly gray at the temples. She wears a becoming dress of blue linen. Katherine 魹ｽ Run along, now, mother, and enjoy yourself. Ill finish the house-work and answer the door-bell. I can hardly wait for our eminent visitors to arrive. Cornelia (smiling )魹ｽYou always did adore famous people, didn't you, Kathie? Katherine魹ｽYes; and Tm quite overwhelmed by our present good fortune in having three celebrities under our roof and two more coming. Are you disappointed that there is so little likelihood of your winning the prize, mother? Cornelia魹ｽOf course not, dear. I CY aa ee. A Modern Maiden eeHer Mother ¥., eeA Motion Picture Star AW... 魹ｽcp,. dee.... An Author ro errA Singer ae. Oe. The Leighton Children A, Katherine's Suitor ae...... Her Father aay, A Motion Picture Producer GP. A..... A Portrait Painter should rather have it go to one of the others魹ｽor all, if possible. (Goes left) Call me when they arrive. (Exits left) (Door-bell rings; Katherine greets Jimmie Halstead.) Katherine (Surprised, as she puts his things on table, r.) Why, Jimmie! Whoever would have expected to see you in Morton! Jimmie (taking her hand)魹ｽIt's like this, Kathie. When you told me goodbye after the "U" dance the other evening, I did so much want to ask you something魹ｽbut just couldn't get nerve enough. After you left, however, I found it just had to be said, if I were to enjoy any peace of mind, so I followed you here. Katherine魹ｽAnd this mysterious something魹ｽJimmi? Jimmie (hesitatingly) 魹ｽ You know how I have shadowed you the past year. Always in your way, wasn't I?. Katherine魹ｽNever in the way! It was thrilling to a Junior to have a "grave and reverend" Senior notice her, J assure you, especially when CAREERS 81 he was "honor man" and its president, too. Jimmie魹ｽNo more than thrilling? Katherine魹ｽWell魹ｽrather nice! Jimmie (earnestly )魹ｽWas it nice enough, Katherine, that you'd be willing to have me魹ｽwell魹ｽrather near, the rest of your life? Katherine魹ｽIs 魹ｽis this a proposal? Jimmie魹ｽWell, I'm not carrying it off in Romeo or Barrymore fashion (ruefully) I know, but I do love you, Kathie. Do you think you could ever care for me? Katherine (responding sweetly to his seriousness)魹ｽIt's nice of you Jimmie, to like me. I'm fond of you, too. But, Jimmie, I just don't want to get married. I don't want to be tied to dust-cloths and mop-pails! I want a career! Jimmue魹ｽBut isn't marriage a career? Surely a woman can have no greater career than that assigned her by God. Katherine (slightly sarcastic) 魹ｽ Spoken like a "man"! Are you sure it was not mere man, rather, who assigned this career of which you speak, to woman! Of course, wifehood is best for the untalented woman, but I think the Maker intended that those especially gifted should use their abilities for the betterment of humanity and should devote their lives to the world as a whole instead of limiting them to one fire-side! Jimmuie魹ｽI can think of no way in which a woman of the highest talents could more greatly benefit the race than by becoming the mother of some of its children. There is a career that calls for the development of every talent, demands unselfishness, it is true, and yet rewards with the most poignant happiness this world can bestow! Katherine魹ｽOh, but you're wrong, Jimmie. Look at my mother, she of his class, seems to be happy enough, and I'm sure she's unselfish, but as for developing her talents魹ｽwhy, she hasn't time to do a thing but work for us. To see her, now, you would never believe that, at the time of her marriage, the world seemed to be hers for the taking. She could just do anything, they say. She had three especially intimate girl friends: Rose Ramsay, who had a very good voice, but not so lovely as mother's contralto; Mary Hilton, who could write very well, but not nearly as effectively as mother, who, before she was twenty had had several poems and a short story accepted for publication by local magazines; and Frances McConnell, who was pretty and could act, but "who never won the leading parts in the school plays when mother was competing. Sit down, Jimmie, and I'll tell you about the pact these girls made while going to school together. (They sit on davenport) They agreed that twenty years later they would meet and decide whose life had been most successful, judged by the happiness of each and her contribution to humanity, as evidenced by the real beauty of her countenance. Well, Jimmie, the twenty years are up today and these three friends of mother's are here; they are women who have had wonderful careers. Jimmie魹ｽAnd you see in their success the kind you desire for yourself? You are wonderfully gifted, Kathie, of course, or you wouldn't have had the lead in both the school plays and operas every year you've been at the U, and I desire your happiness more than my own. If there were only some way, though, that we could be sure that a public career will indeed bring you true happiness. Tell me, how are these women going to decide who has won the novel competition? 82 Katherine魹ｽThat's the most thrilling part. Douglas Lincoln 魹ｽ you know, the famous portrait painter魹ｽ is to see the four of them for the first time today. He is to decide by choosing the one he would prefer to paint, and the portrait he does is to be the prize. You see, each year, each of the competitors has contributed one-twenty-fifth of her total earnings to a common fund, and they have quite a staggering amount on hand to pay for the painting, although the amount mother has paid each year hasn't been very large compared to that contributed by the others. Father says half he receives as salary is really mother's, so she has based her payments on that. Father doesn't earn so much as a high school teacher. When they were married he was as poor as魹ｽ Jimmy (dryly)魹ｽAs Jimmie Halstead now is; and from what you tell me he must have had the same colossal nerve when he asked your mother to do the very thing that I am asking you to do. But who are these others and what have they done to win so much lucre? Katherine魹ｽI'm sure you won't blame me for being dazzled, when I tell you about them. First, there is Rose Ramsay, the opera singer. Perhaps you haven't heard of her because, while she has good parts, she has never yet become a prima donna. She has made a lot of records, however, and also does a great deal of singing at private musicales. She came on here from Hollywood where she has been having her voice tested for the movies. If her tests are a success, she will make a great deal of money at voice doubling. They couln't let her know before she came on here, because Mr. Georges, the producer, was in New York, and he had to pass on the tests. He is coming here to see Miss Joy about her new contract, and Miss Ramsay expects him to have a very good contract for her also. And, O Jimmie! What if he shouid notice me! Maybe this is going tc be my big chance. See, I have my best photo on exhibition. (Points to a large photo of herself standing on davenport table.) Jimmie魹ｽWell, he's no judge of looks if he fails to notice you, Kathie. But this Miss Joy of whom you speak; Have you captured Leatrice or Dawn and how does she happen to be here? Katherine魹ｽWell, I see you're up on your photoplays, Jimmie, as you ought to be after the course I gave you last winter. The one and only Dawn Joy is no other than mother's friend, Frances McConnell and she's really and truly here. Now tell me if you think mother has a chance! Douglas Lincoln will be wild to paint' Miss Joy! Jimmie魹ｽAnd is the other one as great a celebrity as Miss Joy? Katherine魹ｽY ou read "Heritage," didn't you魹ｽlast year's best seller? Well, Miss Hilton wrote that. Jimmie魹ｽWell, well. You have captured some big ones haven't you, Kathie? No wonder the life I have to offer looks commonplace when you compare it with the tales you must have heard from them. (Dejectedly) I suppose I may as well go back home. My case looks hopeless. Katherine (impulsively) 魹ｽ Jimmie, let's be sporting about this. Let's make Douglas Lincoln's decision ours. But it's three to one for me, you know. Jimmie魹ｽI remember your mother, though I met her only once; 1 don't think my chances are so poor. But where are they all? Katherine 魹ｽ The family, with Miss Hilton and Miss Ramsay are having a picnic luncheon in the apple orchard. Miss Joy is still in her room where her maid is performing beauty rites, I imagine. Say, Jimmie, I'm maid here today魹ｽwhy couldn't you run out and Join the others? They'll give you something to eat, and I'm sure you're famished. You know mother魹ｽtell her I sent you out, I must preside at the door, for our distinguished guests may put in an appearance any time. The hour of their arrival was indefinite. (Enter Dawn Joy. She is artificially beautiful and very welldressed. She comes in at the door, r. C. And to center stage between Jimmie, left and Katherine, right, who have risen. Dawn魹ｽWhat luck! I didn't expect to find such a charming youth outside of Hollywood. (To Katherine, as she goes closer to Jimmie) Hurry and tell me who he is, Katherine, for I do miss my court. Katherine魹ｽThat's Jimmie Halstead, Miss Joy. He was just going to join the others outside. They're having luncheon under the apple trees, Miss Joy. Would you care to join them, too? Dawn (languidly) 魹ｽNo, I'm afraid not. You see there are two dangers out there for me魹ｽfood魹ｽ Oh, I haven't eaten "food" for years!魹ｽand then the out-of-doors might ruin my make-up for Mr. Georges' inspection; and, mercy, Donnette has been all morning turning me out. (Sighs) I've had my grape-fruit! Jimmie魹ｽWell, then, I'll run along, Kathie. Must find some way to pass the time魹ｽ魹ｽ Dawn (lays hand on his arm)魹ｽ Why not come out on the sun porch and talk to me? I need a new leading man for my next picture and I'm sure I could get the place for you if you'd like it. Jimmie魹ｽOh, I'm not much of an actor. Dawn魹ｽYou wouldn't need to be 魹ｽin my picture. I've had ever so many of my leading men tell me that to be my lover on the screen they had only to act natural. Do you think you could fall for me like that? Katherine (impulsively) 魹ｽ Why you're old enough to be Jimmie's mother Dawn魹ｽOh, one is only as old as one looks and acts, my dear. Cleopatras never age魹ｽand I could do a lot for Jimmie. (To Jimmie) How about it魹ｽfood for the body, or food for the魹ｽimagination? Jimmie魹ｽThe sun-porch sounds good to me. (They go out door, right. ) Katherine魹ｽJimmie's just like the others魹ｽhe soon forgets about his ideals when some one like Miss Joy beckons. (Doorbell, back center. Katherine answers the door. Enter Jesse Georges. ) Georges魹ｽ( As he gives her his things )魹ｽPlease tell Miss Joy that Mr. Georges is here. My dear, you are quite too pretty to be playing the maid. Katherine (rather breathlessly) Well, when one is a beggar-maid, and King Cophetua's ring must needs be answered, one forgets that the daughter of the household does not answer the bell. Mr. Georges (Looks again at her, keenly) Say, I wish I had you in Hollywood for some camera and voice tests! I think I am on the brink of making another discovery! (Notices photograph) You photograph splendidly. I'm sure you'd go over big! Katherine (enthralled) 魹ｽ Oh, do you think so? I have always dreamed of being a real actress some day! Mr. Georges魹ｽWhy not come back with Miss Joy?魹ｽDo you sing? Katherine魹ｽMy teachers all say my voice is very good, Mr. Georges, CAREERS 83 84 lr. Georges魹ｽAnd I suppose you dance? Katherine魹ｽI have had dancing lessons for years. Mr. Georges魹ｽI must speak to your parents about your going back with us. Is Miss Joy around? Katherine魹ｽI魹ｽll call her; she's on the porch. (Exit Katherine, left.) Mr. Georges (studying the photo| graph) I believe I've found someone who will be hailed as the sensation of the year. She's a whole lot more worth looking at than the scenery I'm supposed to be viewing out here. (Enter Dawn Joy) Dawn (cooingly to Mr Georges) 魹ｽHas the big nice man brought his little Joy a nice fat contract? Mr Georges (temporizing)魹ｽOf course, and we've got some swell things planned for you Dawn How would you like the fat part of Nancy in Hoffenbury's "Flaming Soul?' (rubs his hands together unctuously, but eyes her anxiously) Dawn (amazement turning to anger) Why魹ｽwhy魹ｽshe's forty years old or more! How魹ｽhow dare you? Mr Georges魹ｽBut all the stars are declaring for sophisticated parts and 魹ｽwell, Dawn, we've talked things over at the studio, and, frankly, we think the parts you've been playing are too young for you People are beginning to get sarcastic about our casting a foyty-year-old woman as the sweet young thing you have been playing Dawn (speechless rage bursting into audible fury)魹ｽHow dare you say that to me! Oh, you're just like all the rest! You know I don't look a day over seventeen in my pictures, and yet you think you can bully me like this. After all I've starved and sweat and endured to keep youthful, you can come to me like a monstrous ingrate, forgetting the money that has rolled into your coffers whenever my pictures have been exhibited, and insult me! Mr. Georges魹ｽNow, now, Dawn, let's look at this sensibly. You know and I know that you are through with the kind of parts you have been playing. We thought we'd make a picture starring you in an older part. And if it went over, sign you up to do some similar ones. I'm sorry. We want to do right by you, but making pictures costs money and we can't risk too much. We're willing to give you a trial in this new type of picture, but we can't make any more of the kind you have been playing in. Dawn (calmer now )魹ｽOh, I knew it was coming.魹ｽWell魹ｽall I can do is take the medicine. It will be a great relief to be able to relax a little, anyway. Too old! (Sinks to davenport, on her face a look of stony despair.) (Enter Katherine, left.) Katherine魹ｽWould you like to come out and meet the others, Mr. Georges? Mr. Georges魹ｽI should like to see Miss Ramsay alone, first. But take Miss Joy out with you. She'll want to tell you all about our ambitious plans for her. We're going to film "Flaming Souls'! Katherine魹ｽOh, how perfectly splendid! And Dawn is to be Naida? Dawn魹ｽHow absurd! No; they're going to let me do a real part at last. I'm to play "Nancy"! (Katherine looks at her, dubiously, but follows her out, left.) Mr. Georges魹ｽPride! It's a good thing a movie star has that to fall back upon. (Sighs) Well, it's a tough game for all concerned魹ｽup today and down tomorrow, one never knows. (Enter Rose Ramsay.) Rose (rather timidly, as if afraid of what she is to hear) You wished to see me, Mr, Georges? Georges魹ｽYes, but I hope the news I have isn't bad; I mean, you still have your operatic career. Rose魹ｽThen you mean? Georges魹ｽThat the fickle 'mike' just didn't like your voice, Miss Ramsay. Rose (involuntarily) Oh-h Georges (surprised) Does it mean a great deal to you? Rose魹ｽOnly this: it would have secured my future. I haven't been able to save very much as a second rate opera singer, and I'm beginning to realize that the years ahead can be rather dreadful to one who is forty and has no one to care for her especially.魹ｽShall we join the others? (As they exit, left, enter Mary Hilton, Joyce, and Betty Ellen, back center. ) Mary (to Joyce)魹ｽAnd did all those charming stories come out of your head? 魹ｽ Joyce魹ｽMother helped me with them. We imagine together and then I write them down魹ｽI like to do that. Mary魹ｽIt must be very satisfactory to havea little girl to help with stories (musingly.) Joyce魹ｽDo you help your little girl, Miss Hilton? Mary魹ｽNo; I haven't any children, except those I create with my brain. Betty Ellen魹ｽDon't you get lonesome? Why Mother has Kathie, Joyce and me at home, but she misses Jack and Joe, my big twin brothers who are in New York. And Ted, who is spending his vacation with grandfather on the farm, so much! Mary (half to herself) I shall be lonesome魹ｽI know I shall be魹ｽafter I leave here. (After a moment, throws off the mood she is in) But, let's have a look at that picture! Betty Ellen (leading her to the blackboard)魹ｽHere it is! Mary (after studying it for a short time) 魹ｽThat's really very good, Betty Ellen. Some day, no doubt Joyce will write and you illustrate her stories. Joyce (excitedly) 魹ｽ That's just what Jack and Joe do, Miss Hilton. But I'd rather have some children like mother has than write like you do and live all alone. Mary魹ｽI'm sure you have chosen wisely. It isn't nice to be alone魹ｽand one can be so alone at forty! (Enter the others, Cornelia in center with package. They group themselves around her, Mary, Joyce, Betty Ellen, Mr. Georges, and Miss Joy, left, and Katherine, Jimmie, Rose Ramsay, and Ward Leighton, right. ) Joyce魹ｽWhat have you, Mother? Cornelia魹ｽSomething from Jack and Joe魹ｽvery precious, I'm sure. That's why I wanted you all to be here when I opened it. (Removes wrappings to display new book which she opens excitedly.) To魹ｽ (her voice breaks and she hands book to her husband) You read it, Ward. Mr. Leighton (with deep feeling) 魹ｽ"To our Mother, Cornelia Leighton, who lighted the torch and showed us the gleam, this book is affectionately dedicated by her sons." (Speaks to Cornelia) Cornelia, at last you have written a book! And not only have you written it but you have illustrated it, as well, I see. (All examine it excitedly. Doorbell rings; Katherine ushers in Douglas Lincoln who comes center, right.) Cornelia (giving him her hand) We are glad to welcome you, Mr. Lincoln. (Introduces him to the others. ) Jimmie (As he shakes hands impulsively )魹ｽ-And now, do your stuff, CAREERS 85 86 Mr. This! Douglas (gently)魹ｽAn eye much less keen than that of an artist would have no trouble in making the choice I have been asked to make. I shall have to tell you, frankly, what I see. (With a gesture indicating Mary, Rose, and Dawn) In these faces, I read the story of lives lived all for self, and selfishness is not an ingredient of beauty On the other hand, (indicates Cornelia) here is a face that proclaims that its owner, having given all has won all! Lincoln. I have a stake in Katherine魹ｽMother? Blind I have been! Cornelia魹ｽBut the others 魹ｽ I would much rather they had won. I have so much already魹ｽso much! Jimmie (as he takes Katherine's hand)魹ｽAnd doesn't the Good Book have something to say about that? Douglas魹ｽ"To him that hath shall be given, and from him that hath not shall be taken away, even that which he hath." Oh, how (Curtain)
The Voicing Wilds of America
By S. T. Brimhall Foley
The voicing wild's mute eloquence In golden silence streams From ruined walls and caverns deep Where scarce the sun-light gleams; Intelligence there testifies Through massive walls of stone Or prison chambers 'neath the earth Of peoples long unknown.
The tangled growth of sunny climes Fall like the reapers mow, Yielding to hordes of alien hands Which lay its curtains low, Freeing the towers and ancient walls From loneliness and dread To let their silent beauty speak The grandeur of their dead.
The fortress on the mountain height Speaks volumes of some race Pursued by other bands of men Which roamed from place to place; Deep in the caves of mountain sides, In chambers dark and still Ingenious wares speak cultured hands' Intelligence and skill.
The moaning winds of barren lands O'er ruined cities stray Yet blend no more with sound of hoof Or feet of child at play; Clay mounds of Montezuma speak And say: This spot is dear For they who called this place their home In spirit form are near.
The riven rocks still shield the bloom Of plants that Eden grew, And wild birds bear the iris tint Of bows that crowned the blue; All these and more in symphony With treasures from the hill Are speaking truths in harmony Through voices low and still.