7 EDITORIAL The Centenary of the Coming Forth of The Book of Mormon Everywhere in the world today everything that is American is being played up. An article in the Century, for July, calls the United States the "most talked-of country" in the world. This is a natural outgrowth of the fact that America has assumed world leadership, in a number of ways, since the war. As a consequence, everything that is intrinsically American has taken on added importance and has received added emphasis. This added importance and added emphasis has not failed to reach the "Mormon" people. The editor of the Forwm in writing of the "Mormon" people, in the July issue, 1926, displayed some pride in the fact that the "Mormon" religion is American and for a very obvious reason. The "Mormon" religion in, connection with Christian Science makes it possible to refute a familiar charge from the old world, that the new world has given us no religions that are indigenous to American soil. As years go on and the United States becomes a more potent factor in the world than she is at present, when all well informed people will be as ready to admit that the United States has assumed spiritual and intellectual leadership as they are now willing to admit that she-has assumed financial 
 leadership, then the pride of the American people will increase in the fact that the "Mormon" religion is an American religion and that the Book of Mormon is an American book. The Book of Mormon an Inspirer of Art The Book of Mormon has inspired a good deal of art, already, and it is safe to say that it will be the inspiration of much more in the future. Sculpture, painting, stained glass windows, hymns, drama, pageants, poems have each in turn drawn their material from the Book of Mormon, making a contribution of real worth to the lives of Latter-day Saints and helping to develop a distinctive civilization. At the present, sculpture appears to be in the lead in Book of Mormon art. We have on the west side of the Hawaiian temple, an elaborate frieze depicting characters and events in Book of Mormon history. At the rear of the temple is a piece of statuary representing Lehi blessing his son Joseph prior to his death. The frieze is very beautiful. It contains statues of Moroni, Columbia, (U. S.), Mormon, Hawaiians, Laborers, Hagoth, Sincere Refinement, Gadianton, Korihor, Kishkumen, Humble Believer, III Nephi, Christ, Ammon, Father and Mother of Lamoni, Samuel, Moroni, Teancum, Amalekiah, Coriantum, King Noah, Alma, Lamon, Nephi, Joseph, Lehi. We feel sure our readers will be glad to note the very soulful piece of work representing Lehi blessing Joseph. These two pieces of work are the work of Avard Fairbanks, a son of the artist, J. B. Fairbanks, born in Provo, Utah, who is constantly attracting attention because of his work. Avard Fairbanks is the sculptor of the monument to the Three Witnesses unveiled during the April conference of the current year. Perhaps no other piece of sculpture inspired by the Book of Mormon has stirred more souls and elicited more favorable comment than the statue of the Angel Moroni crowning the east spire of the Salt Lake Temple. This beautiful image is the work of Cyrus E. Dallin, born in Springville, Utah. It holds a very high place in American sculpture.:, Many will recall pictures, paintings and stained glass windows decorating Latter-day Saint places of worship that have used Book of Mormon material. Our beautiful hymn, "An Angel from | on High" has thrilled thousands. The play, "Corianton," as well as the pageants that have been put on by the auxiliary organizations of the Church are all indicative of a future of art inspired by the Book of Mormon, that cannot fail to be both great and glorious. There is a story current that Martin Harris, one of the three witnesses of the Book of Mormon stepping on to the Temple EDITORIAL 437 Block, exclaimed, "See what the Book of Mormon hath wrought!" In a sense the Book of Mormon is responsible for the building' on the Temple Block, Salt Lake City, and all other Latter-day Saint temples. The Greatest of all American Books One hundred years ago on the 22nd of September, 1827, the Angel, Moroni delivered the plates containing the Book of Mormon to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We do not hesitate to call it the most important of American books. We do this because the book contains the history of people who lived on this continent from the time of the confounding of tongues at the Tower of Babel to 400 A. D. It contains the gospel in its simplicity and is a new and powerful witness for Christ. If any other American book can lay claim to'such importance as the Book of Mormon, we shall retract what we have said, for this challenge is issued in all sincerity. The Evening-Tide By Henry F. Kirkham How peaceful is the gentle evening-tide! The setting sun has gone to final rest, The cooling breezes from the canyon come, And robin red-breast sings his parting song. Over earth a solemn silence falls, The evening star shines faintly in the east, The busy cares of day are laid aside, And calm and quiet settles over all. Brief period, ere the shades of night descend, And darkness takes the burden of the day, A sudden pause, as if God said to man, "Turn thee from things of life—and worship me." LEHI BLESSING HIS SON JOSEPH Biblical Mothers' Pageant By Laura M. Jenkins (This pageant is recommended by the committee for. Special Occasions) EVE Thou wert a wonderful mother, Chosen by power divine; Brought to this earth from another Sphere, of the heavenly shrine. Mother thou art of the races, Eve thy adorable name, Grief on thy brow left its traces: Earth's children honor thy fame. Sarah, Rebecca and Rachael, Mothers ef Bible renown, Honored forever in Israel— Worthy of Motherhood's crown. Miriam, silver tongued songstress, Woman by Israel revered, Gladening their wearisome wanderings, Over the desert so weird. Deborah, deliverer of Israel, Conqueror of Sisera brave. Long shall we sing of thy victory, Israel from bondage to save. Fair Ruth, the Moabite maiden, Gleaning in Boaz's field, With sheaves from the harvest laden Truly a bounteous yield. Cherished her life through the ages, Ever remembered shall be; Written on history's pages, David's ancestress was she. Esther, thou fair Jewish daughter, Chosen, though captive, a queen, Saving from Haaman's fierce slaughter. The Jews, by strategy keen. Honored for aye by thy people, Thy deeds in Biblical lore, Spoken and sung by all nations, Worthy, I mean, to adore. 
 Mary, Christ's mother, we hail thee! Thine was a mission divine; ' True e'er, though demons assailed thee, Ever thy glory shall shine. Virgin of Deity's choosing, Mother of God's only Son. Saving a world, in thy losing, Life hath its victory won. Mother through Gabriel's promise, Eliz'beth stricken in years. - Thy son—Emmanuel's forerunner, Now in our story appears. Clean through his life, he was worthy. In Jordan's waters he gave Baptism e'en to earth's Savior, He who was mighty to save. Sisters of Laz'rus, we hail thee! Mary and Martha so true, Honored your home in old Bethany, Jesus our King dwelt with you. Mary of Magdala, faithful To Jesus right to the end. Last at the Cross—first at the tomb. More than follower and friend. "Mary," thy name the first spoken By his resurrected voice, Sweetly those accents betoken Woman thou art of his choice. Tabitha, angel of mercy, Feeding and clothing the poor: When death laid his hand upon thee Their tears and pleadings were sore, Till Peter's faith interceded With Heaven thee to restore. Raised from the dead midst rejoicing Able to mingle once more. Now in this last dispensation God, through his Prophet, again Opens the door of salvation, Which through dark ages had been Closed; while earth's children in darkness Wandered and prayed for the light. Now it shines forth in its brightness, Breaking the shades of the night.