The Movement away from the Home Lowry Nelson We used to do most of the manufacturing of the world in the home. The weaving industry, the knitting industry, food preparation, and a hundred other lines of manufacturing was done in the home. The home is still a manufacturing plant of considerable consequence. Despite the fact that many of the manufacturing processes have been removed to the factory, the home still holds a commanding position with respect to certain commodities. Take for example the preparation of food. Every home is a small canning factory. Practically every housewife "puts up" a quantity of fresh fruit, jams, vegetables, and occasionally meats. But even though the housewife should not put up any canned food, she still is a manufacturer, for she'takes the raw meat, vegetables and fruit from the farm and transforms them for the dinner table. We still have "home-cooked meals." Since manufacturing is merely the act of changing materials from the raw to the finished state, the housewife who cooks her own meals is a manufacttirer. But there is a great reduction, even in food, of the amount prepared in the home. The restaurant, the cafeteria, the delicatessen, have all conspired against this last stand of the home as a factory. Then there are still other manufacturing functions which go on in the home, despite the Industrial Age. The making and renovating of clothing amounts to considerable, when all homes are considered. We have thrown the spinning wheel and weaving loom out of the home, but we still keep the sewing machine. However, the real purpose of the home never has been to spin wool, or weave cloth. Its time-honored function is the production and care of children. Men and women marry—and always have married for the purpose of having children and rearing them to manhood and womanhood. This is its one excuse for existence. The making of clothing and food are incidentals, and can be done more efficiently, economically, and usually better, outside the home, because they are done by experts. ' And there are people—George Bernard Shaw, for example— who hold that the home is no place to rear children. "More children are ruined," he says, "by the pampering influence of mothers, than are ever helped." So he advises putting infants in a public nursery, under the care of child experts. Thus mother, as well THE MOVEMENT AWAY FROM HOME 443 as father, is left free to "live their own lives." Well, you may think about Shaw's idea, anyway! But in connection with this fundamental business of childrearing, the home has been at once an educational institution, house of worship, and a place for recreation. Here again, it has been relinquishing its functions to the respective specialized institutions, While the home is still an important force in the education of the child, it does not hold the place in this respect which it once held. The private school, first came to relieve the homes ' which could afford it, of the responsibility of education. Then came universal and compulsory education fostered by the state. Today the average child leaves the home at the age of six—sooner if the anxious mother can manage it so—and from then, until the age of 18 or more, is the charge of the school for about 180 days of each year. Religious teaching and worship formerly was a part of the parental function in each home. In Burns' poem, "The Cotter's Saturday Night," the peasant father calls his family about him and says, "Let us worship God." Bible reading, hymn singing, and praying, were engaged in by the entire family. That condition, unfortunately, has largely passed and gone. We leave our religious education to the church. There are. Millions of young people under 21 years of age in the United States, who do not come under the influence of any church organization whatsoever. What percentage of young people of "Mormon" faith are not reached by any of the church organizations, I do not know, but I suspect it to be larger than we realize. As a place of entertainment, the home again has lost ground. The most significant decline in this respect has come within the last two decades. The United States has been a country of more or. Less isolated homes. Only in 1920 did we achieve a greater city than country population. That is, for the first time in history the city folks outnumbered the country folks by a slight margin. This is important because it indicates that the percentage of farm folks becomes less year by year. And it has been these farm folks who, in the past, have kept their homes as places of recreation. House parties used to be the chief source of amusement. The spelling bee, and other competitive games grew out of these parties. The essential thing about them was that the participants created their own fun. It was therefore real recreation. Gradually the providing of amusement also became a function of private enterprise, until at the present time it forms one of the leading industries of the nation. In fact, the motion picture industry ranks fourth in magnitude among the industries of the nation. 
 The fact is that we are purchasing most of our amusement today, rather than creating it ourselves. It is so easy to entertain our friends at the movie, or the theatre, or the resort, and we are all so busy with this or that, we cannot give a home party the time and energy it requires. Nor do I deplore the coming of these things. We can all enjoy the blessings of modern science as they come, from its application to transportation, communication, and amusement. The aim here is merely to get clearly in mind the situation as it exists at the present time, with the thought in mind that the home is losing its old functions, and is in a manner, in competition with these new institutions which have grown up around these functions. What actually remains for the home to do? Is it losing its power as an institution in society? How can it hold its own and grow in power and influence? Some attention will be given these questions in a later article. The Tryst By Mary Hale Woolsey Day is a maiden light of heart, Marking her path with gold; Night follows after, adoringly— He is her lover bold. One little hour she gives to him, A trysting-hour each day, When the sun is sinking in the west And shadows grow long and gray. She, in a gown of rainbow hues, With jewels in her hair, Waits on the rim of a purple hill; Anon he will meet her there.. She yields herself to his fond embrace; He would claim her for his own— But at his kiss, she blushes and flees! Night rules the world... Alone.