[Vol17 | August 1930 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: The Pledge of Oberammergau Olga Wunderly Snell]
The Pledge of Oberammergau By Olga Wunderly Snell THAT is it that insistently calls the visitor back to the lonely valley of the Ammer?

Not the mountains for they are not more beautiful than others in that region, not the winding river whose banks are verdant yet devoid of the charms of an Isar, not the picturesque houses and their inhabitants whose pleasant '"Guess Gott" welcomes the stranger to partake of the country's hospitality.

It is the atmosphere, the spirit of 1633 still lingering over the hallowed spot, living on perennially in the heart of every Oberammergauer and finding expression in his every-day walk and deed.

Coming from Munich and -approaching the home of the Passion Play the eye is attracted upward to a large cross erected upon the highest peak of Mount Koffel.

Of symbolic importance, it seems at once to protect, to guard, and to bless; for it is to the memory of Him whose life was sacrificed upon the cross, and in grateful remembrance of a prayer answered that the people of Oberammergau pledged to.

Perform the Passion of Christ ery tenth year.

HEN nearly fires: hundred years ago the plague ravaged | fhe country and threatened to annihilate the entire village, the lowly peasants, in their hour of despair, turned to Him who said: "And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive." The twelve oldest men of the town called the people to a special service.

At the Church and there they all solemnly vowed that if the Lord - would preserve them and their.

Families from further destruction, they would portray the suffering of.

The Savior as an offering of thanksgiving as well as for the "edification of mankind in general." Their trusting faith stayed the hand of the destroyer and although many were stricken with the disease, none died.

The following year, 1634, saw the fulfillment of their vow and the first performance of the "Great Atoning Sacrifice on Golgotha," as the play was then called.

To this day they have kept the pledge of their fathers.

BYERY member of the community looks forward to the season of the Great Play with tense anticipation and many are the preparations, both personal and communal.

The play was written by one of them with the help of the scriptures; the music, too, is a home product; in fact, it has been composed twice as the first composition was destroyed by fire in 1817. For costuming and setting they looked to the masters of old for inspiration.

God Himself created the background, for the stage is built in the open surrounded by the rustic beauty of the quiet valley.

The participants ithemselves display a sincerity, a devotion and simple eloquence which go far to make the great religious drama a success as it unfolds from the time of Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem to the rolling away of the stone and the message of the angel: "He is risen." Thus with gratitude we turn to the mountaineers of Oberammergau who not only 'preserved for the world a piece of art almost unchanged from the Middle Ages but in.

The sweet serenity of their mountain home have nurtured an ideal whose loftiness touches all who come within its sphere.

Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest ANNOUNCEMENT, 1930 This memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually.

Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.

Two prizes will be awarded, a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. 2. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks. 3. Only one side of the paper should be used. 4, Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address.

Nom de plumes should not be used. 6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest. 7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 8. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15, 1930. The prize poems will be published each year in the January issue of -the Relief Society Magazine.

Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates.

All entries should be sent to Mrs. Mary C. Kimball, Editor, Relie/ Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15, and statement should accompany them that they are entered in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest.
