LESSON 3
Literature (Third Week in October)
THE SHORT STORY: AN INTRODUCTION TO THE LITERARY LESSONS FOR 1930-31
The lesson material for the short story work is to be found in a one-volume text book, Great Short Stories of the World by Clark and Lieber. It is a collection of complete short stories, chosen from the literature of all periods, and from thirty-odd countries. If necessary, class leaders will find in the book sufficient material for conducting the year's work, but from time to time there will be published in this section titles of other collections, biographical material, and books on the study of the short story. Some of the class leaders' favorite authors may not be included. Other teachers may wish that a different story had been selected. In these cases the instructors may decide to use material outside the text. It would also be well for the teachers to keep in mind the fact that in their classes will be representatives from many nations?Great Britain, France, Norway, Germany, Holland, etc. As the lesson work progresses each sister-student will have an opportunity to know more of her literary heritage. She will learn to know the early story tellers of her race?how these artists used the material found in their particular environment, and how the story telling needs of her native country have changed in succeeding centuries.
Just as a person cannot come to an appreciation of poetry without much intimate contact with the poems themselves, so she cannot have an understanding and feeling for the art of short stories without actually reading or hearing them. Many of the stories should be read in class by the most fluent readers the Society can produce. But this alone will not be sufficient. The instructors should urge that the members read as widely as possible in the text and in other collections, and whenever possible in the better type of contemporary magazines. In this way the class members will form new standards of judgment, and they will have an added delight and appreciation for the short story writers of our day.
At the present time the term "short story" has a fairly definite meaning. It is an individual in prose as a lyric or epic poem in poetry, and writers of modern short stories study certain technique and conform to certain standards. There have been numerous volumes written to explain the changes in the "short story" and to differentiate it from the story that is merely short. In Great Short Stories of the World the authors have used none of these theories as the one basis of material selection. Instead, the collection presents a wide variety of stories which the authors believe will appeal to the general reader. The essential purpose of all stories is to entertain, and it will be interesting to note the similarity and the changes in the material and technique of the stories, say, since the days of the ancient Chinese and today, when a person buys his short story magazines as methodically as he meets his monthly bills.
However, for the purpose of understanding the art of present-day short stories, which had their development in America and France during the nineteenth century, and which in 1930 have spread to every writing country, the qualities of the short story will be considered. One student has defined the short story as "a small piece of segment of the life of its characters viewed by itself, away from what has gone before and what comes after." This segment should have the following traits:
1. The narrative should be short enough to be read easily at one sitting.
2. It must be written so as to produce a single impression on the mind of the reader. In order to accomplish this the story must be pitched in one emotional key, and at every stage the action must add to the development of the basic idea. Humor and pathos may be mingled, but they must produce the same effect in the end. Everything that does not tend to produce the single impression must be excluded.
3. The story must be complete and final in itself.
4. No matter how impossible the plot may be, the story must have every indication of reality.
That, in brief, defines the short story. Still, there are many qualities a short story must have in order to be a good one. One of the major requirements is that in some way the writer must make the story so close to life that the reader is drawn into its enchantment. For the time being he must live as if he were a participant in the event. Naturally, too, there must be a combination of plot and character, for without action there can be no story. The plot, itself, is often simple, and the best story has an underlying idea?not necessarily a moral one?which can be expressed in a single sentence. As an illustration, Daudet's story of the "Last Lesson" has for its theme a phase of French patriotism. It is common for the short story to emphasize one of three or four points?character, action, setting, or theme. Some stories may stress two, and occasionally a rare story is found where all of the points seem to have an almost equal prominence. And the story is best that deals with few characters, two or three perhaps, and seldom over five. It may be told in the main by one of two ways, subjectively, where the author reveals the motives and mental currents of the character or characters as in Anderson's "Sophistication," or objectively, where he discloses what the characters think by quoting their speech and action. Verga follows this method of presentation in his story "Cavalleria Rusticana." Both methods are closely interrelated. No matter which one is dominant, it is best for the story to be told from the point of view of one person. Where several persons' points of view are presented, the reader becomes confused and loses his unity of impression and emotion. There must be distinction in phrase, epithet, sentence, structure, and diction. And there must be originality of thought, and if possible a touch of fantasy. All of these tend to make up that rather undefinable thing known as style. Today's writer also stresses that the style must be direct and vigorous, however subtle it may be in suggestion. Almost every decade sees some variation of these characteristics, yet in the essentials the short story remains the same.
For the convenience of the class leaders some suggestive problems suitable for the course are included in this Introduction.
1. Theme of story. What is it; does it have an original slant, and how is it handled?
2. Beginning of story. This is highly important and is the most difficult for the writer. How has he handled the problem? Is your interest caught from the first word? (In a short story the writer can spend only a few words or a sentence in the introduction. The action must start from almost the first word.) How has he managed to start his action and dialogue with reference to exposition and description? Is his arrangement suitable to his particular story?
3. Point of View. How told?impersonally or by one of the characters? What advantages or disadvantages comes to the author from his method of telling? Does the point of view shift at any time during the story?
4. Ending. Does the story end at the exact point or does it fade into an anti-climax? Is the ending effective, or should it come earlier? Does the ending satisfy? If there is a surprise ending, has adequate preparation been made for it?
5. Plot. Is the plot too obvious or is it hidden? What use is made of dramatic forecast and clues? If the time covered is long, have the high spots of the action been touched? Is the major climax heightened by a series of minor ones? Have someone state the plot as briefly as possible.
6. Style. Is the style suitable to the material and emotional tone of the story? Does the style add any charm of its own? Is the dialogue natural? If the story is told in the first person, does the teller express himself as such a person would in actual life? Does the author have a characteristic style which would make it possible for a reader to identify other of his stories? If this is true, explain why.
If time permits it would be well to close this introductory lesson by the class leader reading a short story. It should be a brief one, exemplifying the best qualities of a short story. One of Poe's, O'Henry's, Maupassant's, or Daudet's "The Last Lesson," found in the text will be suitable. Maupassant's "The Necklace" is also a suitable one, provided the members are not already very familiar with it.
Books about the short story which will be helpful to the class leaders: The Short Story in English, by H. S. Canby. The Story Teller's Art, by Charity Dye. The Philosophy of the Short Story, by Brander Matthews. Short Story Writing, by Walter B. Pitkin. Writing the Short Story, by Esenwein. The Short Story, Its Principles and Structure, by Albright. The Development of the American Short Story, by Pattee.
"The