She Pansy-Picker Vernessa M. Nagle [' our little town we have a Mary and a Martha. But what town doesn't have? From each I have garnered wisdom, a degree of tolerance and patience, Jessons in community service, and faithfulness to the teachings of the gospel, and from one, a smattering of humor. But the philosophies of our Mary and our Martha are in such sharp contrast that I am frequently challenged in my interpretation of the antitheses of their idealogies. Our Martha is efficiency personified. She prides herself on the whiteness of her wash. Hers is the first to appear on the clothesline come Monday morning. Her home is immaculate; her children attired with perfection of detail. She is neighborly and kindly, but occasionally a bit critical of the less efficient. Yet her disciplined mode of life does not get in the way of her thoughtfulness in time of sorrow and her awareness of the unfortunate about her. Our Mary has been known to hang a wash on the line at a most unorthodox hour. Her home shows signs of family living, but there is a solidarity of the group that is heart-warming. She was once discovered, to her mortification, by our Martha, sitting on the floor of her living room, sans dignity, sans dishes washed, cutting out paper dolls with her young family, whose ecstasy in the experience was little affected by the intrusion. Her tolerance with the erring one is so worthy of emulation and her personality so comfortable that she is compelled to listen to neighborhood woes, when she actually should, according to local codes, be laundering the dusting cloth. When our Martha recently suggested to our Mary, rather pointedly, that her sheets would appear more attractive on the line if they were stretched a bit more uniformly, Mary smiled apologetically, remarking in her sweet, confident way, "I suppose I really am a trifle absent-minded this morning, for after I had hung my last sheet on the line, I dawdled a bit. You see, I stopped to pick a pansy." We need more pansy-pickers in today's society to slow down the tempo of our hectic living. Pansy-pickers are kindly folk. Their genuineness and sincerity radiate. They are those who have found that '""The beauty which old Greece or Rome sung, painted, wrought, lies close at home"' (John Greenleaf Whittier). — | —e DEPARTMENT 7: J