[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
Social Science —Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 8 — Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part I: Concepts of God Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, October 25, 1960 Objective: To discover how our concepts of God influence our potentialities for spiritual living. Introduction HE meaning and focus which spiritual living has for us depend significantly upon many factors, among which are included our concept of divinity, our concept of man, our understanding of the purpose of life, and the value we 488 place upon people. The concept which we have of God determines the type of relationship which we establish with him. Since relationships with God and others form the core of spiritual living, the type of relationships we establish must, of necessity, be of major concern to persons seeking the spiritual life. Importance of Learning About and Worshiping God There would be little controversy, if any, among Latter-day Saints regarding the importance of worshiping God and seeking to keep his commandments. Such passages of scripture as, "... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind" (Mt. 22:37); and "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3) are commonly known and subscribed to by all of us. But what does it really mean to love God, to know God? Man cannot begin to know all there is to know about God. In fact, what we presently know is probably a minute part of all there is to know and that we may some day come to understand. Nevertheless, all of us have certain basic beliefs and feelings about God. We have obtained and developed these beliefs and feelings from many different sources and many different experiences. Even though we worship the same God and have been taught from many common sources, it ls quite probable that the nature of God and our relationship to him takes on a slightly different meaning for each of us. We would now hike to explore some general ways RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 of looking at God and consider the influence of these concepts and beliefs upon us and our behavior. Nature of God God is far greater than we can adequately describe. His whole nature and character are beyond our comprehension. Learning to know him, therefore, becomes a major challenge to us. It behooves us to be cognizant of the many factors which color the interpretation and concept which we have of God. 'The difference between what God is and our view of him is indicated in the following scriptures: Seck ve the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near: Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts (Isaiah 55:6-9). Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend (Mosiah 4:9). It is impossible in our present state of being to know the nature of God fully, but it is important for us to take a careful look at the concept of God which we have and the influence this has upon our perceived relationship with God and, in turn, the influence which our LESSON DEPARTMENT perceived relationship with God has upon our relationship with our fellow men. As Latter-day Saints we believe in a personal, living God who is an omniscient (all-knowing) and omnipotent (all-powerful) being, but beyond this, what? Note the following quotation from Lowell L. Bennion which describes the way in which varying concepts of God may arise. There is a marked difference between that which a man is, his character, and that which people think him to be, his reputation. In the latter instance, opinions are quite as divergent as are the appraising individuals themselves. If this is true of man's judgment of man, it is much more true of his idea of the Supreme Being whom he knows even less. The varying concepts of Deity, entertained by the children of men, confusing though they may be at first sight, need not be too disconcerting, for God is what he ls, regardless of what men conceive him to be. Any human characterization of the nature of God will be limited and colored by man's restricted experience. God is greater than man can adequately describe. His full nature and sublime character are beyond our complete grasp. Learning to know him is an eternal quest. Cognizant of the difference between that which He is and that which men conccive Him to be, and realizing the tremendous difference between his world and ours, we approach the subject of the Mormon concept of God in a spirit of humility and reverence, acknowledging that the loftiest picturization of God is but suggestive of the sublime reality it secks to portray. Were it not for the significance of man's view of God to his religious life, one would not have, as mortal man, the audacity to describe and characterize his Maker as fully as is here attempted. Our knowledge of our Heavenly Father 489 is limited. We are sure of some things; other questions and possibilities defy even our power of imagination. That which we do know about God ts very important, something in which we can trust and on which we can build our lives. We can assume in some respects a similar relationship with God as a small child has with his father here on earth. Though the child comprehends but a part of the total life of his parent, yet that partial knowledge may well be sufficiently valid and extensive to enable him to build a satisfactory relationship with his father, with the assurance that vear after year, with increased experience and undecrstanding, he will understand his father more fully. Though our understanding of God is restricted by our own limited experience, just as is that of the child in relation to his parent, yet there is within that experience a sufficient basis of truth to enable us to establish a satisfactory relationship with Him, one on which we can _ build permanently and with confidence. While the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ does not give us a complete understanding of the Creator and while it does not answer all questions about him, it does teach us, most positively, many important and defnite concepts concerning the character and work of the Creator and his relationship to men (BENNION LoweLL: The Religion of the Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City, Latter-day Saints Department of Education, 1940, pp. 26-27). Concepts of God Latter-day Saints hold to the belief that God is a personal being with body, parts, and passions. We believe that man was created in the image of God, physically as well as spiritually, and therefore God in appearance is similar to man without the frailties and limitations of man. God is much more than man, but man is in his image. 'This belict is founded upon many passages of scripture, but because of the limitations of space, only the following three will be cited here: 490.. When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other — This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:17.) The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us (D & C 130:22). But he [Stephen] being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the nght hand of God, And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God (Acts 7:55-56). Latter-day Saints not only believe that God is a person with a tangible body, but we also conceive of him as a living, conscious, all-wise Being. He thinks, creates, acts, loves, he is Creator, Judge, Helper, and Father. Having thus described God, we must push our explorations further to try and discover the type of Being or individual we consider him to be. Any of us could describe our earthly father as an individual with a body of tangible form; as a living, acting, loving person who experiences disappointment, etc. But when we think of our own father, we go beyond this and recall our feelings and attitudes about the kind of person he is or was, and reHlect upon the feelings we had or have about him and towards him. Let us, now, pursue these kinds of feelings in respect to God and consider various approaches to God as held by different sects. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Fear. One approach to God is to regard him as one might regard a tyrannical father, someone to fear because of his superior power, to plead with, to bribe with sacrifices, to appease as one would appease a touchy and unloving parent. In much common conversation between parents and children regarding God, he is presented as prepared to inflict punishment on those who disobey their parents or who tell a lie. History records numerous incidents in which man has cloaked his actions in the disguise of carrying out the wishes of God. Note, for example, the inquisitions and the burning of witches at the stake in our own early American history. In the latter case, the fanatical citizens of Salem took cighteen lives on Gallows Hill while the Reverend Cotton Mather quoted the Bible verse which says, "And thou shalt not suffer a witch to live" (Exodus 22:18). Why do some people believe in a God of fear? For one thing, because it has been to the advantage of men with power to control the thought patterns of those over whom they ruled. The efforts of many religious leaders have more often been dedicated to the preservation of their particular form and power than to the pursuit of significant truth. This was one of the characteristics of the Jews which made Christ angry. Power over other people — as distinct from competent leadership — can most easily be maintained through fear, a condition which many religions produce by threat of punishment, both here and in the hereafter. 'The product of such a religion is a coerced and therefore LESSON DEPARTMENT 491 false saintliness. A frightened person cannot be a sincere person, and, Recommended Music therefore, the elements of hypocrisy, fear, and guilt are introduced. For Relief Society True religion is faith in God, not fear of God as the word, fear Choruses is used today. 'The following quotation bears on this subject: Ladies Three Part We know that the Lord is merciful r a ( ) Come Ye Blessed of and kind and that he does not rejoice in My Father—Madsen...20 causing fear in the hearts of the nghteous; in Thy N nor does he command them to approach c) noe qd G Mad. Him in the spirit of fear in the sense in O Lor a all which this term is usually interpreted. It SC) a sae 7 20 is true that the wicked will fear and ( ) Go Ye Forth with tremble before him in that great day of My Word—Madsen...25 judgment and that he is angry with the ( ) Incline Your Ear— wicked, and dreadful fear and trembling Wilkes 2.0 25 will fill their hearts at his coming. The ( ) In Thy Form—Madfear spoken of in these passages in con- 2s 9 ee 20 o_o a spirit of obedience, a ( ) Let the Mountains le seeking now i. A 4 Shine fe) owiedge ls quite a dl Shout for Joy— abe gStephens - 2 -..22---.20 Such passages have no reference to (I ) Lord, We Dedicate trial ane ie this House to Thee— right or terror wherein they are coupled Madsen 20 with the principle of faith and obedience. Musi Marsda 20 The dictionary reveals several interpreta- (I ) Music—Marsden —— tions of the use of the word fear. The ( ) My Redeemer Lives interpretation of its use in the passages SGECS corre tecnoreeceees 20 enumerated is "to have _ reverential ( ) O Lovely Land, awe. " So we sce that the word fear, America—Madsen.20 as it is given in the English translations of ( ) Open Our Eyes— the Bible in the passages under considerMacfarlane _ 25 ation, means reverence with humility. ( ) Send Forth Thy Spirit—Schuetky.20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank Love and reverence are both essential in the worship of our Heavenly Father and ff -*° [lS SSvSrisemem Ss Your oreer dren his Son Jesus Christ, but those who keep DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY his commandments and are worthy to eas aie rcs mai mm stand before them need not fear, but in humility they may and shall bow the knec in great joy and reverence in the spirit of Please send the music indicated above. LJ] On Approval [] Charge L] Money Enclosed perfect worship (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Nome o. Nnescccnscccneseccesesesesececonsseecennesceeneseeensensscnes "The Meaning of Fear," Improvement Address.. Era, May 1953, page 310). City 8 SHARC oesccesceecceeneseeseeeeee 2 Magic. A second approach to God eG I is to regard him as a magical helper. Daynes Miasic This concept causes us to think of I _smpaxy God as the controller of destiny to the extent that he could end pov-: 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah 492 gg gO Og > > Og > > a> A gO 2 2 4 a a gO 2g OO 4 4 at a 4 4 4 4b at 4b a & 4 4b at at aw Qn Oh oO 2 Ob 2 Ob gO Og > gw ZIM'S Established 1932 The BEST in handicraft supplies ANYWHERE! V/V Lowest Prices! VV Newest Ideas! V/V Largest Stocks! V Most Variety! ALUMINUM TRAYS— Complete etching supplies— tier handles, etc. FOAM AND TOTE BAGS— Largest Stocks — Lowest Prices — New Ideas MOSAIC SUPPLIES— Inexpensive, easy projects — also colored, crushed rock DECORATIVE SUPPLIES— Styrofoam balls, eggs, sheets, Chenilles, Ribbons, Foils, Glitter, Christmas Corsage and Centerpiece materials FLOWER SUPPLIES— All leaves and centers — Wood Fibre — new low price — Plant Plastic and molds for all flowers JEWELRY SUPPLIES, SHELLS, BASKETRY, POPSICLE STICKS, COPPER TOOLING, BEESWAX, CANDLES, BRIGHT BLEND TEXTILE PAINTS, COPPER ENAMELING, BOUTIQUE MATERIALS — EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS! SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG Or come in and see our new ideas for Bazaars and Fall Handicrafts. Wholesale to Dealers Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah a Oe OO On Og Ob Ob ob a Og > NS 6 OO aA AAA AAA AKA KAKA AAA KA KN AN AANA DAS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 erty, war, famine, etc. Anytime he wanted to. Such a concept attributes to God the power to violate or set aside the laws of thc universe, or to reach down and by magic preserve us from the consequences of our own acts. Many want a God of magic and of supcrnatural power to make their personal experiences different from the rest of the world. Insofar as we can discover, God always obeys his own laws. President Bngham Young has stated that "... The Lord cannot violate his own law; were he to do that, he would cease to be God" (Discourses of Brigham Young, "Free Agency," 1941 [Edition, page 62). Love. In addition to the concept of a God of fear and a God of magic, there is a God of love. The God of love docs not use the coercion of fear or the enticement of magic to secure his following. God loves all men. His desire is not to condemn the children of men, but to lead them into paths of truth and righteousness. Worshiping a God of love encourages an individual to establish a close, meaningful relationship with God based upon understanding and an optimistic, yet realistic hope for the future. It adds dignity to one's concept of man and of oneself and stimulates the desire to grow and develop in order to cxperience the potentialities within oneself. The individual then looks upon God with a conviction of his love, and of his desire for man to grow into an cmotionally mature being who has the true feeling that he is following in his steps. To know God involves trying to understand him and his ways, to LESSON DEPARTMENT 493 imitate the characteristics and attributes which he has, to travel the way to perfection so that eventually we may become as he is. GET Fl [I In the words of Elder George QO. The obligations are such and our relations to him [Jesus Christ] are such that it is our most serious duty in life to know him and love him and keep his commandments and thereby know and love our Father in heaven and keep his commandments, because he is the messenger from the Father; he is the one chosen of the Father to represent him in the earth, chosen of the Father to be the Redeemer of the world, chosen of the Father to be the Creator of the world. Into his hands the Father has placed all things, and we are in his hands. One day we will stand before him to be judged, and we will be judged as to our relations to him and our attitude towards him and whether or not we have listened to his word and kept his commandments. We will all come to that day and to that accounting, and so will every man and woman in_ the world... (Morris, Grorce Q., 125th BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY Annual Church Conference). July 2nd through 9th, 1960 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT! I i I UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. S Twenty-three days, including Boston, ately; Washington, New York, and Chicago. Religious symbols dedicated to a Top broadway show will be seen. God requiring appeasement or toa Church historical places will also be c. Visited such as Nauvoo and Adam-OndiGod who is a magic helper seem — real enough to anyone who has been b ht — ST, = GUATEMALA Toug; up O Tespec cm. PPBook of Mormon Archeological Sites. Proaching God in fear of his power Tour leaving August 17, 1960. Will be or in want of his magical help are Gea ti erates not the alternatives which can be LABOR DAY held by a religiously mature person eam mee jeemvens ane Glen Canyon Dam, Sept. 3rd, 4th, and seeking to lead a spiritual life. Rath- 5th. Er the profound conviction of a nearness to God, a feeling of mutual Taking reservations now for March 1961 love for one another, not only widHawaiian Tour. Ens one's religious horizons, but provides the opportunity for the ESTHER JAMES TOURS kind of personal growth and devel- 460 7th Ave. Opment which we Latter-day Saints Phone EM 3-5229 believe inherently exist in man. ROSE PARADE TOUR Mason & Hanlin The Strodivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piono Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S.

MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover.