[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Orchids | Author: Lloyd]
Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER 3 Rosa Lee Lloyd Synopsis: Sharon and Sam Wynter, newlyweds, on their way to Fairbanks, Alaska, meet Angus McFarland, a widower, on the plane, and when they arrive in Anchorage, they are introduced to his daughter Marie who has arrived from Fairbanks. The young couple also meet Susan Elge, from Bristol Bay in the Aleutian Islands, who has brought her husband Herman to Anchorage for an operation. AM unlocked the door of S Marie McFarland's apartment, shoved the suitcases inside, then lifted Sharry in his strong arms. "Over the threshold for you, little bride," he said gaily. "Thank you, Mr. Wynter," she laughed. "I like a man who temembers tradition. And this is our first little home in Alaska!" He put her down in the middle of the living room, kissing her tenderly. "Aren't we lucky to have this apartment to come to even if it is one room, bath, and kitchenette?" he asked. "The hotel room reserved for me was ten dollars a day for one person." "Where did they think you'd park your wife?" Sharry asked, wideeyed. "With the huskies?" Sam shrugged. "They did well to get a room anywhere, I guess. But I'm glad Marie insisted we use this apartment. It's only two blocks from the university." Sharry looked up at him. "The university is four miles west of Fairbanks, I found out. I'm learning fast, don't you think?" "You're a smart girl," Sam said. "T learned a lot about Fairbanks while I was waiting for you today, ' she went on. "One newspaper said this town is supported seventy-five per cent by military installations, twenty-five per cent by mining and the university and everything else!" "Umm," Sam said, lifting an eyebrow. "One magazine editor said that without the military, Fairbanks would fold up and silently steal away!" "Very poetic," Sam chuckled indulgently. "And, no doubt, very true. But let's forget statistics and think about dinner. I'm a starving man, Mrs. Wynter." "He also said,' Sharry grinned impishly, "that Alaskans who need false teeth generally have to make a trip to Seattle." He pulled a long face. "That's serious," he said. "But we have our own teeth, so how about something to chew on?"' "Like a juicy steak," she suggested. "At three dollars a pound!" He shook his head. "We'll walk over to that supermarket on the corner. Maybe they'll have something halfway reasonable." Ten minutes later the prices in the market had Sharry and Sam holding their breath. "Sam, am I seeing straight? Does that sign say eggs are one dollar a dozen?" "Yes, one dollar a dozen. And milk thirty-four cents a quart. But Page 459 460 it's pasteurized. All milk up here must be pasteurized. No wonder McFarland said it is the cost of living that makes life in Alaska so different. But there's one advantage — my salary is three times as much as I could have made at home." "We'll need it,' Sharry said, reaching for a pound of butter. "Tll cream chipped beef with frozen peas and make some popovers. They're so good with honey. Where do they keep the honey?" "Let's ask that clerk over there," Sam suggested, looking at a young fellow with a crew-cut. He was putting cans on a shelf. "Honey?" The young fellow repeated with an amused smile. "You must be Cheechakos? 'Uhat means just arrived." "That's right," Sam laughed. "We've just arrived from Utah." HE clerk's face was a big smile. "Ym Oscar Jensen," he said cordially. "My mother came from Utah thirty years ago. She's president of the branch Relief Society. Are you members of the Church? I know she'd love to meet you." "Yes, we are. Oh, we do want to. Meet her," Sharry exclaimed, "real soon!" "Give me your name and address," he said. "She'll call on you." 'Sam wrote the address on_ his card and handed it to him. "How about that honey?" he asked. "We don't have wild honey bees in Alaska," Oscar explained. "We import bees during the summer. They produce large crops of honey from our wild flowers. 'That's what's happening now at this season, but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 we won't have the honey ready for awhile. The bees die in the winter up here. We can import honey, of course, but we'd have to charge too much for it on account of freight. Ninety per cent of our food is brought in anyway." "How about jam?" Sharry questioned. "Popovers are good with jam." "Our wild currant and berry jam is really tops," Oscar said, walking toward another shelf. 'Reasonable, too." They put the jam in their basket and said goodbye to Oscar. "Wasn't he friendly!" Sharry exclaimed as they walked back to the apartment. ""We've made another friend. Shopping won't be a lonesome job now." "The world is really a friendly place," Sam agreed. Sharry looked up sky and the tall, forest-draped mountains looming in the distance. "Six-thirty," she said. "And the sun is still shining like noontime. Won't it seem funny to have the sun shine all night." "We'll get used to it," he answered. "A fellow I met today told me that even sunstroke is not unknown up there almost under the Arctic Circle. It gets awfully cold there in the winter, though—ten degrees colder than anywhere in the U. S. A. — even in Montana or the Dakotas. But there's plenty of coal here in Fairbanks, thank goodness. It comes from the Healy River fields west of here." "But some parts of Alaska are mild," Sharry said. "I'd like to go to Ketchikan real soon. We could fly there for the week end. They have a wonderful bathing beach, and at the brilliant ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW in July the temperature is about fifty-six. Even in January it seldom gets colder than thirty-three above zero. Can we go next month, Sam?" Sam looked at her, curiously. "Did you study the map today?" he asked. "Well — no — not really," she admitted. "Ketchikan is way down there almost to Canada, barely into Alaska. We're in the central part now. There are plenty of places around here for a week-end trip. Harding Lake, for instance." Sharry's cheeks pinked up. "I just wanted to be interesting. I thought you'd want me to study about Alaska." "I do, honey. Of course Ido. I think it's great. But we can't take a long trip next month. We want to save for a home, don't we? It takes one third down on a home up here. Even a small ordinary home costs twice as much as homes outside. I want a nice home for you, darling. I know you've been used to lovely things. [Il work night and day to get them for you, but we can't take an airplane trip to Ketchikan next month. We have to find a place in which to live and get settled, and pay for that secondhand car we bought this afternoon. 'That takes money." His chin squared off determinedly. Sharry knew he was right, but she still wanted to go to Ketchikan. How did you reconcile your heart to what your head knew was right? Sam was older and wiser than she was — and more saving, she thought grimly. 'This was really their honeymoon. Why couldn't they spend a little money for a good time? But Sam's chin had set in a stubborn 461 line. She must not argue with him. She would kiss his scowl away. FTER Sam had left for the university the next morning, Sharry looked through the advertisements in the newspaper. The only house listed for rent was a three-story, twenty-room mansion on Eidgeriver Drive for two hundred and fifty dollars a month. The doorbell rang. Sharry put the paper down with a sigh. A smiling, sweet-faced woman greeted her. "I'm Rachel Jensen, Oscar's mother," she said. "He told me you are newcomers here. So I hurried might over!" "Oh, Sister Jensen, come right in. How nice of you to come so soon. We liked Oscar so much." "He's a fine boy." Sister Jensen sat down in the comfortable chair Sharry offered her. "He goes to the university mornings and works in the store afternoons and evenings. 'The store stays open all night this time of year. People work night and day to catch up after the long winter." "It's all so strange to me," Sharry told her. "After my husband left for work this morning, I felt so — all alone. Even homesick. I haven't been away from my mother before. She has always been near to help me and advise me." Sharry hesitated. She was pouring out her heart's secrets to a stranger. And yet Sister Jensen didn't seem like a stranger. She had kind, understanding brown eyes and the most gentle voice Sharry had ever heard. "I know, dear," she said, touching her hand. "Try to realize that your mother's love is always with 462 you. She is lonely for you, no doubt. I know how it is. When my daughter Betty was married last year and went way up to Nome to live, I had to realize that love and marriage were right for her. I had prayed for her happiness and when it came through a fine husband, I asked our Heavenly Father to make me strong enough to let her go joyfully into her new life. Write often to your family. You will find the miles between you melt away when a letter comes from them.' "I will, Sister Jensen," promised, "I'll write this day!" Sharry very HE picked up the morning paper, pointing to the advertisement for the big house. "It's the only one in the paper," she said. "We have to get a place right away. But two hundred and fifty dollars a month is ridiculous!" "That's the old Clairmont home," Sister Jensen explained. "It's one of the show places in our country. It was built right after the big gold rush up here in nineteen four. At that time it was the most beautiful house in 'Tanana Valley. Most of the Clairmonts' have died. The place is now-owned by a niece who lives in San' Francisco. It doesn't sell: because she wants too much money for it. It's too large and expensive for a family — the university should take it for a dormitory." "We must find a place real soon," Sharry said again. "This is our friend's apartment — Marie McFarland." "Yes, I know Marie," Sister Jensen said. "And we've 'met her daddy. 'She comes to church regularly when she's in town." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 "She's such fun," Sharry said. Sister Jensen looked at Sharry as though studying her. "Ive been wondering, dear. About a house, I mean. I do know of a place." "You do!" Sharry's eyes were luminous. "How wonderful!' "It's not what you think," she answered quickly. "It's not wonderful. But it could be fixed up until you build a house of your own. It's an old log cabin across the river from town. It belongs to us. We lived there until we built our new home about a block away. When my husband was living, he let our farm helpers live there in the summertime. I don't use it now. It's an old place — run down." Her voice trailed off, almost apologetically. Sharry felt a surge of tenderness for her kindly offer. "Td like to see it," she said. "I'll tell Sam about it when he comes home. We're expecting to get our secondhand car sometime today. So we'll drive over this evening." "Anytime." Sister Jensen stood up. "But please don't expect too much, Sharry. I don't want you to be disappointed." UT Sharry was disappointed when she saw the cabin that evening. "It does look awful, I know," Sister Jensen was saying as they walked from the long board-walled living room into the kitchen. Sharry's eyes blinked when she saw the old worn-out sink and the coal range. They looked like something out of a junk yard. The linoleum had huge, ragged bare spots. Sam's eyes were going over every- ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW thing in his quiet, calculating way. "It could be fixed up," he said. Sharry gave him a startled glance. Sam was serious. He was really considering living in this place. She could tell by the look in his eyes. "New linoleum won't cost very much," Sister Jensen suggested. "You can look through the wishbooks and find lots of things cheaper." "W/ish-books?" Sharry questioned. "Our mail-order catalogues," she explained. "We call them our wish-books. Women are _ always wishing for something new. They help us get what we need." "We could calcimine _ these walls," Sam said. "Sharry likes color. She can have her choice of colors. 'I'here's a new sort of calcimine now that dries in a few hours." Sharry pretended she didn't hear him. How could he consider living in this run-down old place? How could he! And yet, looking at him now, as he went from room to room, sizing it up, she knew he was considering it. "The floors in here could be oiled," Sister Jensen said as they went back into the living room. "That old lounge won't look half bad with a bright new cover. The chairs and table are old, but they're an interesting style. They could be lacquered." The sun slanted through the windows, showing up the cracks in the old wooden floor. How ridiculous to think of living here, Sharry thought. She would die of loneliness in a place like this. The memory of her beautiful gold and pink bedroom at home struck across her heart. She felt almost sick, 463 "The bedroom is small," Sister Jensen was saying. "But there is a good bathroom, with a shower. My husband. Was a contractor.— he built many of the homes in Fairbanks. One thing he insisted on was good plumbing fixtures. Even this cabin has good plumbing. Of course, the water comes from a well down below. You must not drink the water as it tastes of vegetables. We all buy our drinking water." Sam said, his eyes clear and steady with his engineer look: "The place is well built. I think it would be quite livable. We can get some sort of floor covering. Sharry is used to carpet. I want her to be comfortable." ISTER Jensen smiled. "Forgive me if I give you too much advice — I am just eager to help you. I had thought my own daughter and her husband would live here for awhile — then he got this fine position in Nome...." Her voice trailed off, wistfully. "I was thinking about carpet," she went on, in a moment. "It's too expensive to use unless the house is a permanent home. Some of these new linoleums with scatter rugs would be comfortable and pretty. If you want to use the cabin until you build, you can have it for almost nothing — I would enjoy having you nearby." Sharry couldn't breathe. She felt trapped and smothered. Sam was looking at her. What was the question in his eyes? What did he expect of her? "It's up to my wife," he said to Sister Jensen. "I think we could do all right here until we buy a home. But I want Sharry to be contented. It's up to Sharry." 464 There was an ache in his voice. A yearning for something. Sharry bent her head, trying to swallow the sob in her throat. Her brother Kenny's teasing voice came back to her: "Sam is used to roughing it on long, hard engineering jobs. He's used to living in a trailer or a tent. He'll expect a real woman to make a home for him. And what'll he get? A doll baby!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Slowly she lifted her head and met Sam's anxious eyes. Her heart reached out to him, loving him, wanting to be a good wife to him. She had to prove she could make a home for him even in this ramshackle old cabin. "Let's take it, Sam," she heard herself saying. "I'll try, darling — to make it — lovely — for you." (To be continued) Solitude Catherine B. Bowles The silence of Cumorah's hill Stole over the place, quiet and still. Through the woodland I wandered alone With trials, troubles, a cross of my own. A tranquil spirit soothed my fears, Calmed my heart and dried my tears. Through nature's garden I walked unseen, Feeling his presence, peaceful, serene. \Cronce, Women Christie Lund Coles Into the too-small wagons, loaded deep, (With things most precious from the young years spent Acquiring treasures that the heart would keep) She puts the most valued, those that are meant To last a lifetime in an alien place. Tokens, perhaps, to bring back memories Of warmth and comfort, each familiar face Left in a world of happiness and ease. Across the miles she rides as stoically As one born to the hardship and the tears, Rather than to a mild gentility, And loving assurance through her tender years. Upon her lips she tastes the gray of dust, Yet faces proudly everything she must. Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Adele S. Willden YAKIMA STAKE (WASHINGTON) FIRST FULLY ORGANIZED RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Left to right: Ruth Peabody, organist; LaVern Jackson, work mecting leader; Almira Ferrell, theology class leader; Barbara Blackhurst, Secretary; Leona Wood, First Counselor; Adele S. Willden, President; Ann Johnson, Magazine representative; Miriam Werner, social science class leader; Jean Christensen, literature class leader; Iclen Allen, organist; (two members absent). Sister Willden reports: '""Yakima Stake was organized in May 1959, and the stake Relief Society shortly after. This is the first time that our board has been completely organized.

Two members were absent when this picture was taken, because of illness, Arda Mae Kidman, Second Counselor, and Dora Ellis, visiting teacher message leader." Page 465 466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Photograph submitted by Lillie Cowley MISSOULA STAKE (MONTANA) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION March 24, 1960 Front row, seated, left to nght: Rosalyn J. Feild, Secretary-Treasurer; Lillie Cowley, President; Carrie L. Maughan; Thelma Browning, First Counselor; Eula Foust, Second Counselor. Second row, standing, left to right: Bernice Allred; Sara Dilworth; Evelyn Follett; Alice Loving; Yvonne Gunn; Florence Vargo; Claire Farley; Jane Colman; Alene Crist; Pheobe Wells. Sister Cowley reports: 'Sister Carrie L. Maughan (center front) of St. Ignatius Ward, was honored as a visiting teacher. Sister Maughan had 100 per cent visiting teaching, 100 per cent attendance at sacrament meetings and visiting teacher meetings, and ninety-six per cent attendance at Relief Society meetings, having missed only one meeting during the year. Sister Maughan is president of the St. Ignatius Relief Society." Photograph submitted by Pearl R. Haddock CACHE STAKE (UTAH). SIXTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MARCH 1960 SUNDAY EVENING PROGRAM Front row, left to right: Peggy Lindquist, accompanist; Ardith Carlson; Gloria Cook; Eleanor Hale; Dora Hay ward; Leah Carlson; Ruth Peck; Lillian Morrell; Barbara Gilgen: Dora Larsen; Leona 'Williams; Oretta Tate; Vivian Harris; Ann Davenport; Hazel Mattson, director. Back row, left to right: Elizabeth Nish; Joyce Roundy; Lila Anderson; Sharleen Poppleton; Marilyn Lundstrum; Rhoda Humphreys; Hannah Rosine; Minnie Jones; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 467 Melpha Squires, Counselor; Etheleen Hall; Arleen Gill; Peggy Coburn; Joyce Niederhauser; Afton Stuart; Leona Sorenson. Pear R. Haddock, President, Cache Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of Singing Mothers has been very active in ward activities. Their lovely music has been heard at November and March Sunday evening meetings, at funerals, stake Relief Society leadership meetings, and other Church meetings. The officers of the Sixteenth Ward Relief Society are: Mabel Quayle, President; Melpha Squires, First Counselor; Ann Green, Second Counselor." + wy Photograph submitted by Inez L. Pendlebury SOUTH BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, March 30, 1960 Front row, seated, left to night: Margaret Monson, who has served as a visiting teacher for sixty-one years; Carrie Larson, fifty-seven years, Afton Norman, forty-eight years; Mary Lim, thirty-five years; Myrtle Spencer, thirty-four years. Back row, standing, left to right: Hortense Stander, twenty-five years; Elder Seth W. Brown, High Council representative; Cassie Brown, thirty-six years; Inez S. Pendlebury, President, South Blackfoot Stake Relief Society; Elder Lawrence T. Lambert, President, South Blackfoot Stake; Elizabeth Olson, who has served as a_ visiting teacher for thirty-two years. (Not in the picture was Sister Mary Watt, who was seriously ill, and who passed away the next day.) Sister Pendlebury reports: "The visiting teacher from each ward, who is still active, with the longest record of service, was honored with a gift presented by Abbie Godfrey, stake visiting teacher message leader. "Included in the convention program was the film 'Unto the Least of These,' which was truly an inspiration to our visiting teachers. It was a source of much encouragement and enlightenment to them, and we have had many favorable comments about it. Our stake Priesthood authorities, President Lambert and Elder Brown, gave very fine talks, and the music was furnished by the Singing Mothers from Blackfoot Third and Riverside Wards. 'The: number sung by Blackfoot Third Ward was entitled "The Visiting Teacher's Song,' the words of which were written by Marie M. Anderson, daughter of Teresa Manwaring, director of the chorus. Following the program, a social hour was enjoyed, with refreshments served by the stake board." 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Photograph submitted by Rella B. White FRESNO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Marguerite S. Davis, First Counselor; Viorene E.. Wardle, Second Counselor; Martha B. Richards, former president. Leida Anderson, chorister, stands second from the right on the second row, and Mary Thompson, organist, stands first from the right on the second row. At this conference Sister Richards was released. 'The new Fresno Stake Relief Society President, Rella B. White, stands second from the right on the front row. Fifteen wards and branches of Fresno Stake are represented in the Singing Mothers chorus. 'They sang at two stake conferences in 1959 and one stake conference in 1960. At the last stake conference they sang "Peace I Leave With Thee" and "My Redeemer Lives." Fat isda. 3 Photograph submitted by Ruth Witty REDONDO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS AND HONORED GUESTS AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, January 29, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth Witty, President, Redondo Stake Relief Society; Laura Birch, honored guest, from Hermosa Beach Ward, the oldest visiting teacher, cighty-three years old; Susannah Carr, honored guest, from Hermosa Beach Ward, who has served for the longest period of time as visiting teacher, sixty-two years; Pauline Sessions, organist, Redondo Stake; LaDcane Cobabe, chorister, Redondo Stake. Sister Witty reports that all the visiting teachers of the stake, their husbands, and special Priesthood officials were invited to this convention. "The Singing Mothers sang two numbers: 'When Mothers Sing' and 'If Christ Came Back.' The film "Unto the Least of These' was shown, and was especially dear to us, as there were a number NOTES FROM THE FIELD 469 of Singing Mothers from our stake who participated in the film. Priesthood guests were very impressed by the film. Dora Carlson (not shown in the picture) from Redondo Second Ward, had the most consecutive years of 100 per cent visiting teaching, thirty-seven years."' Photograph submitted by Lenore C. Gunderson VALLEY VIEW STAKE (UTAH), VALLEY VIEW FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS PAGEANT "THE GOLDEN YEARS," March 17, 1960 Standing, left to right: Elaine Franklin as Emma Hale Smith; Alberta Hintz as Eliza R. Snow; Norma Searle as Zina D. H. Young; Vera Fisher as Bathsheba W. Smith; Sue Strong as Emmeline B. Wells; Alice Rudd as Clarissa S. Williams; Agnes Murdock as Louise Y. Robison; Velma Holladay as Amy Brown Lyman. Seated at the table: Ruby Huntington as Belle S. Spafford. Lenore C. Gunderson, President, Valley View Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Valley Vicw Fifth Ward presented a pageant entitled "The Golden Years,' March 17, 1960, in Relief Society meeting. It depicted the first Relief Society, organized 118 years ago by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Members of Relief Society portrayed the eight former presidents and President Spafford and gave interesting and spiritual aspects of their lives. A choral group composed of Relief Society sisters spoke scripture readings. Special musical numbers were presented. The pageant was narrated to background music and showed the growth of Relief Society from eighteen noble, Godfearing women to over 200,000 strong. It portrayed the 'Golden Years' of this society —golden in love, trust, faith, and harmony, all working together for one cause, a human cause, and from it all has come the greatest women's organization in the world today, of which every member of this society owns a share. The pageant was written and narrated by Wylene Fotheringham." LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 25—A Promise Fulfilled Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 41; 42:1-17) For Tuesday, October 4, 1960 Objective: To understand that the law of the Lord is to be taught with faith and by the Spirit. The Prophet and Kirtland, Ohio ROM our history of the Church and other sources, we learn of events in the Ohio valley to which the saints had been instructed to gather. From Section 38 we learned that when the saints gathered to the Ohio, they would receive the law of the Lord. With the great increase in Church membership in that area, it is clear that many problems would arise. This condition would make necessary the presence of the Prophet Joseph Smith to direct the activities of the growing kingdom of God. The Prophet's first visit to Kairtland brought forth an event which is an example of the seeric powers possessed by Joseph Smith. Briefly, it is recorded that in company with his wife Emma, Sidney Rigdon, and Edward Partridge (the latter two having been converted as a result of the Lamanite mission, see Lesson 22, Relief Society Magazine, December 1959, pp. 839-841), the Prophet Page 470 walked into the store operated by Whitney and Gilbert. He approached Newel K. Whitney and said: " Newel K. Whitney! Thou art the man!"... Whereupon, Mr. Whitney replied: " You have the advantage of me.... I could not call you by name as you have me "' The Prophet then said, " Lam Joseph the Prophet. You've prayed me here, now what do you want of me?" (See D. H. C. I:146. ) An indication of how the Lord prepared the way of the first missionaries into the Ohio valley and the visit of the Prophet later is told in the experience of Mr. And Mrs. Whitney. As members of the Campbellite faith, they desired to know how they might obtain the gift of the Holy Ghost. "One night," says Mother Whitney, "it was midnight — my husband and I were in our house at Kirtland, praying to the Father to be shown the way when the Spirit rested upon us and a cloud over- LESSON DEPARTMENT shadowed the house. We were out of doors. 'The house passed away from our vision. We were not conscious of anything but the presence of the spirit and the cloud that was over us. We were wrapped in the cloud. <A solemn awe pervaded us. We saw the cloud and felt the Spirit of the Lord.