[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 19 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

I want to thank you for all the lovely things I have read in The Relief Society Magazine. Some are exceptionally beautiful, and I find a world of pleasure in the Magazine. I have been guided by the Magazine when troubled, and I bless the day I started to be a subscriber. 'The covers are so lovely now, and I did so much enjoy "The Fishbite Story" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson (third prize story) in the March issue. For many years I have read the Magazine to my friends, to my grandchildren, and to women whom I have been privileged to nurse from time to time.
—Trances R. Stoker
Ogden, Utah

In the May issue, I particularly liked Caroline Eyring Miner's poem "Your Sacred Presence," although I enjoyed all the poetry. "Second Baby," the story by Dorothy S. Romney, was both well written and timely. It is easy to neglect "the next to the baby" with sad results. We can be justly proud of our Magazine, and I am sure all Relief Society members are appreciative of the fine way in which it is edited.
—Matia McClelland Burk
St. David, Arizona

What treasures the Magazine holds! Only a small book, but there is more wisdom, friendship, and courage between the covers than perchance in six other magazines of different caliber.
—Annie Laurie Shaw
Ipswich, Massachusetts

I would like to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. This dear Magazine, with its many messages, is always a joy and an inspiration to me. I have received the Magazine as a gift for many years from my husband's wonderful mother (Mrs. W. A. Fisher). Many thanks to the dear mother we are privileged to have for ours, and to all those who make The Relief Society Magazine possible.
—Mrs. Eugene Fisher
Salt Lake City, Utah

Our May Magazine gave me a wonderful thrill today and added another precious ingredient to my testimony. I refer to the article entitled "I, Too, Want to Be Useful," by Aslaug Vaieland, page 318. A few years ago, in Winnipeg, Canada, she and I, both converts to the Church, and both facing much opposition, spent many hours crying, praying, and laughing together. Now, both our lives have had many changes, and all for the better. She is in Murray, Utah, and [I am in Phoenix, and we hope to see each other very soon. My most sincere thanks for printing her article.
—Helene Prychun
Phoenix, Arizona

I would like to say how much I have enjoyed visiting this beautiful land of Zion. I have worked in Relief Society for over thirty years and have always been thrilled to have the Magazine each month. I could never express the help it has given to me in my work. I love the beautiful new covers. When I gazed at the Relicf Society Building in Salt Lake City I just marveled at its structure. I go home tomorrow.
—Rhoda S. Tinson
Stapleford Nottinghamshire England
(Letter written from Alameda, Idaho)

Please renew my subscription. I enjoy our Magazine. Besides being small and handy-sized, it has lots of good material in it.
—Mrs. Lucille Turley
Tillamook, Oregon

My sincere congratulations to all concerned with The Relief Society Magazine, which I call "a little magnet." Its beautiful cover is so intriguing that one is obliged to peek inside, and, before realizing it, the whole book is read, filling the reader with such renewed hopes and ambitions. It is a regular spiritual rejuvenator.
—Marion Baron
Carnation, Washington