[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Johnson]
Vork ITleeting—Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson I — Safeguarding the Health of Your Family Maria Johnson For Tuesday, October 11, 1960 Objective: To help each one to become more alert to the need for applying simple, well-established principles for the prevention of disease and for safeguarding the health of the family. New Frontiers of Health Just as we are learning more of nature's laws in the exploration of outer space, so we are discovering more of nature's laws for the development and health of man. As the frontiers of health expand, these new and exciting discoveries bring new challenges. What we need to stress today, our health authorities tell us, is the application of the health knowledge we already have. Knowledge does not insure health. It is how we apply this knowledge that counts. Sanitation is important. It began with the disposal of body wastes and filth, and then with providing safe water supplies. With the invention of the microscope, man found that he was surrounded by living organisms so small they could not be seen with the naked eye. Many of them were found to be our friends; others, our cnemies and responsible for communicable or catching diseases and infections. 'The next great discovery was immunization. Programs of sanitation and immunization have made remarkable achievement since the turn of the century and make possible the control of all but a very few of our communicable diseases. If these programs were done away with, epidemics of all these diseases would soon reappear. Modern public health agencies are carrying on immunization proPage 478 grams and a_ never-ending battle against the spread of disease-producing germs. The programs have to do with safe drinking water, safe milk supplies, garbage and sewage disposal, inspection of meat and public eating places, and insect and rodent control, to name but a few. The effectiveness of these programs depends upon the understanding and co-operation of the citizens of each State and community. Failure to support these programs comes not from lack of knowledge, but lack of a feeling of one's personal responsibility. Even today, with all our knowledge, much unnecessary sickness exists. Accidents in the home are also the cause of many preventable disabilities. Most of these accidents would not happen if each home applied the safety rules such as were discussed in the safety lessons presented in Relief Society last year. Seeking Medical Advice Early Again, much serious illness could be prevented by secking medical advice early when symptoms first appear. Much suffering could be alleviated if such diseases as cancer, tuberculosis, and diabetes were brought under early treatment. 'The repair of your body, as that of your car, needs to be made when the trouble starts rather than after it has broken down. Here we need a LESSON DEPARTMENT word of caution — don't become a hypochondriac, one who has a morbid and fanciful anxiety over one's health; neither become a faddist or a fanatic. These safeguards to health: sanitation, immunization, safety measures, and early medical advice are first lines of defense. 'They are old frontiers of health that have been crossed as far as knowledge is concerned, and will never lose their importance. But application is still a problem. New Concept of Health 'Today new frontiers of health are being explored. Our concept of health has widened. It is no longer merely the absence of disease and infirmity but a high level of health with complete physical, mental, and social well-being. In other words, health with vitality, energy, emotional stability, zest, and enthusiasm for life. High on the list of health problems being studied in our research laboratories are mental illness, the need for emotional health, viruses, degenerative diseases, and senility. 'The intensive study of viruses had to wait for the invention of the electronic microscope. 'Today many discoveries pertaining to the treatment of virus diseases are encouraging. Perhaps the most challenging and exciting discoveries are being made in the field of mental illness and in the part the emotions play in the health of every individual. Here, as in other fields, it is not enough to learn of our emotional needs. We must also put into practice wholesome emotional habits. Emotional health is our safeguard against 479 mental illness and the key to optimum health. The emotions, such as worry, fear, anger, or hatred may be as injurious to the normal functioning of our vital organs as are bacteria (disease germs). Physical needs are tangible things that we can usually see and understand. Emotions, on the other hand, are feelings, not things. They are hidden and complicated, hard to recognize, and still harder to understand. We are living in a scientific age but living is more than a science; it is an art. Good mental health has been defined as a state of harmony that an individual achieves with himself and his environment which includes both other people and one's surroundings. Health rescarch has discovered that it is not, usually, because people are overworked that they break, but because the mental and emotional stresses of modern life are too much for them. 'lhe difference in stresses of life that come to each of us as individuals is not so important; it is the way we meet them that counts. Life without emotions and tensions would be dull indeed; still, for health and happiness we need to strive for emotional maturity. This has been defined as the ability to react to life situations in ways that are beneficial rather than with emotional stress. Maturity is developed through study and practice. The body and mind work together. Whatever affects the one affects the other. Doctors have found that more than half of the persons who visit their family physician for treatment of a physical ailment suffer emotional difficulties which often explain their physical symptoms. The pain or disturb- 480 emotional illness must be found. One must first recognize that he is emotionally disturbed and then try to decide why. This is not easy and many need medical advice. It helps to think of something else, play the piano, sing, scrub a floor, clean the cupboards, straighten and organize a closet; do anything that will help you forget, for the time, the thing that is disturbing you. No matter how conscientiously one may strive to protect the health of himself and family, sickness sooner or later enters the home. A member of the family has to take care of the patient. Have you not wondered why doctors and nurses do not hesitate to care for patients, especially those having communicable diseases? Just remember that it is the application of health knowledge that counts. As has been pointed out, scientific research has discovered most of the health problems connected with the spread of communicable diseases. You will find that the doctors and the nurses are making use of this knowledge. They depend chiefly upon immunization and such sanitary measures as disposal of wastes and effective hand washing. Let's consider how we can apply these two very practical sanitary measures in our homes. Ance from an Safe Disposal of Waste Material Waste material, such as dressings or cotton swabs from the sick room, and that from a cough or sneeze or nasal discharge, may carry infection and should be disposed of safely and with as little handling as possible. A paper bag makes an ideal container as it can be burned or disposed of without handling the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 soiled materials it contains. Any paper bag will do. A good one can be made from newspaper. To make a paper bag: 1. Place a folded newspaper sheet so that the fold is toward you. 2. Grasp the upper sheet of paper at the top and bring it down to the center fold. Crease to form cuff. 3. Turn the paper over. Keep the fold toward you while making the bag. 4. Fold the entire paper in thirds from the sides and crease firmly. 5- Tuck the one side under the cuff of the other side to hold the bag in shape. 6. Fold the top part of the paper down over the cuff. 7. The opening of the bag will be on the side that is down, so turn the bag over and put your hand in the opening. Shape the bag and stand it up or fasten it on the side of the bed. The Over-All Apron When caring for the sick, an over-all apron is an added protection for the family and attendant. It is a must if the disease is catching and ls desirable in any situation. Always leave the apron in the patient's room. Do not wear it for other housework or cooking. When removing the apron, first wash your hands, then untie or unfasten the gown, try to keep your hands away from the contaminated side and hang it up with the contaminated side out. Keep the clean side, the one next to your dress as clean as possible. Wash your hands again. Effective Hand Washing Among the greatest protectors against infection is Our skin. Few disease germs attack the skin, but untold numbers are always waiting for a chance to enter the body through the body openings or breaks in the skin. Our hands are the greatest offenders in carrying disease germs to our mouths, so hand washing is considered an important line of defense in protecting the LESSON DEPARTMENT patient, the family, and one caring for the sick from harmful disease organisms. Here are a few important rules to remember about our hands: 1. Keep your hands away from your face. 2. Keep peneils, or other objects out of your mouth. 3. Always wash the hands before eating. 4. Wash hands before preparing a meal or handling food. 5. Wash the hands after going to the toilet. 6. Wash the hands before and after giving nursing care. 7. Do not put the stopper in the hand basin. 8. Wash your hands under running water. G. If tap water is not available water may be poured from a pitcher. Remember to: 481 Make a good lather. Take time to rub well between fingers and around nails. Wash under running water. Repeat the soaping when necessary. Rinse well and dry well. NOTE: The presence of germs should not be the only reason used in teaching the child how and when to wash his hands. The child need not know the reason. He is taught this as a part of the family pattern; everyone does it. W y Xt fi ee \ References Red Cross Home Nursing, page 137. "TTlome Care of the Sick," U. S. Department of Ilealth, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Health Information Scries, No. 21. For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 5¢ each and $2.50 per hundred. She Su nflo Wers Eva M. Bird All faces cast in the morning, To follow the course of the sun. All faces west in the evening, To tell us that day is done.