[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Pr \metens Literature Comes of Age Lesson 17—Expanding Horizons Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 161-192) For Tuesday, October 18, 1960 Objective: To outline how new and complex relationships within the new Nation expressed themselves through its literature. ROM the times of John Smith through Jefferson, feelings of hope and fear and hatred and faith continued to accumulate with mounting acceleration and density until the crescendo became fury. Armed conflict with oppressive fellow Englishmen appeared inevitable, though never desirable. Likewise, the Nation's unpremeditated preparations for more than a century and a half found it unprepared to declare suddenly that it was sufficiently mature to emerge overnight as a_ self-justifying, self-sustaining fledgling in the world community. Rash though such headstrong action appeared to the sovereign powers as well as to tens of thousands of Loyalists who fled or abstained, actually there was no choice. Access to greatness was suddenly thrust upon the colonists. Either they acted at once to achieve their new identity or they perished. That the American colonies succeeded in winning the war is miraculous, a miracle which ever renews and brightens itself the farther we are separated from it in time. Once peace treaties were signed in 1783, the colonies had a moment to examine their separateness and to ask who they were. Even while rejoicing in their dearly won freedom, they were also somewhat disconcerted by their own audacity, yet Page 482 proud of it. By the end, in 1815, of the War of 1812, called by opponents, "Mr. Madison's War," national pride not only triumphed over other emotions, but burst forth in soaring poetry and tinseled oratory as dazzling as "the rockets' red glare' over Fort McHenry which inspired Francis Scott Key to set his inspiration to music — the music by his contemporary Englishman, John Stafford Smith. Likewise, when Samuel Francis Smith composed his "America" in 1831, the music he chose was "God Save the King." How aptly, then, do these two most "American" patriotic songs demonstrate the strong ties which bound the new Nation to Mother England: habitually, unconsciously, and with no apparent objection or incongruity, English tunes were employed to immortalize the United States' independence from her! Although during the Revolutionary War years General Washington was plagued by such problems as loyal Massachusetts volunteers who threatened to quit and go home before they would be commanded by officers from foreign New Jersey or New York, predominantly the war compelled the colonies to unite as thev met a common foe. But once thev no longer fought for survival, but only for dominance or a sense of station among themselves, LESSON DEPARTMENT they were nearly destroyed by heretofore concealed differences. Lifelong patterns of loyalty to personal and inherited values changed most reluctantly. Having publicly declared abroad that "... All political connection between them _ Ithe United States of America] and the State of Great Britain is and ought to be totally dissolved..." (The Constitution of the United States — Its Sources and Application, "The Declaration of Independence," page 269 ), this great problem became even more troublesome: "In every realm save that of politics," was asked, "'to whom, to what, shall we newborn, liberated states cleave? How can we obey our own 'independent' traditions of building? Dressing? Cooking? Marrying? Buying? Entertaining? Singing? Dancing? Feeling? Thinking? Worshiping? We have no such traditions uniquely our own." From whence were such patterns to come? From England and Europe? Many agreed. From their present and future selves? Others so hoped. During the final decades of the eighteenth century, the new politically unified colonies realized that, in every sense, they had themselves on their own hands. The eminent British critic, Sydney Smith, (1771-1845) taunted the new Nation for having made no contributions to world culture and thought. An increasing number of its own strongest voices also asked in ominously louder tones why Mr. Smith was right, why nobody read an American book, not even Americans themselves? However the War of 1812 had given Americans the feeling that they were entirely separated from England and the hope that they would develop, eventually, 483 a worthy and an independent culture. (See text, page 161.) With their hearts still longing for any news or fashions from Europe which they might display as "the latest thing" within their own local circles, at the same time Americans were outwardly and sincerely impatient to prove their equality, even superiority, in relation to the Old World, so much so that impulsively American critics often overpraised or "puffed" American scenes, deeds, and authors. And as the country doubled, then quadrupled in size with the acquisition of the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, followed by two-fifths of the country of Mexico in 1848, these and similar problems were compounded rather than simplified. By 1820, the population was close to 10,000,000. (See text, page 162.) Inward Conflicts Stated as an oversimplification, the problem of eighteenth-century America was to create itself; its nineteenth-century problem was to know itself. As it sprawled across the continent, growing in mechanical effectiveness, in agricultural, mineral, and commercial wealth to match its emergence as a physical giant, the inward conflicts likewise kept pace. When, through the decades of the century, the lines separating these opposing factions became increasingly clear, then undefined pressures in more and more areas of human influence and feeling became more evident. To name but a few, which of the following opponents finally were to dominate? What measures were to be taken to curb or extinguish the 484 losers? 1. Agricultural South vs. Industrial, commercial North; 2. Federal control vs. States' rights; 3. Hard-money Wall Street vs. The expanding West's livestock and mining; 4. Abolitionists and Free-soilers vs. The solid slave-holding South; 5. Puritanical Calvinistic strictness vs. 'Transcendental, Unitarian liberalism; 6. Yankee shrewdness and utilitarianism vs. Southern and Western friendly unconcern; 7. Poor, ignorant immigrants vs. Wealthy, educated "native stock"; 8. Tradition vs. Innovation; g. Capital vs. Labor; 10. Native "American" Indians vs. Imported Anglo Saxon "Americans'; 11. Plow vs. Branding-iron; and 12. Civilized law vs. Frontier justice. These and many other growing pains were the living issues of the century, difficult to define, even more so to resolve. As we now begin to define and study them some fifty to 150 years afterward, our greatest advantage is that time has given us some degree of objective distance; our greatest disadvantage, that some of these conflicts are still so very much alive that our present biases and self-interests may prevent us from their impartial consideration. Of necessity, our text abridges nineteenth-century American literature. Because space and time are limited, only those few authors have been included who spoke to their ages significantly, thus fairly representing it. I'o us moderns who would understand the American past, such literary leaders are indispensable. But perhaps our editors have chosen them, one might temark, not because of their contemporary significance, but because RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 they tell us what we would like to believe was dominant in America's past. Or as Joseph Conrad reminds us, "The dead can live only with the exact intensity and quality of life imparted to them by the living." Notwithstanding this possible danger, the editors appear worthy of trust since, with the possible exceptions of Thoreau's Walden, Melville's Moby Dick, and Emily Dickinson's poems, those works found in our text are those which enjoyed the greatest popularity among serious audiences in their own time. We are then ready to agree that the best means for knowing ages past is to view them through the eyes and words of their acknowledged spokesmen; the best way to judge a people is through its leaders. Other approaches to historical truth concern themselves with statistics and graphs; the concern of literature is to enter into the feelings, hearts, minds, and souls of individuals via the great and living words from their leaders which recreate, ln artistic form, the texture of the times. Classic Period of American Literature The nineteenth century is, with justice, referred to as the classic period of American literature. During this period its literature came of age, just as did the life of the Nation which it mirrored with depth and power. Further, we should recognize in serious literature the attempt to catch permanently the reality of its time. 'Thus, to choose only timeless reality amid the confusion of the present was the constant concern of these writers. LESSON DEPARTMENT Reality, however, has many faces; always to different contemporary authors it varies widely. Nevertheless, three schools or patterns of reality seem to dominate the preCivil War period, often heavily intermixed in its literature even within one man's own writings. It is to a consideration of these patterns of reality and belief that we now turn. 1. Security, the pattern of the past and the status quo. Writers in this group are often nostalgic Romantics. 'They seem to find somber delight in recalling the past, or exotic places, or even dream-worlds wraithed by clouds of mystery and sometimes horror, these moods often merely hinted at amid surroundings of decaying mansions or ancient castles which conceal ghosts, elves, or visionary spirits. The contemplation of death is also a favorite theme. Prominent figures in this pattern are Washington Irving, William Cullen Bryant, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and Edgar Allen Poe. A closely related strain is the love of the picturesque, either past or present. To picture in the mind's eve scenes of noble deeds and exciting adventure, the grandeur of unspoiled nature, the colorful tableaus of the everyday, simple life, either amid rustic surroundings, the harmless domesticities of village and town, or the sweet tranquilities of home and fireside — all unmarred by unsolvable conflict or harsh strife — these yielded to the nineteenthcentury American vicarious excitement or transport. Finally, they yielded him an inner warmth, peace, and a predominant sense of security in a world that is good now, but 485 which in the past might well have been better. Cooper best exemplifies pursuit-escape-suspense adventure laid in the historic past; he also feels the beautiful loneliness and vastness of untamed nature with contagious power. In addition to James Fenimore Cooper, Washington Irving, William Cullen Bryant, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, John Greenleaf Whittier, and James Russell Lowell best represent this strain. (These authors will be studied later. ) By and large, those who found these securities to be most real were heavily influenced both by scenes depicted from the European past and by English language patterns and literary fads. The specific words used, the cadence of phrase both in prose and poetry, and the over-all tone and intent of such writings won their American authors praise and acceptance, not only because their audiences at home really enjoyed their writings in their own right, but also because they were reassured to realize that what they found pleasurable in these local writings was also being well received by English audiences. 2. Destiny, the militant pattern of idealism and the future. From the beginning of its colonial period the country offered rich lands free for the taking, in an atmosphere free from traditional patterns of thinking, acting, believing. "Westward the course of empire takes its way, wrote Bishop Berkeley in 1720, and many, on both sides of the Atlantic, agreed with him that from the time of the Phoenicians, the Greeks, and the Romans, hope and the future have lain always 486 further west. Long before the Revolution, many Americans were well aware that theirs was the land of destiny. In 1760 the basically practical, conservative Franklin wrote to Lord Kamas in England this conviction, "I have long been of the opinion that the foundations of the future grandeur and_ stability of the British Empire he in America." Crevecoeur defined America as "the asylum of freedom, the cradle of future nations, and the refuge of distressed Europeans," an attitude which dominated American hearts and hopes both before and after the Revolution, strongly perpetuated by Jefferson. Latter-day Saints know that the Government of the United States was one of destiny, a Government under which the gospel couid be restored. The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in December 1833:... It is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (D & C 101:79-80). Here, for this newborn race called "Americans," free trade and freedom from the grinding dominance of governmental and religious institutions finally made possible the rebirth of man in this veritable Garden of Eden. Here man's essential goodness, his ability to achieve the promised life both within himself and in relation to group forces, was limited only by his own dreams. Out of this newly formed combination of all peoples, virtues, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 freedoms which is the United States of America came a noble creation of both God and man: a true American. Representative of his high vision of America's future are the words of William Gilpin, participant in the Mexican War, first Governor of Colorado, and dedicated promoter of the transcontinental railway and the Mississippi Valley, the great heartland of the Nation. The following was written in 1846: The untransacted destiny of the American people is to subdue the continent — to rush over this vast field to the Pacific Ocean — to animate the many hundred millions of its people, and to cheer them upward — to agitate these herculean masses — to establish a dynamic new order in human affairs — to regenerate superannuated nations — to stir up the sleep of a hundred centuries — to teach old nations a new civilization — to confirm the destiny of the human race — to carry the career of mankind to its culminating point — to cause a stagnant people to be reborn — to perfect science — to emblazon history with the conquest of peace — to shed a new and resplendent glory upon mankind — to unite all the world in one social family — to absolve the curse that weighs down humanity, and to shed blessings round the world (Smith, Henry Nash: Virgin Land). While Cooper was driven by a strong sense of America's destiny, basically he felt that her chance had been lost. But his was a minor voice, soon forgotten amid such booming affirmations as Mr. Gilpin's. Those in literature who most vigorously proclaimed this pattern of belief were Bryant, the editor; Whittier, the Abolitionist; and those brightest torchbearers: Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, and Walt Whitman. 3. Ambiguity, the pattern of LESSON DEPARTMENT searching beneath surface appearances for values priceless to man's peace and progress, yet values neither clearly definable nor even eventually obtainable. While granting that the suffocating past must be denied, as must former deadening influences, for a few lone writers the promise of hope in America's future did not follow. Though they agreed that the prime responsibility of the representative American was to ask all questions about man's ultimate destiny, they asserted that finally he does not know cither himself fully or his place and destiny in his own world or in time. Though shades of this pattern appeared in James Fenimore Cooper, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and Wait Whitman, its major spokesmen in the pre-Civil War period were Edgar Allen Poe, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Herman Melville. I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear. (—WuitTmMan, WALT: "I Hear America Singing"') wrote Walt Whitman at mid-cen- 487 tury, as a deep, full-throated chord of sustained dominance and richness soared upward to fill the brightstarred heavens. 'Throbbing new harmonies jarred traditional ears; surging rhythms, cadenced to fit only America's unique situations, rose in waves of majesty and vastness to give voice to new complexities. No longer need America portray herself as imitative of any other or previous culture; no longer need she portray herself as predominantly awkward, self-conscious, or raw. At last, in maturing youth's full vigor, her literature imaged a complex Nation but recently come of age. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is an over-all view of conditions within a Nation helpful as an introduction to a study of its literature? Discuss. 2. Do contemporary writers vary widely in their characterizations of the age in which they live? If so, is it possible to discover, in their writings, trends which are dominant in that particular period? Discuss. 3. Is it natural for new conflicts to arise and increase in number as a nation expands in size and population? Discuss.