[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: TENTH WARD ANNIVERSARY. | Author: Brother Joseph Keddington; and the chil-]

TENTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	Minutes of the 20th anniversary of the
10th ward Primary Association, held May
15, 1899.
	Superintendent B. Howarth presided.
Meeting opened by singing, “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior.” Prayer was offered
by Brother Joseph Keddington; and the chil-
dren continued by singing, “God Will
Bless the Pure In Heart.” Minutes of the
last annual were read and approved.
	The following program was rendered:
The Primary address, by Rasmus Borg-
quist. Organ, solo by Mamie Russell.
Recitation by fifteen little boys, about the
First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles.
Story about the “Liahona, or the Miracu-
lous Brass Ball,” Ethel Symons. Dia-
logue, “Which Would You Rather Be?”
by six little girls from the Kindergarten
class. Song by Celia Harrison, Alice
Keddington, Arzella Symons and Flora
Meyerhoffer, “Island of Dreams.” Brief
sketch of the Primary Association, by
Myrtle Rackham. Song, “Forbid Them
Not,” by the children. Recitation by
Nellie Howarth. Song, “Busy Little
Blacksmith,” by the Kindergarten class.
Story about “Honesty,” by Hattie Woods.
	President Cobb then spoke to the Pri-
mary, saying she was pleased with the pro-
gram and could almost prophecy of the
future in the 10th ward. She said that the
little boys and girls would grow up to be
presidents and active members of the differ-
ent associations of the ward and Church.
Said this was our 20th anniversary, and
she had been engaged in the Primary work
for eighteen years. The officers and teach-
ers working with the children always had
a good spirit, for they were working with
pure little children. She was proud of our
meeting and of our attendance, which is
the largest in this Stake of Zion. Was
pleased to see so many parents present, as
it gives encouragement to the teachers.
Asked the Lord to bless us in the future as
he had in the past.
	The Articles of Faith were repeated by
Celia Harrison.
	Sister Lydia Ann Wells was highly
gratified with our Primary. She had visit-
ed many associations and did not know of
any better, and few that were as good as
ours. Said there was much expected of
the children, and felt to rejoice and ask the
Lord to bless us year by year in all things.
	Sister Mary L. Morris told the children
the story of King Ahab.
	Bishop Adam Spiers thought the chil-
dren had been kept here some time and
were tired, and did not want to detain
them, although he could speak for some
time. Said it did not seem twenty years
since the organization of our Primary, and
those who had been in the Primary a few
years ago were now grown and going to


other associations, and most of them were
still faithful Latter-day Saints. It
was a grand work, and required a constant
labor, care and patience on the part of the
officers. We have been improving from
the day the association was organized, and
felt to thank and ask the Lord to bless Sis-
ter Howarth and her assistants and aids for
their labors.
	Sister Julia C. Howe, one of the Stake
aids, said this was an exceptionally good
Primary, and we did our president and aids
credit. Hoped our ambitions might be led
to do that which is right and the guardian
angel might be our constant companion,
that we would be faithful in attending to
our prayers, paying our tithing and re-
sponding to all that is required of us; and
as you grow up remember the
truths received in Primary.
	Meeting closed by singing, “Closing
Hymn.” Benediction was pronounced by
Brother C. W. Symons.
	After the meeting was over President
Howarth requested the people to stay, and
refreshments were served to about 350
parents and children.
				Eva Symons, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing in the office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Saturday evening, April 29, 1899.
	Opening prayer by Dr. Romania B.
Pratt, after which the secretary called the
roll, responses being given by quotations
from Mrs. Heman’s poems. The corres-
ponding secretary then read two communi-
cations, one from Mrs. Randall of Ogden,
the other from the U. F. W. C. asking
our club to take the initiative step
in calling together the representatives of
the Salt Lake clubs to pursue some line of
educational work which will benefit the
schools of our city. A motion was made
by Mrs. Wells and seconded by Mrs. Freeze
that a special meeting for this purpose be
called, the EXPONENT office being the
place, and the time, Thursday, May 11,
3 p. m. Carried.
	Mrs. Clark then read an interesting
poem, followed by a well prepared talk on
the scenery in southern Utah. “Indian
Customs” by Mrs. M. A. Freeze. Dr. R. B.
Pratt read Mrs. Rhodes’ paper on “The
Cliff Dwellers,” dainty refreshments were
served and a pleasant social hour enjoyed
by all present. The meeting then ad-
journed.
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec. 
		SPECIAL MEETING.
	Pursuant to a call from the U. W. P. C.
the representatives of the different clubs
met in the EXPONENT office, Thursday,
May 11. The object of the meeting was
to decide upon some line of educational
work in the clubs that would benefit the
schools of our city. Mrs Lydia D. Alder
presided, Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller was
secretary.
	Miss Adella Snow for the Reviewers said
they would leave it to the discretion of the
educational committee. They were willing
to co-operate with other clubs, especially
interested in kindergarten work and sanita-
tion.
	Mrs. Windsor, of the Woman’s Club,
stated that her club contemplated starting
another free kindergarten, to be under the
care and supervision of members of club.
[Column 2]
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, of the Press Club,
reported that the club was willing to do
whatever seemed best. Pictures might be
given to brighten and beautify the school
rooms, but in her opinion the sanitary con-
ditions were most necessary.
	Mrs. Sarah Stewart, representing the
Author’s Club, said all the members of the
club were deeply interested in kindergar-
ten work, but lack of time prevents them
from taking many active steps.
	Mrs. R. G. McNeice, of the W. C. T. U.,
desired that the work assigned to her club
be the distribution of temperance literature
in the schools. A motion was made and
carried that her club be instructed to under-
take this noble work.
	Mrs. J. C. E. King, of the Ladies’ Liter-
ary Club, stated that their work in the edu-
cational was chiefly in the kindergarten
line.
	The other representatives, of the Cleofan
and Reaper's, all agreed that kindergarten
work and sanitation should be the first
steps to be considered. Each club agreed
to take in charge one or two schools of the
city, and investigate so as to be able to re-
port at the fall meeting. The meeting then
adjourned sine die.
				AIMEE C. SCHILLER.


