Long May It Wave". Vesta P. Crawford Your flag, and my flag! And oh, how much it holds— Your land and my land Secure wails tts folds. Of the United States was raised at Cambridge, Massachusetts, by George Washington. On June 14, 1777, Congress enacted a resolution "... That the flag of the United States be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white, that the union be thirteen stars, white, in a blue field, representing a new constellation." In 1818, Congress enacted a resolution "that the thirteen stripes, denoting the thirteen original colonies, be retained, and that a star be added to the blue canton for each state after its admission to the Union." The flag of the United States has seen the growth of America, a lib- _ erty-loving people spreading out into a spacious continent and claiming 'the land for the Stars and Stripes; a people struggling to make democracy function in a world where many people no longer recognize the power of the two words that made our country—liberty and union. - President Wilson once said that our flag has no other meaning than that which we, as citizens, give to it. We create the luster of the stripes, and we maintain the purity of the stars in the field of blue. "This flag," said the great PresiQO: January 2, 1776, the first flag dent, "under which we serve, is the.? Emblem of our unity, our power, our thought, and purpose as a nation. Page 450 It has no other character than that which we give it from generation to generation. 'The choices are ours. It floats in majestic silence above the hosts that execute those choices.... And yet, though silent, it speaks to us—speaks to us of the past, of the men and women who went before us, and of the records they wrote upon it." When we see the Stars and Stripes flung out in glory above the dome of the nation's capitol, above a state capitol, or waving aloft on the liberty pole of some small village, we see not only the patterned stars and the alternating stripes, but we see America, the nation. We see its past, its present, and the future ages. We see the land and the people. We see action and ideals, sacrifice and service. We see a banner beckoning to a world "that walks in darkness." The colors of our national emblem are sky-born. "The stars upon it," says Henry Ward Beecher, "are like the bright morning stars of God, and the stripes upon it are beams of morning light.... And whereever this flag comes and men behold it, they see in its sacred emblazonry no embattled castles or insignia of imperial authority; they see the symbols of light. It is the banner of dawn." "LONG MAY IT WAVE" The banner of dawn! Who of its children can look upon the flag without seeing the dawn and the spreading of its radiance. There is in the flag the patriotism of the voice of Patrick Henry, the sacrifice of Washington at Valley Forge. There is the sorrow and the hope in the face of Abraham Lincoln. The flag bears an imagery of sights and tones, pictures and "sound effects," in the colorful panorama of national growth. There is a memory of the sound of waters moved by the paddle of oars as exploring boats traverse the long rivers of America, as explorers follow the waterways to find the sources of the streams. There is the sound of the moccasin tread of the frontiersman as he threads his way deeply into primeval forests further to the West. And there is the sound that can never die: the slow and _ patient tumble of the covered wagons in the migration westward; the rumble and rattle, the rhythmic plodding, the sound of the tide of empire going forward under a pillar of dust. There is the sound of an axe chopping the forest trees, clearing the land. There is the jingle of harness as a plow is guided along the rows of dark soil. The flag stands for that spaciousness of land, that spacious freedom of the heart, which comes from a vast expanse of country. "A thoughtful mind, when it sees a nation's flag, sees not the flag, but the nation itself." NOW America. Stand at dusk on the heights above the Golden Gate and watch the sea mist disap- 451 pearing into the infinity of ocean. Then turn your face eastward and think of America. Stand at dawn on some high peak of the great "Rockies" or the towering Sierras. See the rose-tinted light of morning crowding out the shadows from deep canyons, shedding brightness on the far peaks, painting with splendor the looping of serried ranges that seem to have no end. Say to yourself— "This is America!" Walk in the silence of the desert, noting the shadow of rocks in a thirsty land, the stalwart courage of the Joshua tree, the white bloom of the Yucca whose nourishment is drawn from the dark earth. Walk further and see that rim of iron that long ago fell from the wheel of a traveler's wagon. See the forgotten embers of a campfire. Know that this, too, is America. Who can see the golden fields of late summer, the harvest of the wheat, without knowing in his heart that truly the land is precious and made for our dominion. God has freely given us the soil and the sunlight, the ever-returning seasons, and our hands and minds as tools to | fashion an earthly paradise. He has given us America and the flag. Look ye all—there standeth the pillar of our folk: Erect, it is the will and courage of our fathers, White, for the stalwart innocence of their purpose, Upnght, in their reaching to the heart of heaven. "The flag," says Charles. W. Stewart, eminent authority on the history of our national banner, "may trace its ancestry back to Mount Sinai, whence the Lord gave to 452 Moses the Ten Commandments and the book of the law, which testify of God's will and man's duty, and were deposited in the Ark of the Covenant within the 'Tabernacle, whose curtains were blue, purple, scarlet, and fine-twined linen. Before the ark stood the table of shewbread, with its cloth of blue, scarlet, and white. These colors of the ancient church were taken over by the early western church for its own and given to all the nations of western Europe for their flags. When the United States chose their flag, it was of the colors of old, but new in arrangement and design, and they called it "The Stars and Stripes." Our national standard is emblematic of that particular plan of life which has been slowly evolved from the hearts and hands of people of many races who have brought from their fatherlands the best thoughts of the Old World and mingled them with the ideals of the New World. BVERY day America still must prove that neither race nor color nor ancestry are greater than union, or more to be prized than liberty. Every day we, as a people, must prove the higher loyalty of hearts and hands united—the doctrine that since we are all God's children, there can be no just barrier between us. There should be no armed conflict in the parliament of the world. The flag stands for liberty, not license; for dignity and law and order. Truly it stands for free speech, but not for speech so free that our great nation may be reviled with bitter words. Truly the flag stands for freedom, but not for the freedom which would forget that people are not individuals alone, but are a part of their communities. As citizens, we select our law makers and those who shall administer the laws. As Americans, we may recall from office those who have violated their trust. But if we truly love the flag and the institutions for which it stands, we must in word and deed support those who have been chosen by the voice of the people. What tower, anywhere, can stand in strength with a storm of contention and criticism tearing at _its foundations. This is a time for us to realize that leadership is a solemn responsibility. 'The way is often clouded, and the steering of the ship is often difficult beyond our realization. If we are to fulfill the prophecy and build a promised land that glows as an example to all the world, each one of us, individually a flag maker, must see that we add only light and splendor to the banner of our country. We should give evidence of this by showing kindness to. All people everywhere, by living in harmony with law and order, by speaking with dignity and devotion. Then, we may fittingly be called Americans. "The Stars and Stripes voice the spirit of America calling to a nation of indomitable courage and infinite possibilities to live the tenets of Christianity, to teach the gospel of work and usefulness, to advance education, to demand purity of thought and action in public life, and to protect the liberties of free government.... This is the call of the flag of the Union."