Preserving Our Homes In Wartime Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School No. III war should not blind us to the fact that we are fighting for a better world for our children to live in. We have pledged our all-out effort to preserve freedom to live as a democratic people. This ideal includes freedom to establish homes and to live in peace in the family circle with a minimum of interference from without. We say we are fighting for a future better world for our children, but in our desperation we may fail to make the present world as good for them as it could be. Children may be overlooked in the great task of winning the war. - Totalitarian states put loyalty to the state ahead of family loyalty. Motherhood becomes a function of the state like any other productive enterprise. But for democratic peoples, the central focus of the present struggle is the preservation of our homes and a fine heritage for our children. Nothing arouses our fighting spirit more than to visualize the possible desecration of our homes and suffering of our children. Family harmony is more important in maintaining sane attitudes in time of stress than almost any other factor. Morale, or sound mental health, is intimately associated with a wholesome emotional climate in the home. This has been demonstrated clearly in peace time, and it is doubly significant today. Studies O'": desperate effort to win this of delinquency in children have shown repeatedly that no other condition is more important as a contributing factor than unpleasant emotional relationships in the home. Broken homes, homes wherein parents have been separated, the psychologically broken home wherein the parents may still live under the same roof but are in constant conflict and who create an atmosphere of discord and tension, are the soil in which most of our children's behavior difficulties germinate. Likewise, on the adult level, maladjustments in one's vocation, personal failure, crime, and even nervous breakdowns often occur in individuals who live in an unpleasant or disrupted home atmosphere. Happily married people have been found generally to come from homes where the parents were happy together. One of the worst evils of war is that regulated family life becomes progressively more difficult as the war persists and intensifies. 'The enemy realizes what a vulnerable spot the home is in maintaining morale. He deliberately devastates civilian residential districts in an effort to break up the stabilizing influence of the family. He hopes that the broken morale of the broken family will infect defense workers and troops and thereby create a defeatist attitude. We have long known that an unpleasant atmosphere at home affects Page 453 454 morale more seriously than does anything else. One of our first rules for maintaining morale, then, should be to call a truce in all family differences. If for no other reason, we should now unite our forces because we have a common enemy. Surely - with deadly foes working and praying night and day for our destruction, we have no spare energy to fight each other in the home. Family squabbles in a very real way undermine our efficiency in such a manner that we are less prepared to meet the severe energy demands and strains of war. We should bury the family hatchet for the duration— and let us hope that during the war we forget where we buried it. HERE are many new conditions which accompany war and threaten family life. A first condition, and one that will become considerably more common, is the withdrawal from home of the father, or sons, for military or defense duty. Economic problems may follow, and certainly the reassuring influence of men in the home will be missed. These changes in the composition of the family may necessitate changing residence with the attendant strain of new adjustments. 'There may also arise problems of moral standards of parents thus separated, particularly on the part of men away from home. Another important change wilich may threaten the status quo of the family is the regimenting of women into arms plants and civilian defense. The novelty of these new assignments will attract many mothers who do not in reality need to leave their homes in order to maintain them financially, With defense work and high pay will come a new independence of women and a setting up of a higher standard of living than was possible heretofore. In many cases, women will be paid more than their husbands have been paid, and as a consequence there: may be a shifting to or sharing by fathers of motherly functions. This trend of women to leave the home is certain to create many problems of domestic adjustment and child management. Divorce may increase, and also juvenile delinquency. Should the war in America reach a more critical stage, not an impossibility in coastal and defense areas, the mass evacuation of children and women may be necessary. Evacuation is the most drastic kind of family dislocation. 'The sustaining etfect of the former dwelling, of the friendly neighbors, and of all the other things that give us a sense of "belonging" in the community is suddenly gone. The overburdening of facilities in the new community contributes to the difficulty of mak- — ing new adjustments. In England, psychiatrists have found that the effects of breaking up homes and evacuation are considerably more damaging to mental health of children than the terror of bombings. Juvenile delinquency increased markedly with the disruption of homes and the collapse of community services. Finally, the most common home condition threatening our mental health today is what we might call the psychologically broken home. The many new problems of today may result in the estrangement of parents, even though there is no separation. The strain and fear cre- PRESERVING OUR HOMES IN WARTIME ated by the war may warp parents' perspective and may cause disintegration in the personal relationships in the home. Prolonged stress may make parents irritable with each other and with the children. The need for being civil and encouraging to each other in the home is likely to be overshadowed by the urgency of other problems. New and widespread economic and social problems also will make their impact felt upon the family. For example, the rising cost of living and increasing scarcity of essential articles will foster the feeling of economic insecurity of families on fixed incomes. An uncooperative attitude toward Government restrictions and associated family disputes may follow. The restriction of the use of automobiles through rationing of new cars, tires, and perhaps gasoline is producing a tremendous problem of adjustment. Our personal and business lives have been organized with such dependence upon the automobile that it is difficult to realize how completely we may be required to reconstruct our lives on this new pattern. The "pinch" will be particularly severe on young people. We are confronted with the acute problem of finding substitute activities for them. We can hardly return to the horse-and-buggy days when there are none! Many of our communities will soon be strained by the great influx of people of all types and creeds from many parts of the land. Our schools may be crowded and new influences brought into our communities, and new types of recreation may present difficult problems with our young 455 people. On the other hand, many of our communities may be drained of their most able leaders and public servants, who will be called elsewhere for military service or defense work. All civil functions are likely to suffer from the tremendous pressure of war work. All of this, of course, presents a greater challenge than usual to the American home. The need for intelligent parental guidance and wholesome _parentchild relationships is obviously of greatest importance today. Parents must more than ever see through the child's eyes if they are to lead the way wisely through these troubled times. HAT, then, can we do in the family to meet the crisis of today? First, courage is contagious. The home should be the fountain of hope, faith, and courage necessary to see this war through to a successful conclusion. Parents should support one another through reassuring conversation and sympathetic under- 'standing of one another's fears and anxieties. But this reassurance should be realistic. The truest optimism is not blind to the ugly truth, but is based on the "long view" which sees ultimate triumph in spite of painful appearances. This kind of faith is founded on an intelligent weighing of all the facts in the case. Winston Churchill's is an excellent example of healthy optimism. He never underestimates the disappointments and losses, but he does not let untoward incidents shake his faith in the ultimate outcome of the war. In this connection, we should employ the family council plan. Many 456 of the disturbing factors in the home are repressed grievances, fears, or frustrations. Out in the family council clarifies our thinking and frequently helps to desensitize our emotional reactions to our problems. The practice of family prayer often serves the same purpose. A second aim we can set for ourselves is to radiate intelligent faith to those away from home—a son in the service, a father away at defense work, or a sister On a mission or at school. Keep the lines of communication open. 'Try to substitute in every possible way for the sustaining influence of the home. Write letters often, using humor; express often admiration for and confidence in those absent and what they are doing; sincerely, but cheerfully, express love and devotion. A third prescription for today's home folk is to sublimate one's emotions through working at tasks that may assist those away. Engage in some activity that makes you feel you are working for the same cause they are. England's experience teaches us that family war work projects are-especially valuable. A family organization may be a closely knit unit of considerable effectiveness Often talking them | in certain war tasks and in civilian defense. Fourth, the communal spirit of the family in time of trouble is ot great value. England's air raids were endured better when parents were not separated in air raid shelters. Neighbors received much support from each other through sharing common deprivations and SOITOWS. Fifth, remember that war should not do away with play. In fact, recreation is even more necessary in time of stress than any other time. The home will likely resume much of its former prominence as a social center. New kinds of recreation must be found, and the home can contribute much along this line. And, finally, the art of helpfulness is an ancient virtue which can now be re-examined in a new setting. Strange how calamities turn our hearts to virtues that we should have always practiced! 'There is no more effective way of lifting oneself to a better frame of mind than to try to help others to do so. The home affords innumerable opportunities to help oneself through helping others. (The problems of children have been only briefly mentioned here.. The next article will treat more fully their problems in wartime. ) FREeuEETS for Testaments by servicemen to chaplains and clergymen at USO centers have increased nearly 50 percent in the past few months. The American Bible Society reported that its daily issuance is now 9,000, or 4,000 more than in the early spring. The clergy is requested to distribute these books only on request. Both chaplains and local ministers continue to send in so many orders and reorders that, according to the Bible Society, the presses are working overtime, and books are being shipped the day they are bound. An increase of nearly three-quarters of a million volumes of scripture in one year is reported by the Society, accredited largely to the demands of the servicemen. (From United Service Organizations, Inc.)