The Lure Of Melody
Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen Relief Society General Board Member
All we have willed or hoped or dreamed of good shall exist; Not its semblance, but itself; no beauty, nor good, nor power Whose voice has gone forth, but each survives for the melodist When eternity affirms the conception of an hour. The high that proved too high, the heroic for earth too hard, The passion that left the ground to lose itself in the sky, Are music sent up to God by the lover and the bard; Enough that he heard it once: we shall hear it by and by. ?From Rabbi Ben Ezra, by Robert Browning.
THE word "melody" is of itself so velvety-soft in sound that one can easily see why it was chosen as one of the hundred most beautiful and euphonious words in the English language. Poets have freely used this word to paint their loveliest word pictures.
Melody is defined as follows: "A succession of single tones, having the relationship of a given mode or key and of a rhythmical structure. Also, a symmetrical whole so formed; an air or tune."?Webster.
"Melody is an agreeable succession of single sounds, in conformity with the laws of rhythm and tonality."?Louis C. Elson.
We might simply say that melody is any series of single tones expressing a complete musical thought. It may consist of two or more phrases. The following songs are examples of this: "Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes"; "Praise to the Man"; "Blue Bells of Scotland." These are analogous to asking a question and receiving an answer.
There are three types of melody?spontaneous, synthetic, and analytic. A spontaneous melody is one that is conceived and written entirely as if it were a product of inspiration rather than one of effort, work, or creation. Schubert's "Serenade," and "Hark! Hark! The Lark!" are examples of spontaneous melody, as is also Mozart's "Lullaby."
A synthetic melody is one which is evolved and created from the nucleus of a small musical idea, a rhythmic pattern, or a melodic figure. (A rhythmic pattern or a melodic figure is any small group of notes by which a composition is identified.) It may consist of two, three, or more tones. Examples of this type of development are found in Haydn's "Surprise Symphony," Brahm's "Lullaby," "Sweet and Low," "Flag of the Free," and "Jesus, Once of Humble Birth."
An analytic melody is one in which the original melody is divided or subdivided into fragmentary units and reconnected with other thematic material. This has been done by most of the masters of composition, especially in their larger works. Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony" (First Movement) is a striking example of this procedure, as is also Mendelssohn's "Wedding March," pages 11 and 12 in the Kalmus Miniature Orchestra Score. The song "Monotone" by Cornelius is an example of a melody written on a single repeated tone.
THERE are various concepts as to where and when melody first came into existence. The theological version is found in Job 38:7: "When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?"
The scientific version is that, as soon as speech and rhythm proved inadequate to express the inner self, men began to refine their means of address by lengthening the vowel sounds. This was specifically for the purpose of attracting the opposite sex with more individual appeal. It is thought that the songs of birds or other sounds in nature played an important part in giving primitive man his first pattern for imitation.
As civilization grew in refinement and culture, naturally these intonations and utterances became more pleasing to the ear. Thus began the growth of melody. Gradually the common folk found that they could express their feelings and moods more completely and effectively through melody than through ordinary speech and gesticulation. Especially was this true when words were used with the melody. They then discovered that they could more fully express their common interests and experiences through this medium than through any other. This was the beginning of Folk-song, the song of the people. The following songs are of this type: "Old Folks at Home," "Old Black Joe," "Massa's in the Cold, Cold Ground," "Long, Long Ago," "Comin' Thro' the Rye," "Loch Lomond," "Annie Laurie," "The Last Rose of Summer," et cetera. The Folk-song may have many verses, but all are sung to the same melody.
As time went on and the individual singer began to assert himself, there was felt the need of another kind of song, one with more variety of melody, of contrast, and more delicacy. This led to the creation of the Art-song, the song of the artist. The following are examples of the Art-song: "None But the Lonely Heart," Tschaikowsky; "The Wanderer," "Ave Maria," and "The 23rd Psalm," by Schubert; "My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice," Saint-Saens; "Elegy," Massenet; Chopin's "Nocturnes"; and all such numbers that require real artistic performance. The poem which is used for the Art-song consists of few verses and embodies more of the poetic and emotional element with less of the narrative.
MELODIES may induce particular moods. Some of these are faith, love, fear, reverence, sadness, joy, patriotism, et cetera. Because of this fact, choice of melody varies with people. Some persons are attracted to a Folk-song while others prefer the Art-song. This choice of melody is naturally predetermined by innate gift and by training and experience. This means that one will appreciate and enjoy a melody in proportion as he can comprehend its significance and value. Thus we can say, with the philosopher, that to gain the most from a melody one must "Light well the fagots ye have brought."
A melody, to be classed as good, must have symmetry, balance, unity, and variety throughout. There must be a total absence of anything monotonous, except in melodies which for characteristic purposes have been written expressly to show monotony. There must be purposeful and regular harmony of design in the development of figural or thematic material. There must be total agreement between all phrases and periods.
In order to become more appreciative of music, it is necessary for one to be constantly hearing and studying melodies. The conductor and accompanist should carry this consciousness of melody to the point of saturation so that in their chorus work they can keep bright this "golden strand" of melody and subdue all other parts in its favor. In order to properly interpret a composition, it is necessary to learn to recognize even the fragments of the original melody as they may occur in it. The promiscuous habit of expressing dislike for any melody, whether on first hearing or not, is a very harmful one and should never be allowed to take root nor to prevail.
SINCE the scale, major or minor, complete or fragmentary, ascending or descending, is the fundamental nucleus of all melody, it is obvious that mastery of melody is predicated upon proper and complete command of the scale. One should become thoroughly familiar with the scale in all of its various phases and qualities. Facility in this direction of musical culture may be acquired by studying our hymns and noting the use of the scale elements within them and the procedure of their characteristic developments. For example, in the hymns, "For the Strength of the Hills," (fifth complete measure) and "Sweet is the Work," (first four measures) there is a complete ascending scale. In the first line of "Redeemer of Israel," the scale appears minus the two top tones. In the hymn, "Father, Thy Children to Thee Now Raise," we find in the first measure, and ending on the first note of the second measure, a complete descending scale. There is also a descending scale passage in the first line of words in the song, "When Christ Was Born in Bethlehem." The scale appears in fragmentary design in the beginning of such hymns as "Come, Come Ye Saints," "