Visiting Teachers Messages To The Home
Lesson I Scripture Reading As An Expression Of Faith (Tuesday, October 6, 1942)
THE Bible has for centuries been regarded as the word of God. The Latter-day Saints also look upon the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price as the word of God. Our range of scripture thus becomes larger than that of any other Christian people.
In various ages the Lord has enjoined upon the Saints the necessity of scripture reading and study. Jesus tells us to "search the scriptures." (John 5:39) In our own time the Lord has said, "... Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also my word which shall come forth." (Doctrine and Covenants 11:22) Clearly the word that "hath gone forth" refers to the Bible; that which "shall come forth," to the Book of Mormon.
As a guide for living, the scriptures are unsurpassed. They are intimate, personal, and they touch the innermost life as well as our daily relationships and our attitudes toward God. They also form the basis of the civil and religious laws governing groups. The "Decalogue" is the foundation of secular government in most civilized countries. "The things which thou hast received in my scriptures," the Lord has told us, constitute "my law to govern the Church."
The power of the scriptures is shown by the influence they have had in molding the lives of men of all nations in all ages. The change which Christ's life and teachings work in people's thoughts and acts is a continuing miracle. Christ spoke to mankind in the language of love, which is the language of sacrifice. "In suffering for the world [He] adopted the only means of reaching the heart. The story of His life, His teachings, His sufferings, and His death has been translated into every language, and everywhere it has reached the heart."
In these times there is a special need for a sure guide to living, and this we can find in the scriptures. To be a good Latter-day Saint requires, however, not only prayer and meditation, but also study. "The Kingdom of God is like a treasure buried in a field, to be found by him who seeks it diligently."
It is not enough merely to know the scriptures; their teachings must be applied in our lives. Ideals and information are of little or no use unless we express them in our personal behavior and human relations. Some people know the scriptures only in a vague, indefinite way, depending on what they hear in religious gatherings. That is not enough. One must read and discover for himself the truths which they contain.
The custom of scripture reading in the family should be revived among us. Time can be found to do this if we have the will to do so and the faith that in the scriptures we shall find the way to the abundant life.
Discussion
1. Suggest ways of systematic, personal study of the scriptures.
2. Which would be more valuable to the family, individual or group reading of the scriptures?
3. Suggest ways of getting young people interested in a study of the scriptures.
Work-and-Business
NO lesson is published for the work-and-business department in this issue of the Magazine, as it is the plan of the General Board to make the subject matter for the course "New-Fashioned Thrift" as current as possible. The first lesson, "Peace vs. Wartime Habits," to be presented in the wards October 13, 1942, will appear in the August issue of the Magazine.