Social Science
What America Means
Lesson I America, The Land Of Promise (Tuesday, October 27, 1942)
(Class leaders are warned to present the lesson and direct class discussion along the broad basic principles upon which the Government was founded. Partisan issues should be avoided.)
"... Look unto the rock whence ye are hewn." (Isaiah 51:1.)
"The story of the colonization of America is a fitting prologue to the telling of its purpose. Both natures of man invited him to the new world. The quest for gold was one. Many early attempts at colonization owe their beginning to the incentive of wealth. But the better nature of man summoned him to America in search of treasures richer than gold: his quest was for freedom, liberty, and equality of rights. Then the common people sought a haven in America because of religious persecution. Left alone to the task of clearing the wilderness, the colonists succeeded, without the aid of the parent government, and gardens and fields replaced the wilderness."?Snyder, America's Purpose.
AMERICA, throughout the centuries, was unknown to the people of Europe. It was a virgin land. Great forests covered the country from Maine to Florida and westward to the prairies beyond the Mississippi River. There were the buffalo, the deer, the bear, the moose, and elk, as well as the smaller animals. The timber wolf prowled through the forests, and the only inhabitants were the Indians. There were minerals?gold, copper, silver, coal, and every other precious metal known to man. The rivers were big enough to carry ships, and little did the early settlers dream of the great power locked up in the mountain streams. It was a "Land of Promise," and the early pioneers could well quote the words of Moses:
For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills; a land of wheat, and barley, and vines, and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of oil olive, and honey; a land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass. When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land He hath given thee. (Deuteronomy 8:7-11.)
In tracing the history of our forefathers back to Europe, we find that their roots lie deep in the past of European nations from which came the multitude of immigrants, who with their descendants have peopled the United States. Many of our institutions, as our language, came to us from England, and "we must take account," says James Truslow Adams, "of influences from the many ancestral lands whence our people descended, but as generally understood and accepted by us, our history begins with the first discoveries and settlements along our coasts, little more than four centuries ago."
While the Spanish and French came to the shores of America in the sixteenth century, little influence did they have on the future of American civilization within the confines of the present United States. England was the first of the great nations to make permanent settlements. Puritanism was one of the forces of the age when England sent forth her colonists to these shores. The Puritans were made up of all sorts of minds, from those of the great noblemen and thinkers like Milton to the illiterate people of the soil. Great trading companies came into existence, and it was some of these companies that encouraged the colonization of the New World.
We do not wish to infer that the Puritan movement to America was exclusive of all other religious groups. Far from it! There will be people who lead these lessons who are descendants of the Quakers and other religious groups, but we emphasize the Puritan movement as an example of the qualities that Englishmen had in their national life four hundred years ago.
THE English people had a burning desire in their hearts to come to the New World where they could have their own homes and worship God as they pleased. They were not afraid to brave the unknown Atlantic in old wooden ships no larger than our ferry boats of today. They came with visions of a new life, but little realizing that their children would in future days be stirred to the loftiest thoughts and to greater religious and political ideals.
England, the three Scandinavian countries, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Holland, Russia?in fact, every European country?contributed to the settlement of America. Our English forebears took the lead, and our institutional life is almost wholly English. They all had religious and moral qualities, which gave wholesome sanction to differences of opinion. Although separated from Europe by the Atlantic Ocean?a much wider barrier in the early days of small, slow sailing vessels than now?the Eastern coast of America was within easier reach of the English, French, and Dutch than was any other lands these people could occupy. This helped in keeping in touch with the thought and culture of an old civilization.
By the time of the American Revolution, there were many religious sects settled along the Atlantic seacoast?Puritans, Quakers, Lutherans, Catholics, Baptists, members of the Church of England, Moravians, Methodists, and many others. The first settlements were English with some scattered neighbors from Holland, Germany, and France, showing that the roots of America go deep into Europe.
Throughout the ages, the English people had been developing their democratic government which rests on the will and consent of the people. In the year 1215, the Magna Carta was granted by King John, and centuries later the Petition of Right and the Bill of Rights guaranteed to the people such fundamentals as the right of trial by jury, the right to petition the King in case of grievance, freedom of speech in Parliament, and other elements of political rights which form a part of the English institutions. The Bill of Rights, particularly, was the forerunner of the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of the United States, for it granted religious freedom and the freedom of the press?books were to be printed freely without censorship.
A new age had come to England as a result of the Protestant Revolution, and the Holy Bible was printed in the English language. Among the Puritans, Quakers, Lutherans, and all the Protestant sects, the teachings of the Bible became the divine standard of right living and thinking; at the same time, they found in the sacred volume the treasures of the noblest literature unrolled before them. They and their children read the "Book of Job," the prophecies of Isaiah, and the revelations of St. John. John Fiske tells us that it was a time when no English literature existed for the common people, but this "untold wealth of Hebrew literature was implanted in the English mind as in a virgin soil." To its pages they went for daily instruction and comfort, and with its strange Semitic names they baptized their children, and from its precepts they sought to build within the hearts of their children a rule of life that would "renew a right spirit within them." The holy scriptures gave them life and the vigor of new ideals. While at times there were violent manifestations of discontent, the different sects regarded the Bible with sacredness of feeling. In twenty years, twenty thousand Englishmen fled from England to join the Pilgrim fathers, and hardly a family was without a Bible, which accented to every man that he is a child of God.
PERSECUTION of one sect by another was not uncommon. The Puritans hated the Quakers, and as for the Catholics, all the Protestant sects were opposed to them, and yet in 1649 the Catholics in Maryland passed the first religious tolerance act in our history. A great lesson for our day is given in the history of Roger Williams, the founder of Rhode Island. Among all the Puritans who came to New England, there is no more interesting figure than he. This young preacher announced the true principles of religious liberty with a clearness of insight quite remarkable for his time. He wrote a pamphlet in which he denied the right of the colonists to claim the lands of New England. He held that the soil belonged to the Indians, and that the settlers could obtain a valid title to it only by purchase. When the Quakers were persecuted in Rhode Island, he led in issuing the statement: "We have no law amongst us whereby to punish anyone for only declaring by words their minds and understandings concerning the things and ways of God as to salvation and our eternal condition.... Let us not be compelled to exercise any civil power over men's consciences."
Such was the humble beginning of the great Puritan exodus from England to America which had so much to do with the founding and peopling of the United States. The Pilgrims of the Mayflower were but the pioneers of a mighty host. There were only one hundred and two on board the Mayflower, and over half of them died the first winter. At one time the living were scarcely able to bury the dead. At first they were crowded under a single roof, and the Indians brought them corn. During the first spring and summer, twenty-six acres of land were cleared, and a plentiful harvest gathered. Governor Bradford appointed a day of Thanksgiving. Town meetings had been held and a few laws passed. The New England town government was established throughout New England, and when the towns united in 1642, the people sent from each town representatives to a general court. This was the beginning of representative or republican government in America.
THERE is a noble truth to remember about the settlement of America by the English and other European peoples. Here in name and truth the Creator was confessed. His law was authority, and His Providence was trusted. The name of the Son of Man and His teachings were honored. The day of His birth and His rising from the dead were commemorated. It seems that the settlement of America and the formation of the Republic of the United States was an event ordered of God, for the bringing of His kingdom upon the earth. A republic is the highest form of political institution, so D'Tocqueville wrote, and the highest form of republic is one made of different nationalities, brought under one government and one flag. Such a republic was unknown, and the time came for it, and this was the only land where a nation of this kind was possible. The continent had been concealed until the right men, rightly trained, could build their homes in the wilderness and hold the ground for a purpose higher than they knew.
Governor John Winthrop of the Massachusetts Bay Company wrote in 1630: "The planting of New England will be a service to the Church of great consequence to carry the Gospel into those parts of the world, to help in the coming of the fullness of the Gentiles."
Orson F. Whitney, in his Saturday Night Thoughts, speaking of the restoration of the Gospel says of America: "In no other country on earth, without special divine interposition in its behalf, would this great and marvelous work have been permitted to come forth."
The American colonies became a republic, the first of its kind in the history of the world.
Suggestions for Study
Your lessons should suggest to you many topics for study. You will naturally choose subjects according to your likes. Recently a student said: "I would rather study the history of the Quakers in America than any other subject." So it will be with you. Try to find subjects in all the lessons that interest you, and study them.
For this lesson, we suggest for outside study, the Reformation in England, and the printing of the English Bible.
Why do we say: "The English colonists brought the Bible and the name of Jesus Christ to the world?" Give all the examples you can to prove this statement.
What were some of the ideals in religion and other phases of life of your forebears? Tell about them to the class.
Your forebears brought to America beautiful folk songs and folklore of their home life. Have you preserved any of these?
What thought of this lesson has been very impressive to you?
Read in The American Citizen's Handbook, pp. 13-17.
General Presidents Of Relief Society
(For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States in lieu of social science lessons.)
Emma Hale Smith First Relief Society President (Tuesday, October 27, 1942)
At the age of twenty-one, Joseph Smith was employed in Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. He boarded with Isaac Hale and fell in love with his daughter, Emma, a graceful, dark-eyed girl of strong character. Her ancestors had had deep religious convictions; some had suffered for being Huguenots, one had been burned at the stake because he was a Protestant, and several had come to America for religious freedom. Emma, also, was to suffer for her convictions.
Her father, Isaac Hale, opposed her marriage to a youth who claimed to have visions and planned to establish a new faith. But the girl's heart was fixed on the young Prophet, even though he was a poor and persecuted stranger. Joseph's mother records that her son returned home and said to his parents: "I have concluded to get married; and if you have no objections to my uniting myself with Miss Emma Hale, she would be my choice in preference to any woman I have ever seen."
The parents were pleased and requested Joseph to bring Emma to live with them. Mother Smith wrote in her Life of the Prophet: "I set myself to work to put my house in order for the reception of my son's bride, and I felt pride and ambition in doing so..." She looked forward to the companionship of her daughter-in-law; and, indeed, the bride, married against the wishes of her own family, fitted happily and well into the home life of her new parents.
Emma, born July 10, 1804, in Harmony, was married January 18, 1827. The following September 22 was the time set by the Angel Moroni for Joseph to receive the golden plates. When he left on that secret nocturnal journey, the young wife left with him in his borrowed vehicle, and returned with him the following morning.
While awaiting the delivery of strong chest, Joseph concealed the plates in a birch log about three miles from his home. Then he went to Macedon where he was employed digging a well. Rumors spread that the valuable gold plates were in Joseph's possession. A threatening crowd, hoping to seize them, gathered near the Smith home. Joseph's mother was very anxious. "If I had a horse, I could ride to Macedon," volunteered Emma. In the pasture at that moment was a stray horse with a withe around its neck which, according to law, designated the horse as lost. It was brought to the house for Emma. In Macedon, the Prophet received an impression that all was not right. Hastily dropping his tools, he climbed from the well and walked toward the house, where he saw his wife, a graceful and expert rider, approaching on the sorry-looking nag with its hickory withe. He borrowed a horse from his employer and rode home beside his bride, to protect the plates at any cost.
Two months after the organization of the Church, April 6, 1830, the Prophet's wife was baptized. A few weeks later, Joseph received a revelation directed to Emma, his wife, which is the only revelation directed to a woman recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. (See Section 25) In this revelation, Emma Smith was addressed as an "elect lady" whom God had called. She was told to be a comfort to her husband in his afflictions. She was "to go with him at the time of his going, and be unto him a scribe," and "be ordained under his hand to expound scriptures and exhort the Church." Her time was to be given to "writing and learning much," and she was "to make a selection of sacred hymns" to be used in the Church. (Many hymns of her choosing are in our song books today.) The above revelation also contains a solemn warning to "Keep my commandments continually... And except thou do this, where I am you cannot come."
Most of his life, persecution dogged the Prophet's steps, and Emma had many trials, which she endured courageously, sometimes beside her husband and sometimes separated from him. There were changes, uncertainty, and frequent moves. The young couple had left Father Smith's home, and becoming reconciled with Emma's father, had bought the property next to his in Harmony, where the translation of the plates was continued with Emma sometimes acting as scribe. Later they went to Peter Whitmer's home in Fayette, New York, where the translation was concluded. From 1831 to 1838, they lived in Hiram and Kirtland, Ohio. In Kirtland, Emma supervised the boarding and clothing of the men building the temple, and was generous and hospitable to the Saints who were moving to their first gathering place.
The Prophet and his wife experienced bitter disappointment when their firstborn child died at birth in 1828, and again when their twin son and daughter died at birth, in 1831. However, instead of giving way to grief at this second calamity, they adopted the twin babies?a boy and a girl?of John Murdock, whose wife had died at the birth of these babies. The boy died in 1832, but the girl grew to womanhood and married. Emma Smith's kindness to her foster daughter and to the Saints, and her other fine womanly qualities have come down as a tradition in the Murdock family. Sister Smith later bore five more sons; one died, and four grew to maturity.
From Kirtland the Smiths moved to Far West, Missouri, where Emma endured bitter persecution. In 1839, when the Prophet was unjustly confined in Liberty Jail, his wife, with the other Saints, was ordered to leave the state. Carrying her two youngest children and with the oldest boy and the little girl clinging to her skirts, she crossed the frozen Mississippi River on foot.
In Nauvoo, Emma Smith established three successive homes. When a violent epidemic of ague swept the early settlement, the Prophet and his wife filled their house with the sick and cared for them personally. In order to accommodate more who were ill, they pitched a tent in the yard for the well members of their own household.
WHEN the Relief Society was organized in 1842, Emma Smith became its first president. Following parliamentary procedure, she conducted the meetings with dignity. She recommended the employment of a skilled widow as a seamstress, and encouraged prompt payment for this service. She suggested buying materials to be made into clothing for the poor. She thought a committee should visit the poor and learn their needs. Her practical, intelligent ideas helped to lay the groundwork for many Relief Society activities of today.
Four months after its organization, the Society prepared a petition asking Governor Carlin of Illinois to rescind an order to turn Joseph Smith over to his enemies in Missouri. Every member signed the petition, and Emma Smith, accompanied by Amanda Smith and Eliza R. Snow, went fifty miles to Quincy, to present it personally.
On August 31, President Smith attended Relief Society meeting and thanked the women. Two weeks before this, on August 16, trusted friends had conducted Emma to a little island to meet her husband who was eluding enemies. Joseph Smith wrote of the event: "How glorious were my feelings when I met that faithful and friendly band... When I took by the hand on that night my beloved Emma... The wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart... I contemplated for a moment the many scenes we had been called to pass through, the fatigues and the toils, the sorrows and the sufferings, and the joys and consolations, from time to time, which had strewed our paths and crowned our board.... Again she is here?undaunted, firm, and unwavering?unchangeable, affectionate Emma." Yes, there were intervals of peace, with some prosperity, periods when Emma Smith, with her erect figure and proud, dark head, stood beside her husband, graciously dispensing kindness and hospitality, and enjoying many honors. However, after 1842, clouds continued to gather, culminating in the tragic martyrdom. When the bodies of Joseph and Hyrum Smith were brought to ? the Mansion House, Emma was carried to her room, insensible. Five months later she gave birth to a son. She remained at Nauvoo and later married Major Bidamon. Before the martyrdom, Mother Smith, then a widow, had come to make her home with Joseph and Emma. Soon afterward, she became very ill. Speaking of her sickness, she wrote: "For five nights Emma never left me, but stood at my side all the night long." For several years prior to her death, Mother Smith lived with Emma. Emma Hale Smith died April 30, 1879, and was buried beside the Prophet Joseph Smith. References "Emma Hale Smith," Handbook of Relief Society, p. 109; A Centenary of Relief Society, p. 10. "Emma Smith the Prophet's Wife," , , p. 236. "Emma Smith?Church Hymns," , , p. 163. ASK FOR A FREE DEMONSTRATION DONALD G. LYMAN OTARION OF SALT LAKE. McIntyre Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me free beditiet "The Story of Otarion."' Name Address "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYSI"' OFFICE WORKERS ARE NEEDED Now! A few months of intensive training here will help you to qualify for work in Government or private offices. Ww L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Homemakers BE SURE TO USE SUGAR STAMP No. BEFORE JULY 25th (it's worthless after this date) Don't let Saturday July 25th pass without getting your 2 pounds of sugar for each member of your family... For stamp No. 5 is good for a 4-weeks' sugar supply. HAVE YOU APPLIED FOR YOUR HOME-CANNING SUGAR? If you haven't as yet applied for your home-canning sugar allotment, now is an excellent time to do that, too, while our small fruits are abundant. It's your privilege and patriotic duty to can our fruits. To get your allotment, apply at your local rationing board. When you get either your regular weekly ration or your homecanning sugar, be sure it's HOME-PRODUCED SUGAR PERFECT FOR CANNING... GROWN IN YOUR OWN STATE 'Adam fell that men might be; and men are that they might have joy." ?Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi, 2:25. Ww LARKIN MORTUARIES Ogden, Utah Los Angeles, California 466 24th St. 6003