[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: Hopeful Signs | Author: Unknown]

		HOPEFUL SIGNS.
	Though war is raging in the far East at
the present time until one is sickened by
the daily telegraphic news, yet there are
some things tending towards better condi-
tions, and those who believe in the great-
ness of the near future must take into con-
sideration, not only the terrrible devastation
being made by war and its consequences,
but the struggles of many thousands, who
are laboring and praying for the more
peaceful methods of settling all difficulties
both between nations and communities.
	The great Peace meeting held in Berlin
during the late Congress of Women from
all the civilized countries of the world,
marks an epoch in the peace movement.
This peace meeting was convened last June
when the Russian-Japanese war was at its
height. It was held in Berlin, the capital
city of the most thoroughly militarized
country in Europe, viz. Germany. Not
only was the hall filled to its utmost capac-

[Column 2]
ity, but the aisles and the corridors were
packed. Speeches were made in English,
French and German, by most eloquent
and distinguished women speakers from
these countries, besides five minute speeches
from women representing each of the coun-
tries in the International Council (with
three exceptions) amid the most inspiring
enthusiasm. This may assuredly by reck-
oned one of the hopeful signs of the
times.
	The Inter-parliamentary Congress to be
held in St. Louis in September will no
doubt create a strong, and it is ardently
hoped, lasting impression upon the subjects
of peace and arbitration, as that Congrest
is to be composed of men;—the world’s
great and learned men; celebrated for their
wisdom and knowledge; men of world-wide
reputation filling high places in their native
countries.
	The Universal Peace Congress to be
convened in Boston Mass. the first week
in October will surely be another hopeful
sign; this great gathering will be composed
of both men and women; and in the blend-
ing together of these two strong forces a
better solution of great problems is likely
to be made, than where only men discuss
grave questions alone, even though congre-
gated in the world’s great Councils. The
agitation of the sentiment of peace from
one part of the country to another and from
country to country, through peace literature,
peace discussions and peace meetings is all
educational in the best sense of the word,
tending towards that higher ideal, that
broader intelligence, and better method of
comradeship which will inculcate love in-
stead of revenge, welding a sympathetic
bond between nations and individuals they
will eventually develop plans for settling
many of the gravest questions amicably
through arbitration, and thus promote a
higher attitude in the conduct of the world’s
work than that which has prevailed when
war the “resort to arms” was the watch-
word among the greatest and most power-
ful empires of the world.
	Notwithstanding the opinion that war
is necessary largely prevailing among many
peoples, yet there are powerful agen-
cies working in the opposite direction for
loftier and holier purposes than the destruc-
tion of immortal souls. It seems most fit-
ting that women the mothers of the race
should array themselves on the side of
peace. It is a matter of rejoicing that so
much is being done this present year, and
though the results may not be apparent in
fact, yet the growth of sentiment will be
spreading and the light that has come into
the world permeating the darkness will
grow brighter and brighter, and the con-
tact of peoples one with the other through
better facilities of travel will ultimately
bring all nations to a better understanding
of correct methods, and the Golden rule ap-
plied to all the relations of life and all the
governments of the world, will help bring
about the time when there shall be no more
war nor slaying of any living thing.


[Column 1]
