LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in March)
CHILD WELFARE PHYSICAL PROBLEMS (CONTINUED) CASE STUDIES
Two physical problems of childhood that are not infrequently encountered are discussed in the case studies of the two girls Emily and Carmela. The histories, as presented in the text, give only a summary of the problems presented, and the author's comments on their significance and treatment. It undoubtedly will be of interest to those not familiar with the workings of a Behavior Clinic to have an insight into its operations and some knowledge of the procedure employed in gathering the information that the psychiatrist must have to interpret and treat the problems that the different children present.
These clinics, where children who present behavior problems are analyzed, are a recent development. They are known by various names?Habit Clinics, Behavior Clinics, Child Guidance Bureaus, Mental Hygiene Clinics, etc. The staff usually consists of at least a physician, a psychological examiner, a social worker, and a psychiatrist. The psychiatrist is the head of the clinic and the other professional workers contribute their findings to the psychiatrist, who interprets this material in connection with his study of the individual.
The child may be brought to the clinic by his parents, or he may be referred by his school teacher, by a nurse, by a physician, or by a social worker. A study is then made of the physical and mental make-up and social life of the child. The social worker perhaps makes her study first. She gathers the history of the child's development and its present environmental conditions. She visits the home, observes the neighborhood and home standards, gathers the physical history as related by the family of the heredity, the child's development, (age of walking, talking, dentition, childhood diseases, etc.), the present health and the hygienic standards of the home. She learns, too, something of the family's emotional attitude towards the child, for often abnormal childhood behavior is the result of unwholesome attitudes within the family group. The social worker, too, secures the school's report of the child's progress and conduct.
With the social worker's report before him, the physician makes a careful examination. The examination is a thorough one, and frequently physical defects, not even suspected by the family, are discovered and reveal the cause of abnormal behavior of the child.
A psychological examiner, on one or more occasions, makes
a study of the child's mental ability. He uses standard psychometric tests, which when properly given and interpreted can give an insight into the child's inherent ability, and discloses the types of performances at which he is especially weak or especially able.
The psychiatrist makes his own analysis of the child's emotional and psychic life and relates this to the findings of the other reports. The studies as they appear in the text are brief summaries of the psychiatrist's interpretation of all of the material.
A knowledge of the characteristics of the cretin type represented by Emily, is important to all parents, teachers and persons dealing with children. There are not great numbers of pure cretins, although every worker with children occasionally meets the type. If the cretin does not receive early medication, he always remains as helpless and burdensome as an infant. These helpless children are frequently placed in institutions as it is almost impossible to bear the burden of their care in a home. The recent discovery of medication, effective if given early, makes the future of the cretin much more helpful. If early and continuous treatment is applied, these sluggish and retarded individuals do attain a limited development. Because Emily received the proper medication from the time she was eight months old, she reached a state of usefulness and will perhaps even be able to make her own livelihood.
While there are not a great number of cretins?individuals whose thyroid gland fails to develop?there are many persons who are affected by either the over (hyper), or under (hypo) activity of the thyroid gland. The causes for glandular disturbance may be some hereditary factor or some chemical disturbance of the body. Some authorities contend that glandular upsets may be the result of some emotional experience or emotional strain and the upset in the glandular functioning continues after the emotional stress has been removed. The hyper-thyroid type is nervous, excitable, has a high pulse, and the energy of the body is literally burned away. The treatment applied tends to check the over activity of the gland. The hypo-thyroid individual has a low pulse, is easily fatigued, is retarded and slow mentally and physically. These individuals are given the substance of thyroid gland artificially, and normal alertness and energy frequently follows. Treatment in either case should be under the close direction of a physician.
The six year old Carmela presents a very common childhood problem. Enuresis (bedwetting) has distressed many parents and has brought much unhappiness to the victims. A keen embarrassment is felt by the afflicted child and he is often punished and ridiculed by his family and playmates. Recently a young boy refused to go on a camping trip with his playmates and later would not join a boys' club that hiked and participated in regular boy sports. While he was a bright,

likeable boy, he became more and more aloof, spending most of his time in morbid brooding by himself. It was not until the club organizer learned from his mother, who also was diffident in discussing the boy's condition, that he had never acquired control of the bladder, that the boy's behavior could be understood.
The author points out that neither punishment nor medicine is the treatment usually needed. Punishment adds to the child's humiliation and lessens his confidence to acquire correct habits. Drugs are not needed in the majority of cases, and when applied is perhaps only an incident in the successful treatment.
The control of this reflex action (reflex action is any purely spontaneous action) must first be a conscious performance. Just as in learning to walk, which also later becomes an automatic process, the higher brain centers function until it becomes an automatic action. The lower brain centers then control these automatic performances. Until the habit is fixed (or the neuron pattern established) conscious effort is needed to "condition" or control the spontaneous reflex.
Our author suggests that the child should be assisted in establishing this control early?soon after birth. If an older child presents this problem, some motive should be given him (such as a desire to be normal and strong) and confidence be implanted. The encouragement a child needs to make a conscious effort to establish correct habits can be given by a parent as well as a physician.
It is interesting to note that the author treats enuresis in a different manner when it is accompanied by thumb-sucking or nail-biting. These habits are considered as associated infantile habits or "fixations" and the conscious control of one will bring with it the control of the others. The child is, therefore, assisted in overcoming the simpler and more obvious habit, either the nail-biting or thumb-sucking, and in most cases control of enuresis accompanies the control of the other habit.
Children who are mentally defective are frequently troubled with enuresis. It is naturally more difficult for a retarded child to obtain conscious control of any action. Enuresis, alone, does not indicate retardation but if accompanied by late talking and walking, there is then a suggestion of general backwardness.
The author states that he never considers enuresis as an isolated ailment, to be treated as a single factor. It is, rather, a symptom of illness, or nervous instability, or has some psychic origin. If proper habits are not formed at the usual age, which is between eighteen months and two years, and the efforts of the parents to assist the child in establishing control do not meet with success, the child deserves the attention of a physician or psychiatrist.
Reference: The Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile, pages 24 to 32.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. What is the function of a Habit Clinic?
2. Name the usual members of the staff and what contribution each makes.
3. What is a cretin?
4. How is cretinism treated?
5. What is the difference in both type and treatment of hyper-thyroid and hypo-thyroid individuals?
6. What is enuresis and why is it a serious problem of childhood?
7. What treatment does the author suggest?
8. Why are punishment and medicine not effective treatment?