Care of the Expectant Mother Miss Charlotte Dancy, Dean of Women, Utah State Agricultural College
I congratulate you as a body of women on having taken your stand with the State of Utah and with the Federal Government in adopting and promoting the Sheppard-Towner Bill. There are few more important things that women can be engaged in, for our national health is dependent upon good obstetrics. I shall quote this morning from a book on obstetrics written by an acquaintance, a nurse who studied at Johns Hopkins when I did. Together Miss Van Blarcom and I learned to care for, bathe and dress a new-born babe. Even at that time, the author of Getting Ready to be a Mother and Obstetrical Nursing showed an interest
CARE OF THE EXPECTANT MOTHER 349
in mothers and their young babies which was to direct her life's effort into the study and care of them, an interest made keener, I am sure, by the fact that she, as a child, suffered from one of the preventable diseases of childhood, St. Vitus' Dance. Miss Van Blarcom says, "The aim of good obstetrics is to build a strong and bouyant race," and "The striking difference between obstetrics as practiced today and that of former times is that it now lays as much stress upon the future health of the mother and baby as upon their immediate safety. Happily, the present day obstetrician who assumes the care of the expectant mother, does so with confidence and optimism because of the available knowledge upon which he may draw for her benefit." These words remind us of the great debt that we owe to Pasteur who, by his work on bacteria and other micro-organisms, led the way to modern maternity practice. Though slow to develop, nevertheless all our present-day prevention of child-bed fever, milk leg, and the many other ills associated with infection at child birth, I say the prevention of these dread conditions, is based on our knowledge of bacteria. I never make an alignment such as this against bacteria without wishing that I had time to discuss with my audience the great use and benefit to mankind of many of these tiny micro-organisms. While the pathogenic bacteria which cause diseases give us so much concern, yet it is true that other strains of these same little creatures keep life upon the earth and are one of God's great blessings to mankind. In the United States in the year 1920, Dr. Dublin tells us that 20,000 mothers lost their lives at childbirth; 100,000 children were born dead, and 200,000 died in the first year of life, and most of this was preventable. Dreadful as these figures are, they are not so bad as in some of the other nations of the world. In the Philippine Islands we have a condition which is worse than that of any nation in which statistics have been taken. In Manila the peculiar condition exists that more breast-fed babies die in their first year than babies fed on the bottle. The lesson to be drawn from this strange state of affairs is the lesson of prenatal care and its great importance to the babe as well as to the mother. The subject of mothercraft logically divides itself into four periods: 1. The nine months of pregnancy: 2. The few hours of labor; 3. The few weeks of the puerperium (the restoration of the mother); 4. The nine to eleven months of lactation. Too great stress cannot be laid upon an intelligent understanding of these four periods.
Pregnancy: During the pregnancy the child is building its body from the material furnished it by the mother. Its teeth, both first and second (or permanent teeth) are being laid down in out-


line. The lime and phosphorus so essential to the bony skeleton of the child will be taken from the mother at the expense of her teeth, hair, etc., if she does not provide them in her blood stream. The mother's abdominal muscles must be kept strong and active so as to help her keep the developing uterus in the correct position and so that she may use them when bearing down is needed. A daily walk in the open air helps here. The mother's kidneys and skin must be kept in perfect condition so that her own excretions and those of the unborn child may be carried off and not remain in the body to poison both. A daily bath, plenty of water to drink, and keeping her tissues alkaline help in this. The mother's bowels, especially the lower bowel, must be kept active so that there may be no accumulation of the by-products of intestinal bacteria accumulating in the bowels and being reabsorbed to poison the mother and child. This can be avoided by developing the abdominal muscles, eating food containing roughage, such as bran, lettuce, etc., food containing nature's laxatives such as the oil of the wheat germ, the phytin of the bran, the juices of fruits, especially the raw dried prune, etc.
Labor: During labor the best care is to keep the mother quiet, free from visitors, having one nurse or friend whose business it is to cheer and attend her and see to her nourishment and what physical comforts one is able to give at such times; to keep the doctor informed of the progress of labor, and above all things to make no internal examinations. Even the doctor refrains from putting his hands to the uterus at this time, so great is the danger of introducing infection by the hand.
Puerperium: During the puerperium, the new mother must be given rest, and nourishment (almost anything which she digests well and which she knows does not cause gas and distress in her alimentary canal). She must be kept clean with a daily bath in bed, and a thorough local cleansing given only by someone who has been taught how, and she must be kept off her feet, free from fatigue and responsibility until all signs of the lochia (which is the discharge after childbirth) has ceased. This is a point which is all too often neglected and treated too lightly. I was told just recently by a young mother that most of her acquaintances among the young married women have a regular monthly flow after childbirth, during the nursing period. I can't accent too strongly that this is a sign that the uterus has not receded to its proper state of tone, and everybody in the family, husband, mother, mother-in-law, and growing children, if there be any such, should see to it that the new mother is put to bed and kept there as soon as a discharge begins after it has once stopped. If the mother is cared for in a hospital she will not be allowed to go home until the lochia has ceased and the baby's cord is off, healed, and in per-