the General Board. All day long the beautiful new silk flag, first used at our recent conference, stood against the wall, apparently, concealing something. At four o'clock the members of the Board shifted their chairs, and presently Sister Williams' husband and her aged mother, Susan Smith, wife of President George A. Smith, entered the room, followed by a goodly representation of her family. Among them was an only granddaughter, little Josephine Darger. She stepped toward the flag, pulled a white ribbon, attached to one corner, and the portrait was revealed. Walking into the adjoining room and taking up a little green basket receptacle filled with Killarney roses, she brought them in and | placed them on a little stand beneath the picture. The roses? were selected by Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans, a member of the committee. Counselor Louise Y. Robison, chairman of the committee, made her report. This was followed by a tribute from Counselor Jennie B. Knight, and from the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and from Emma A. Empey, Sarah McClellan, and Lotta Paul Baxter of the General Board. Honorable W. N. Williams, who has worked in conjunction with the committee, expressed his appreciation both for the quality of the portrait and the desire on the part of the Board that a picture of President Williams should be placed with the other presidents in the Board Room. It was a moment of real power and up-lift when the portrait came into view, revealing, as it does,-so much of dignity and womanly poise. Many who have seen the portrait feel that Lee Greene Richards, the artist, has never excelled in his portrait painting, the portrait of President Williams, What the Pioneers Ate A Letter to Dr. E. V. McCollum, Noted Nutrition Specialist, of Johns Hopkins University _ By Miss Jean Cox, State Supervisor of H ousehold Economics January 17, 1924. Dear Mr. McCollum:?While I think you realize how difficult it is to get any first hand information in pioneer food stories, [ hesitate