Goitre Dr. J. Wallace, Epidemiologist, Utah State Board of Health Formerly of Rockefeller Foundation
The subject assigned to me this morning is that of goitre, and I suppose you all know what goitre is?that it is simply an enlargement of the thyroid gland, and you know where the gland is located, in the middle line of the neck; and probably you have seen so many cases of goitre that you have thought it was of little consequence. Now, I would not be inclined at any time to magnify the meaning of goitre or its presence. I do not think it is anything that people should get into hysterics over. On the other hand, I am fully aware of the fact that it is something about which we ought to be concerned. It is not a matter that we can think of lightly and as a temporary thing, and therefore a thing to be disregarded. I know it doesn't create as great a disability as some diseases, such as hookworm, which has such a deadening and dulling effect on the intellect and mind that you can go into a school and can pretty nearly tell by looking at the children whether or not they are infected. Through this disease the people of the south have been deprived of all ambition to work and are often called lazy. Goitre is not so disabling a disease, because sometimes in a school I find the brightest boys and girls have marked goitre, but they are advanced in their studies not because they have goitre, but in spite of it. We ought to estimate the menace of goitre not according to its present disability, but according to its ultimate result, and the sad thing about it is that people are inclined to think it will disappear. In some cases it does disappear, but in others it does not disappear. I can point out to you facts which prove that goitre does not recede in a very large percentage of cases. I do not know whether any person here is inclined to regard it as a mark of beauty. There was a certain time in the history of goitre when it was regarded as a mark of beauty. In Derbyshire, England, it was called Derbyshire neck, and if you will look at the old paintings, you will find that the beauties of the day were represented as having goitre. You may all remember the picture of the beautiful Queen Louise, supposed to be the most beautiful woman in Germany, and that Queen Louise wore a kerchief about her neck. Why? With all her beauty she had a goitre which she greatly disliked and tried to hide it from the public. It is very important that we remember that among the young people, practically all cases of goitre are cases of simple goitre,
GOITRE 347
Relief Society, and women's organizations generally. We are doing this work not to frighten any one (and I don't want any woman to be frightened if she discovers that her daughter has an enlargement of the thyroid gland), but we are doing it in order to discover the facts, because it is first essential to know what conditions are in order to know how to meet the conditions. We are glad to know now that this enlargement of the thyroid gland, or goitre, is a deficiency disease, just as scurvy or rickets is a deficiency disease, or beri-beri, all due to the lack of certain vitamines or certain elements that should enter into our food and drink, and which if lacking, will cause a development of the disease. As we have already indicated, the element that is lacking in this particular case is the element of iodine. There are three periods in the life of an individual when we find the thyroid gland especially developing or especially enlarging: the period of birth, the period of adolescence, or puberty, and the period of pregnancy in women. Two of these periods, the period of birth and pregnancy come under the observation of the doctor, and it has been shown satisfactorily that where all pregnant women are given an adequate supply of iodine no goitre develops either in the women or in the children that are to be born. In some schools, we have found 53% of the children having goitre. Why did they have it? Because their mothers had a deficiency before they were born. They have not yet passed through puberty. They started life with a handicap. If women, during the first six months of pregnancy, were given an adequate supply of iodine, they themselves would be protected, and their offspring would be protected also. Then there is the period of puberty. This is a period that can be satisfactorily handled in the schools. Different methods have been adopted for the administration of iodine. In Rochester they put iodine in the water supply of the city, but this is expensive and is not necessary, since only a portion of the water is used for drinking. It has been found more economical to administer iodine in the form in which it is being administered in the state of Utah, in the form of tablets. The advantage of this is that if you give Mary Brown ten milligrams of iodine, you know that she has received ten milligrams. If you put it into the public water supply, you do not know how much Mary Brown is going to drink. If you put it into the salt supply, which is the method in use in Switzerland, you do not know how much salt she is going to use. Some people can get along with far less iodine than others because a great many people apparently have the power whereby they can reconvert the supply of iodine they have and can use it over and over again. In some people there is a defect


whereby they lose that power. They cannot reconvert it and that is why some of them develop goitre. Some people seem to be unable to absorb iodine. That is why in non-goitrous areas you will find, occasionally, a person with goitre. In Utah there is a great deficiency of iodine in our water. If you analyze water here and compare it with water toward the mouth of the Mississippi or on the Atlantic coast, it will be found that the water in the latter places has anywhere from one hundred to one thousand times as much iodine as the water supply of Utah. You will see therefore, that in giving iodine supply to children, you are not giving them a drug, but simply something that they are being deprived of. You add salt to your food, and you do not add any iodine, and it is just as essential that you should add iodine as that you should add salt. Dr. Marine said the other day that if all pregnant women would take an ample supply of iodine, and if girls between 10 and 17 would do likewise, 90% of the goitre cases could be prevented. You have a great opportunity to eradicate goitre in Utah, because the State Board of Health has taken action whereby it is made possible for you to obtain this preventive treatment at a nominal cost, in fact, it is provided for you at less than the wholesale rate. It is obtained at these reduced rates for the schools because nobody is making any profit on it, and the manufacturer is co-operating with the health officials. Let us bear in mind always that there are two types of goitre in which we do not administer iodine: to those who have the adenoma type (new growth) or the toxic (poisonous) type. People with these types of goitre should consult a physician and adopt such measures as are prescribed by him.