[Vol7 | July 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL  Motto   Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29. Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City. Utah VoL VII July, 1920 No. 7 Discipline Our Thoughts Our late beloved president, Joseph F. Smith, once said that if we could control our appetites, our acts would soon come under our control. So, too, if we can acquire the mastery of our thoughts, our words will be our servants, not our masters. Thoughts are the conscious mental expressions of our impulses, our desires, our hopes, aims, anxieties, ambitions and fears. The half-framed wishes and plans, terrors and anxieties which float around in the vague recesses of our minds, are comparatively powerless for good or for evil until we focus them into well-defined thoughts and then crystalize the thoughts into words and actions. Our thoughts create our happiness or our misery, they inspire our good actions or prompt us to bad and evil deeds. It is very easy, in youth, or in age, to loose control of the thoughts. Just let impulse, fear, sorrow, ambition, envy, greed, or jealousy, enter the citadel of your mind;  and lo. every sweet and gracious thought and desire is colored and tainted with the poisonous presence of these foul thoughts or fears. That which seemed innocent and elevating is transformed in our tainted thoughts into bad and unholy ideas;  we cannot weigh our own impulses fairly, much less can we judge rightly, as to the motives or acts of our neighbors. What a seething caldron of woe and despair can be poured 
 out to corrode our souls with false values, impure ambitions, or undue grief and mourning. Sleep is impossible, rest is a forgotten joy. How, then, can we get and keep control of our thoughts? It seems to me I would have given years of my life if some one had taught me as a girl how to control my thoughts. East Indian adepts and psychologists have all thrown floods of light on the mysterious processes of the mind, in recent years, and have taught us how to get the upper hand of unruly thoughts as well as to cultivate good and noble ideals and purposes. The Savior left us many keys to this mystery, and the Prophet taught us much;  but few older and well trained people, even now, take the trouble to explain thought control to the budding youth. I, myself, got my first glimpse of this truth at the tragic death of one of my children. I could not endure to think or hear any one speak about the details of my tragedy;  and so I busied myself with heavy and exacting toil, talking to people about every subject possible except myself and my sorrow. I was condemned as a coward and as an unnatural mother for thus seeming to ignore my sorrow;  but one dreadful night when I was trying to fight off the picture of woe which swept across my vision, I suddenly recalled that parable of the Savior's wherein the man troubled with an evil spirit drove out, swept and garnished the chamber and then found seven more evil spirits who had entered to take possession of the cleansed but empty chamber. 'Empty"   ah, that was the golden key to the whole parable. "Nature abhors a vacuum," I had heard some scientist quote even in that "science less" day, and I saw the application at once! I must not only drive out the one or the seven evil thoughts, I must also invite in speedily seven good, clean, righteous, hope-and-faith-building thoughts and keep the cleansed chamber of my mind so full of these good spirit images that there would be no room for sad or evil thoughts to come in at all. That is how I learned a part of this lesson. Our trouble with thought-control is, however, that we do not, or can not, keep the power we once gain. We banish certain thoughts or anxieties, but in a few days a flock of quite new and unheard of impulses fly into the chambers of our mind. So carefully are they dressed up, so skillful is their disguise, that we allow them to remain because they are partly good, measurably decent. By and by we discover they are masqueraders, evil impulses mixed up with a little good, but far more dangerous because of that very fact. We have a lot of "hyphenated" thoughts always which need to be dragged out into the daylight and rigidly examined as