[Vol7 | July 1920 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 427 to their truth to principle, their adherence to the pure moral code of Jesus. Have you learned how to undress your thoughts? Better begin that helpful exercise tonight, or the very next time you get a fit of depression, and just take yourself in hand. Drive out the evil thoughts after stripping off all their disguises, and then exercise your will to keep them out. Recite hymns, over and over, tell yourself you won't allow such impulses to guide you, that you are determined to be true, generous, kind, noble, and pure;  that you are not altogether bad nor are you very badly treated, either. Then, in a few days, you will have it all to do over again. But that is what Christ meant when he said, "Leave us not in temptation, but deliver us from all evil." Guide Lesson Suggestions Moths and Economy in Clothing (We give here two articles well adapted for lessons during the month of August. A list of questions are added for convenience, although class leaders are at liberty to arrange the material as best suited to their needs.) THE TRUE CLOTHES MOTHS. Introduction. The destructive work of the larvae of the small moths commonly known as clothes moths, and also as carpet moths, fur moths, etc., in woolen fabrics, fur, and similar material during the warm months of summer in the north, and at any season in the south, is an altogether too common experience. The preference they so often show for woolen or fur garments gives these insects a much more general interest than perhaps any other household pest. The little yellowish or buff-colored moths sometimes seen flitting about rooms, attracted to lamps at night, or dislodged from infested garments or partiers, are themselves harmless enough, and in fact, their mouth parts are rudimentary, and no food whatever is taken in the winged state. The destruction occasioned by these pests is, therefore, limited entirely to the feeding, or larval, stage. The killing of the moths by the aggrieved housekeeper, while usually based on the wrong inference that they are actually engaged in eating her woolens, is, nevertheless, a most valuable proceeding, because it checks in so much the multiplication of the species, which is the sole duty of the adult insect. Three common destructive species of clothes moths occur
