[Vol7 | July 1920 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Hydrotherapy Victoria B. Christenson]

(THE END) Hydrotherapy By Victoria B. Christensen, R. N. Hydrotherapy is derived from two Greek words, "water" and "cure." It is technically that method of treating disease by means of hot and cold water employed internally and externally. It is recognized by the medical fraternity as a valuable prophylactic, that is, a disease-preventative as well as a therapeutic, or curative agent. Among enlightened people "an ounce of prevention ought to be worth a pound of cure." It is a well established fact that the scientific application of water in the home will accomplish wonders in the cure and prevention of disease. When awakened to the wonderful curative properties of water, mothers everywhere will be eager to become acquainted with its various uses. God has provided his children with an abundance of water. They owe it to him, as well as themselves, to understand its healing effect on the human system. Water is one of the oldest known remedies for disease. History affirms that cold water bathing was made obligatory by laws of the ancient Greeks. Rome in the days of her glory held daily bathing so essential that the building of baths became a national art. The emperors vied with one another in the erection of magnificent public baths, spacious enough to accommodate thousands of people daily. According to the historian Pliny, the bath was almost the only method employed in the treatment of disease among the Romans for five centuries. The American Indian undoubtedly practiced a primitive system of water cure. During the middle ages, Arabic physicians, the most learned men of their time, were enthusiastic advocates of hydrotherapy. However, it remains for the recent ages to appreciate its very broad scope as a curative agent. Dr. Hoffman, a modern medical authority, declares that water is more nearly a panacea for all human ills than any other known agent. In harmony with the newest thought and with the latest mechanical and electrical inventions for therapeutic use, the Latter-day Saints' Hospital has established a department HYDROTHERAPY 399 called Hydrotherapy. It should have a broader title for it includes heat, light, as well as massage and electrotherapy. In this splendidly equipped department the large corps of nurses of the hospital training school are given first theoretical instructions in these important subjects, and in the third year of training they are given actual practice in the hydrotherapy under expert supervision. The elemental principle of hydrotherapy could be taught efficiently by means of theory and practice in the ward Relief Societies, and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. What a boon such instructions would prove to the coming generations. Who can estimate the good that would be accomplished by the wide-spread application of these principles which would surely follow such instructions in church organizations. The time cannot be far distant when these natural agents, wholly in accord with the word of wisdom and the spirit of revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the care of the sick, will supplant in the Latter-Day Saints' homes all poisonous drugs and dangerous patent medicines. Internal Uses of Water. Six reasons why individuals should drink water copiously are quoted by Dr. Gillman Thompson. These, in addition to the fact that sixty per cent of the body weight is fluid, are conclusive proof that water should be taken freely: 1. It enters into the chemical combination of the tissues. 2. It forms the chief ingredient of all fluids and maintains the proper degree of dilution. 3. By moistening various surfaces of the body, such as the mucous and serous membranes, it prevents friction and the uncomfortable symptoms which might result from their drying. 4. It furnishes in the blood and lymph a fluid medium by which food may be taken to remote parts of the body, and the waste material removed, thus promoting rapid tissue changes. 5. It serves as a distributor of body heat. 6. It regulates body temperature by the physical processes of absorption and evaporation. External Uses of Water. Some simple uses of water: How many of you mothers know how to relieve the pain of your little ones by the application of a fomentation, a cold compress, or a heating compress? 
 What is a fomentation? Merely several thicknesses of flannel wrung out of boiling water, and wrapped in two thicknesses of dry flannel, applied to seat of pain. Do you know the efficacy of a hot foot bath and a cold compress applied to the head to relieve congested headache? Have you used the turpentine stupes to relieve abnormal pain? Or the hot fomentations, followed by the heating compress for colds, coughs, sore throat, etc? You probably know how to give a bath to reduce temperature, but do you know how to treat constipation, insomnia, nervousness, rheumatism, lumbago, etc., without the use of medicine? The work of the Hydrotherapy Department of the L. D. S. Hospital is almost wholly corrective, where it should be preventive. Physicians recognize that many of the conditions calling for corrective treatments might in their incipiency have been prevented by simple hydrotherapeutic treatments in the home. The broad aim of the Hydrotherapy Department is to avoid ill health by right living, to eat nothing that will weaken or destroy bodily tissues or functions, to live in the sunshine, open air sleeping, simple electric treatment, use an abundance of water internally and externally. This form of living will do more to maintain health than all the drugs known to the medical profession. TO MY GRANDDAUGHTER. Donna Meacham. The brink of life you stand beside. Your journey only just begun;  The gulf 'twixt far harbor you is and life won. to be is wide, The years will bring you lessons long;  Just now you read with glances fleet;  Some day you'll face life sure and strong, If you read on with patience sweet. Live your young life so pure and true That memories which come in later years Will peace and comfort bring to you, Without remorse and without tears.