[Vol2 | January 1915 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men President Joseph F. Smith]
"Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men." Remarks by President Joseph F. Smith at Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1914. My dear sisters: I am pleased to have the privilege of being present with you for a short time. I am not, however, prepared to speak to you upon any subject, and shall, therefore, have to depend entirely upon the promptings of the Spirit. We certainly live in troublesome times; and, notwithstanding the peace that pervades our own land, we are not without our troubles at home. And many of the troubles that we ourselves are having are very serious in their trend, and in the possible results that may come from them. And it is well enough for us to think a little about the troubles that pervade our own borders, as well as to mourn so very seriously over the preventable troubles that have come upon our neighbors. The troubles that come are very serious, sad, disastrous, cruel and wicked; no question about it. And there is, among us today, I am sorry to say, the germ of the spirit that has prompted, very largely, the conditions that exist in Europe today; internal unrest, dissatisfaction, discontent, internal contention over political, labor, and religious matters, and almost every subject that affects society at this time. And the very germ that has prompted the terrible results that we see in the nations of Europe, is at work among us here today. We need not forget it, nor ignore it, either. There is just one power, and one only, that can prevent war among the nations of the earth, and that is true religion and undefiled before God, the Father. Nothing else will accomplish it. In the early days of the Church, aye, before the Church was organized, God declared, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the great principle that no religious organization then extant in the world was acknowledged by him. It is difficult to make people believe it. It is almost impossible to make even many of those who have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ actually accept this great proposition. If it had been declared by man, men might have reason to doubt it. It is a very common expression today that there is good in all religions. So there is; but there is not sufficient good in the denominations of the world to prevent war, nor to prevent contention, strife, division and hatred of one another. And, put all the good doctrines in all the denominations of the world together, and they do not constitute sufficient good to prevent the evils that exist in the world. Why? Because the denominations lack the essential knowledge of God's revelation and truth, and the enjoyment of that spirit which comes from God that 
 leadeth unto all truth, and that inspires men to do good and not evil, to love and not to hate, to forgive and not to bear malice, to be kind and generous and not to be unkind and contracted. So, I repeat, there is but one remedy that can prevent men from going to war, when they feel disposed to do it, and that is the Spirit of God, which inspires to love, and not to hatred, which leads unto all truth, and not unto error, which inclines the children of God to pay deference to him and to his laws and to esteem them as above all other things in the world. The Lord has told us that these wars would come. We have not been ignorant that they were pending, and that they were likely to burst out upon the nations of the earth at any time. We have been looking for the fulfilment of the words of the Lord that they would come. Why? Because the Lord wanted it? No; not by any means. Was it because the Lord predestined it, or designed it, in any degree? No, not at all. Why? It was for the reason that men did not hearken unto the Lord God, and he foreknew the results that would follow, because of men, and because of the nations of the earth; and therefore he was able to predict what would befall them, and come upon them in consequence of their own acts, and not because he has willed it upon them, for they are but suffering and reaping the results of their own actions. I was reminded, while Sister Richards was speaking to us, of an experience that I had forty years ago. In 1874, I visited Continental Europe. Previous to that I had been in Great Britain, and I had the privilege of crossing the channel into Scandinavia, but never before had been among the continental nations. One of the things that forcibly attracted my attention, in my sojourn among the European people, was the manual labor thrust upon the women. One of the first sights that I saw was a woman hooked up with a dog, pulling a cart in the streets of one of the cities of Europe, and trying to make her living out of bartering watercress, or some sort of herbs, which she may have gathered where she could. And that was the condition of hundreds and hundreds of women in those great cities. And then I saw a woman and a donkey hitched up to the cart together, the woman on the one side and the donkey on the other, tramping through the streets of those cities, trying to make a living. And when we landed in the seaport town, the first I observed were women rowing the boats, women standing at the markets and at the tables, and women packing great baskets of fish upon their backs, and going up to the various markets to distribute them. And when we passed through the fields, we saw women making bricks, at the brick kilns — no men; and when we looked over the fields, we saw scarecrows scattered around among the fields to scare off ravenous birds, and every scarecrow in the fields "PEACE ON EARTH, GOOD WILL TO MEN." 15 was dressed in women's clothes — not in men's. I remarked the other day to a boy who was born in Germany, and who came from there just recently, about these things which I had seen. "Oh," he said, "that is nothing; it is nothing for women in Germany to make their living; they are used to it. It is nothing for them to let the men go to war; they have had to provide for themselves before." When we reached the great centers of those countries, we discovered men dressed in military clothes. Those who were not on military duty, at the time, were sauntering about restaurants, saloons, gambling places and other places of ill repute, smoking their cigars, twirling their little canes in their hands, exploiting as gentlemen, while the women were doing the drudgery in the fields. I saw that forty years ago, with my own eyes, in Europe. Well, I pitied them then. And while I felt indignant at the world for the conditions that existed, I felt most indignant because the conditions which I saw there with my own eyes had been charged upon the women of Utah, while such things never existed in Utah at all. Those conditions continue, and will continue, I presume. Well now, my sisters, "peace on earth, and good will to men," is our slogan. That is our principle. That is the principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And while I think it is wrong, wickedly wrong, to force war upon any nation, or upon any people, I believe it is righteous and just for every people to defend their own lives and their own liberties, and their own homes, with the last drop of their blood. I believe it is right, and I believe that the Lord will sustain any people in defending their own liberty, to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, any people trying to preserve their wives and their children from the ravages of war. But we do not want to be brought into the necessity of having to defend ourselves. We want to remain continually in the condition that existed here many years ago, when we were visited by an army, whose ostensible and manifest purpose was to destroy the leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and break up the Church. President Young said to the boys who went out to defend us: "Don't shed blood. Be careful that you don't shed blood. Do everything in your power to prevent their coming. Harass them; take away their means of travel, if you can, but don't shed the blood of any man!" That was the doctrine that was taught by President Young to the Latter-day Saints, at that time. "And if you will be careful to observe this," he said, "you will be delivered, and God will fight your battles." And the Lord did it. And so I believe it will always be with the people of God. If the condition of the world appears to you as it does me, at the present time, it seems to me that you have within your hearts and minds one of the strongest evidences, that has ever been
