[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 724 | Special Feature | The Covenant and the Promise Alvin | R. Dyer]
[faith and repentance]
[the Holy Ghost]
[faith and repentance]
[footnotes]
[the Holy Ghost]

The Covenant
and
the Promise

Alvin R. Dyer
Assistant to the Council of the Twelve

■ The laws of faith and repentance, as we have shown, are principles of light, or intelligence, and will ever be associated with man's eternal progress; but in and of themselves they are not completely effectual. Until, by volitional promise, a sign is made with God the Father signifying that without reserve, having understood good and evil, and having chosen good over evil, in sincerity and confidence, man stands ready to make a covenant and promise of what he intends to do. Of such nature is the ordinance of baptism by water. Such declarations as: "Teach all nations [faith and repentance], baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,"¹ "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved,"² "Repent and be baptized,"³ (italics added) "Repent of all thy transgressions, and be baptized,"⁴ designate the culminative aspect of receiving a remission of sin, the desire to do better. It is natural for man who has committed sin, who, having been awakened to his wrongdoing is repentant, to desire to promise that he will not follow that sinful path again. Here, then, are the elementary gospel steps of faith, repentance, and baptism.

Baptism Is a Sign to God

Baptism by water, as an essential element to the redeeming processes from spiritual death, is just as fixed and permanent as a divine law of salvation, as the immovable laws which govern the planets and the stars. Of this the Prophet Joseph Smith declared:

God has made certain decrees which are fixed, and immovable, for instance: God set the sun, the moon, and the stars in the heavens, and gave them their laws, conditions and bounds which they cannot pass, except by his

¹Matthew 28:19.
²Mark 16:16.
³D&C 18:41.
⁴Moses 6:52.

724

THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE

commandments; they all move in perfect harmony in their sphere, and order, and are as lights, wonders and signs unto us . . . upon the same principle . . . baptism is a sign ordained of God, for the believer in Christ to take upon himself in order to enter into the Kingdom of God, for except ye are born of water, and of the spirit ye cannot enter into the Kingdom of God, saith the Savior . . . Baptism is a sign to God, to angels, and to heaven that we will do the will of God.⁵

The Extent and Reality of the Sign

In the same interview which Adam, the earthly father of the human family, had with the Lord, following the banishment of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden because of their transgression, he had been told by the Lord that their transgression that had invoked temporal death was forgiven, "the Son of God hath atoned for the original guilt,"⁶ but as to redemption, or reconciliation from spiritual death concerned with the individual and personal transgression of Adam and Eve and all of their earth-life natural descendants, the Lord gave "another law and commandment,"⁷ to be absorbed by themselves and to be taught freely unto their children. This other law and commandment involved the principles of faith and repentance, and the ordinance, or sign, of baptism by water and of the Spirit. Here is the commandment:

That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the

kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten; that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory.⁸

Concerning the Use of Water and Complete Immersion

Needless to say, within the ranks of Christendom there are many modes of baptism, and many concepts of the use of water. But in the restored Church of Jesus Christ, by virtue of divine instruction on the matter, there are no mutations of that mode and use of water that was revealed in the beginning unto Adam our earthly father. The actual baptism of Adam is the pattern for all mankind, and the words of counsel and instruction given him at the time by the Lord, are significant to the importance of this symbolic method, of "new birth" unto reconciliation with God.

And now, behold, I say unto you: This is the plan of salvation unto all men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the Meridian of time.

And behold, all things have their likeness, and all things are created and made to bear record of me, both things which are temporal, and things which are spiritual; things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the earth, and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the earth, both above and beneath: all things bear record of me.

And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water.⁹

⁵Times and Seasons, Vol. 3, pp. 751-752.
⁶Moses 6:54.
⁷Ibid. 6:56.
⁸Ibid. 6:59.
⁹Moses 6:62-64.

725

OCTOBER 1965

President Brigham Young had this thought concerning the use of water, which stresses the importance of the complete covering of water as a true sign of coming forth into a newness of life: "In the last book of the New Testament," the statement is made, "that in the beginning God cursed the earth; but did he curse all things pertaining to it? No, he did not curse the water; he blessed it. Pure water is cleansing—it serves to purify, and you are aware that the ancient saints were very tenacious with regard to their purification by water."

In order to answer to the likeness of the dead, that one principle might accord with the other, "the ordinance of baptism by water," declared the Prophet Joseph Smith, is, "To be immersed in the water and come forth out of the water in the likeness of the resurrection of the dead in coming forth out of their graves. . . ." The Prophet, speaking further of baptism by immersion, as the more complete symbol of death, burial, and resurrection, stated: "Immersion is certainly a correct figure, and represents his burial and resurrection exactly. It is a better symbol of it, at all events, than the symbol of sprinkling,—for ask all common sense, how a man can be baptized into Jesus Christ,—'baptized into his death'—be 'buried with him by baptism into death,'—and be planted together 'in the likeness of his death,' in

a single drop or even a bucket of water. It is an impossibility."

The historic accounts of the ordinance of baptism of Adam the first man, and of Jesus of Nazareth, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, by immersion, as the complete symbol of death, burial, and resurrection, together with the numerous scriptural references in both the Holy Bible and The Book of Mormon, which assert this mode of baptism, should leave no doubt in any open mind of the validity of the Fourth Article of Faith in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: "We believe the first principles and ordinances of the gospel are: First, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) Repentance; (3) Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; (4) Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost."

The Dual Nature of Baptism

The ordinance of baptism by immersion in water, has, from the beginning, been a symbol of "cleansing" and "washing" pertaining to a remission of sin. Even when the fulness of the gospel was not among men, because of their wickedness and rebellion against God, the practice of baptism solely for repentance and a remission of sin has been practiced. Of this nature were the baptisms performed by John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Christ. But in the fulness of baptism, in addition to the remission of sin of those who worthily, by faith and repentance, obtain this ordinance, there is the covenant and promise, which the Prophet Joseph Smith, as already stated, proclaimed to be, "a sign

[footnotes]
JD., Brigham Young, Vol. 7, page 162.
Times and Seasons, Vol. 4, page 595.
Times and Seasons, Vol. 4, page 622.
Moses 6:60.
Matthew 3:13-16.
John 3:23; Acts 8:39; Romans 6:3-5.
3 Nephi 11:23-26.
Fourth Article of Faith.
See D&C 84:26-27.
See Matthew 3:11.

726

THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE

to God, to angels, and to heaven that we do the will of God." Man in the making of this covenant with God, having been forgiven of his sins, has the promise of the gift of the Holy Ghost, in confirmation of the steps he has taken in behalf of his personal salvation.

The Baptism of the Spirit

When Adam, the first man, was baptized, being, "brought forth out of the water," the Spirit of God, or Holy Ghost descended upon him, and "thus he was born of the spirit and became quickened in the inner man." The record of Moses gives this account of what then actually transpired:

And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him; and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man.

And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever;

And thou art after the order of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity.

Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons. Amen.20

Thus, we see the pattern of the actual reconciliation of the spirit child (inner man), and God the Father, which, henceforth and forever, is the law that pertains to the deaths, and the redemption thereof, of the spirit children of God who became estranged, because of transgression.

20Moses 6:65-68.
21Matthew 3:13-15.

As Paul the Apostle many centuries later declared—"And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given us the ministry of reconciliation. To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation" (NT. II Cor. 5:18-19).

This irrevocable law of righteousness will never change; it is the law whereby all may again become sons and daughters of God, in redemption from spiritual death.

Jesus Obedient to the Covenant and Promise

It was in obedience to this law of righteousness, manifested by covenant and promise in the symbol of baptism by water and the spirit, that led Jesus to say to John the Baptist (whom he sought out at the Jordan River, and who, recognizing his sinless condition, proclaimed, "I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?"): "Suffer it to be so now; for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness."21 The Lord had no need of baptism as a symbol or ordinance for the remission of sin, since he "knew no sin" (NT. II Cor. 5:21), but as a sign or covenant unto God the Father that he would be completely submissive to his will, and that he would fulfill his purpose as the Redeemer of mankind, the ordinance of baptism was necessary for him, personally, to fulfill all righteousness.

The confirmation of this covenant came instantly, for as Jesus came up "straightway out of the

727

OCTOBER 1965

water . . . lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God [the Holy Ghost],²² descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."²³ (Italics added.)

The Firstborn Son of God had covenanted and promised in the pre-mortal councils that he would come to earth to redeem mankind, but, then, when he possessed the body of a man, and was himself subject to physical death and also capable of committing sin, it was necessary, being in the flesh, to rise above all things, and, while in possession of a mortal body which could be susceptible to the enticings of the Evil One, for him, through the eternal law of baptism, to reaffirm his premortal covenant. Because of this, God the Father was pleased; and then he, too, affirmed the mission of the Lord, his Beloved Son.

Lucifer Seeks to Take Advantage

There appears to be no question in the evil mind of Lucifer, the arch enemy of the chosen Firstborn and Beloved Son of God the Father, that the conditions of mortality into which the Lord had been placed, made him liable to sin and disobedience, but to neither of which did he yield. Nevertheless, Lucifer, the devil, pressed what he thought was an advantage, to cause the chosen Son of God to deviate from his assigned mission, and thus frustrate the design of God in the earth-life purpose of

man. But the Lord, the Firstborn in the Spirit and Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, met every attempt of Lucifer to deceive and destroy him.²⁴ Being the prince of the world, he offered Jesus all of the kingdoms and glory of the earth if he would but worship him. The Lord's denunciation was final, "Get thee hence Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve."²⁵

The Still Small Voice of the Holy Ghost

The influence and power of the Holy Ghost came to a responsive and worthy Adam after baptism; this same power and influence came to a divine and sinless Christ, who sought guidance and influence as it emanated from God the Father; and this same pattern is for all of the sons and daughters of God, who shall be obedient to it, "to fulfill all righteousness." It is a power that intercedes in the mind of the inner man, with all of its administrative force; it is, then, for the physical mind through restraint and obedience to it, to become at one mind with the inner man.

The Holy Ghost, as we have learned, is a personage of spirit, the same as the Firstborn Son of God was, in singular form, before birth into mortality. The image of the Holy Ghost is the same as of the Father and the Son. The brother of Jared saw the spirit person of Christ the Lord before his mortal birth; the body of Christ's spirit was the same in stature, image, and size as that of a man, for man was created spiritually and physically, after that same image.²⁶

²²Luke 3:22.
²³Matthew 3:16-17.
²⁴See Matthew 4:1-7; see also Moses 1:12-22.
²⁵Ibid. 4:8-10.
²⁶See Ether 3:14-16.

728

THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE

From this we come to know of the person whom we call the Holy Ghost, who is a spirit, in full stature and size as that of a man.

Under the administration of the Holy Ghost, mankind can be and is influenced, in the manner described by the Master unto Nicodemus, as the listing and blowing of the wind, "and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit."27

As man obeys the gospel principles of faith and repentance, and fulfills all righteousness in being baptized by immersion, symbolizing death, burial, and resurrection, and all is done in worthiness by the covenant and promise, then he becomes the beneficiary of the promise of the Father in receiving the guiding and enlightening influence of the power administered by that appointed holy being, called the Holy Ghost. This great power is a guiding light, a comforting influence, a testifying power in every walk of life to the righteous man. Its manifestation to each person, as described by the Prophet Elijah, is that of "a still small voice." The witness of this, the greatest power upon the earth, was invoked upon Elijah, the Tishbite prophet, who, seeking refuge in the caves of Mount Horeb, while the Lord God demonstrated the many physical powers of destruction that could be visited upon the enemies of this great prophet of the sealing

27John 3:7-8.
28I Kings 19:8-13; See The Lord Speaketh, pp. 303-305.
29D&C 93:38.
30Moses 6:54.
31D&C 93:39.

power, witnessed, "a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and broke in pieces the rocks ... but the Lord was not in the wind; and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake; And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire; and after the fire a still small voice."28 (Italics added.)

Accountability and Infant Baptism

In a revelation from God unto the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in May of 1833, the innocence of the spirit of man in his infant mortal state was affirmed: "Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God."29

It was revealed unto Moses, as previously referred to, "that the Son of God hath atoned for the original guilt,"30 thus relieving any man of accountability for the transgression or the sin of another. The innocence of the spirit of man in his infant state continues until he reaches a time of accountability, wherein he comes to know good and evil, at which time, as the Lord further revealed, covering the conditions which actually develop in each personal life: "... that wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men and because of the tradition of their fathers."31

It can be seen, therefore, that the spirit of man, in his earth life infant state is without sin, and continues in this condition until, through experience and growing

729

OCTOBER 1965

knowledge of good and evil, he becomes accountable. Until then, baptism by water for the remission of sin would be ineffectual. Under this condition, there would also be no need for the covenant and promise, for sin and transgression would not have entered. But there comes a time in the growing years of each child's life, "according to the tradition," or in accordance with the law of perceiving good and evil, that each spirit son and daughter of God tabernacled in a mortal body, reaches an age of accountability; and from that youthful age until mortal death each is in need of the ordinance of baptism by water and the spirit to be reconciled to God. As the revelations from God clearly state: "For all men must repent and be baptized, and not only men, but women, and children who have arrived at the years of accountability."32 The New Testament record of the Holy Bible, when understood, proclaims that those who are to be baptized must be capable of being taught33 and thereafter are to have the power of perception so as to believe;34 possessing the capability of repentance;35 and of bringing forth fruits of repentance.36

The Age of Accountability

That there need be no disputations as to the proper age for the baptism of children, the Lord gave this commandment to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as a law:

32D&C 18:42.
33See Matthew 28:19-20.
34See Mark 16:15-16; Acts 8:12, 36-37; Acts 10:34-35; 16:32-34; 18:8.
35See Acts 2:38.
36See Luke 3:7-8.
37D&C 68:27. See also 20:37, 20:68.
38Moroni 8:7-8.
39Ibid. 8:9, 11, 14.

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of hands."37 (Italics added.)

Baptism of Infants Condemned

Not only would the baptism of children who have not reached the age of accountability be ineffectual, but it is condemned by the Lord, as a challenge to him in the design and purpose of earth-life experience; and, therefore, a flaunting disregard for the will and commandments of God. Concerning this, Mormon, a prophet of God unto the ancient people of the American Continent, proclaims the mockery and error of baptizing infants, or any child before that child reaches the age of perception and accountability. Here are some excerpts from his strong writings on the subject, to his son Moroni (about 400-421 A.D.):

. . . the word of the Lord came to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying: Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore, little children are whole, for they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them.38

I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children . . . he that supposeth that little children need baptism is in the gall of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity.39

Conclusive Evidence

Space will not be taken here to prove from ancient historical accounts, which could effectively

730
