[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 746 | Fiction | A Great Lady Margery | S. Stewart]
Smith ~~ we ¢ ~~ we @ There was a great lady who could make songs of her own. When she sang the songs in the evenings, all the townspeople gathered outside her windows to listen. The lady sang her songs softly, but so sweet was her voice and so gentle her fingers on the harp strings that listeners were moved to weep. At first the woman was delighted at the praise and gratitude of the humble village people, but as her fame spread, and more wealthy people came to listen, she began to grow impatient with the villagers. At last, the lady, who now was asked to visit distant cities to 746 ~ my fh: I S ~ Margery S. Stewart sing her songs, became angry with the villagers and built a high stone wall about her house, so they could no more press her windows. "Only those who pay shall hear me now," she said. One day the lady decided to give a great recital for many lmportant men and women who were visiting the island. For days her servants and gardeners swept and dusted and made ready the garlands of flowers for the guests. The great feast was made ready for the earth ovens. On the day of the recital everything shone. The sun was its brightest, the air most delightfully scented, the garden bloomed with lavish beauty, and the many lawns were green and tender to the eye. The lady stood in her purple robes with a crown upon her head, for many had told her she was a queen among women. How beautiful and grand she felt how proud to think of all the people who would soon be walking about admiring her gardens and flowers. Suddenly someone bowed over her hand. The lady looked up in surprise. It was an uninvited guest who stood there. Though he was very tall and handsome and gentle in manner, still he was a stranger. "Who are you?" asked the lady in wonder. "I am the messenger and the physician," said the stranger. "But I am not ill," cried the lady in some alarm. "Only your eyes," said the messenger and physician, and with that, he took a powder from his robes and blessed each of her eyes. After the small smarting was over, the lady opened her eyes and saw things very clearly. She saw her beautiful gardens, but everywhere she looked she saw the patient hands of her gardeners and the tears of the maids she had scolded. "Your guests are arriving," said the messenger and physician. The lady looked up and cried aloud, for each guest was supported by a pair of crutches, and on these crutches each one limped carefully. "Oh, how terrible!"' cried the lady, but then she was silent in some astonishment, for as the guests came nearer, she saw they were not at all sad because of their affliction, but rejoiced in their crutches. Some of them had taken great pains to make them especially beautiful and had had A GREAT LADY them inlaid with gold or silver or precious stones, and some were ivory and beautifully carved. "How strange,' murmured the lady. "Behold them," said the messenger and the physician, "for they are all named." And so they were. Some of them were named "Beauty," some "Wealth"; some were named "Pedigree" and some ''Wisdom"'; but each had a name. Suddenly there was a commotion. The lady looked toward the sound. She saw that one of the guests who leaned on crutches marked "Beauty" had stumbled and fallen to the ground. The broken crutches, which had _ betrayed her, were fallen beside her. "Alas," cried the lady, watching her stricken guest being carried away, "alas! That one should rely on such crutches as beauty. I rejoice that I am without such crutches." "Look," said the messenger and physician. The lady looked down and beheld that she also leaned upon crutches. The name _ of her crutches was "Talent," and they were of pure silver. With a cry of dismay, the lady cast the crutches from her. She stumbled and could not stand. The physician knelt beside her. She looked at him in fear. "Why can I not stand without the crutches?" "Because you have leaned upon the gift and not the Giver." The lady wept, for with her new sight, she saw that it would take great pain and endurance and self-denial to learn to lean upon that which would support her forever. 747 @ When I went into our garden to set the sprinkler, I stopped to admire our fast-growing nectarine tree. This year the weather had been perfect for its development, and it had put out a great deal of new wood. It seemed almost twice as large as last year; the leaves were clean and green, and the fruit that had been hanging with a cheek to the sun had already been warmed to blue-rose blushes, When I returned later to reset the sprinkler, the beautiful tree lay on its Side, its from the water-softened earth. J simply couldn't My husband looked at it Sadly.

"We let the water run too long, 748 Helen H inckley Jones I guess. But perhaps we can stil] Save the tree, [']] get under it and lift it while you put a prop under it." Of course this was. Wishful thinking. What teacher of English is capable of lifting a large tree while another word-handler tries to put a prop under it? We struggled, Nothing happened. Some dim memory stirred, and I ran for a length of rope, with the idea that I could tie the rope to the tree and then hang my weight to the other end of the rope. I didn't remember that, for this Procedure to be successful, I would have to Weigh more than the tree! In a moment a neighbor, from the wind-swept plains of South Dakota, came to offer both ad- vice and muscle. "What happened?" he asked. Both Ivan and I lifted our shoulders in a magnificent display of actual ignorance. Then Ivan tried for an answer. "'I guess we gave it too much water."' 'See that down side?" Mr. Dakota asked. "Note how much more growth there is on that side than on the up side? The tree wasn't balanced." And then he added, "Trees don't root deep here in California as they do on the plains. Growth is too easy and too fast. There aren't any winds to buck, either." Mr. Dakota and Ivan lifted together. I put my weight on the rope and slowly the tree came to an upright position. Quickly I tied the rope to a metal support that was none too firm itself. While Mr. Dakota balanced the tree, Ivan went for boards to use as temporary props. "You better prune off all that heavy side and leave it propped for a couple of months," Mr. Dakota said as he placed the boards where they would do the most good and guyed a wire to a neighboring fence post. I watched his expertness with envy; but still I was thinking, "I wonder if I could make a parable out of this." Surely many of us—like the little nectarine tree—lose our footing and pull our roots out of soil that has been softened by new influences. Think of the adolescent girl who finds that her parents are not the stable people she had thought them. How easy it is for her to draw her roots out of the unfamiliar, disintegrating environment..