[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 748 | Special Feature | Consider the Nectarine Helen | Hinckley Jones]
CONSIDER THE NECTARINE Then, what had Mr. Dakota said? The tree had grown unevenly. It had put out new wood, new leaves, heavy fruit, only in one direction. Many of us are, without realizing it, growing too much in one direction. Perhaps we are growing physically but not mentally. Or, perhaps even more likely, we may be growing mentally but not emotionally and_ spiritually. The student away from the influence of his home and attending an advanced technological institute may lose touch with his church and come to believe that only those things that can be proved by scientific methods can be of worth. Or, what was that other statement of Mr. Dakota? "Things don't root deep here in California. They grow too fast and too easily. There aren't any winds to buck, either."" I often wonder what differences there would be in me if I had lived the pioneer life. If I had belonged to the Martin Company, for example. But there is still another possible parable. Ivan and I saw the fallen tree. With the help of our neighbor, we set it upright. We knew how to give it temporary support. Perhaps we_ should watch for humans who have fallen, help them to their feet, and assist them until they are again firmly rooted. If we had the gift that Jesus had for telling parables, we might begin an immortal classic with the words: "Consider the nectarine tree, which having put all of its growth on one side, and finding itself in soil that was no longer firm." 749 ] few years, it Seems Me girl, I Was so inefficient! Would just iron 80ing Someplace and ©. I would wait for Cfore I would bathe the b y, because! Felt So j » and then j j iMpossible that I 4 Shirt jf my husband Was iM to Come ho at one o: had to Work and Plan to get Everything ready so as I thought the Children Would be Minute Of it. It [ » New Shortcuts Orking with Children All his, and even the WonderfyI lessons that Made me read and Stud Then the time Was Changeq t Morning bright 4nd earI Couldn't Bive UP no So I worked 2round the house t nigh Were in b * SO I coulg be ready for