Margery S. Stewart God, thou hast left The blue doors open. There are no bars Saying, thus far, no Farther. Stars Swing down to tantalize And bless. They cry, swing on us, Perchance reach him, Choose the perilous. The sun in the gold air Blazes the thin paths And draws us all day To be consumed by him. Fall the dear dross away. The light from the open Stairway searches our fires, To see if any be lighted By our love for him. If ever so small a one Be sighted, What a shout goes up! What a cry and bending Down of angels... Though They find Only one traveler weeping In the dusk, blind, Caught between flame and flame, Burned, thirsting, stricken, Hunted, but obdurate, still Reaching for him to quicken. The instant whisper comes From the highest sphere. Climb, my son, continue, | am here. The Cover: Sunset on the Mississippi River at Nauvoo, Illinois Transparency by Rowena J. Miller Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Mistaya Valley, Canadian Rockies Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: | Mary Scopes My dear friend Mrs. Marvin B. Greene of Phoenix, Arizona, has subscribed to the Magazine for me for several years. Although she moved away from Knoxville many years ago, the Magazine, in its visits, is a. Constant reminder of our friendship across the miles. | enjoy the stories, the beautiful pictures, the delicious: recipes, the lovely poems (which seem to just fit my needs), and the. Handwork. The. Magazine reminds me of the verse in the Bible: "He hath made everything beautiful in his time." Mrs. John Flowers Knoxville, Tennessee | wish to thank Mary Scopes for illustrating my story ''That Certain Sparkle"' (April 1966) so beautifully. She certainly adds that final touch that a story needs. The April issue is just wonderful throughout. | am sending a copy to a friend in Germany who was a mission mother to my son. She has learned the English language the past two years, and writes to me faithfully. Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho The Relief Society and the Magazine are both a tangible help in improving my marriage and in rearing four beautiful children—three boys and a girl my husband and | have been blessed with. Of particular interest to me are the thoughtful and well-written lessons in literature, and, of course, | especially like the poetry. Donna F. Swain St. Paul Park Minnesota The Relief Society Magazine was a gift from my mother-in-law five years ago, when | joined the Church. Since then, | have found helpful hints and beautiful stories and pictures to help in rearing my children, and in growing within myself. | hope the day will come when | will be able to pour out the joy | have received to help others. Although my mother is not a member of the Church, she also enjoys receiving the Magazine. Marlene Spriggs Covina, California | enjoy the Magazine so much, especially since | am not able to get out to meetings. | enjoy the poems and stories and the gospel messages. To see the pictures of the Singing Mothers brings back memories. | cannot sing very well since my-accident, but | am happy that so' many can sing. It is a wonderful privilege to sing in the Tabernacle, and | appreciate the opportunity | had to sing there, and partake of the Spirit of the Lord: in that house. Thanks, also, for the recipes in the Magazine, and the sewing and handwork features. | loved all the decorative features in the December Magazine. All of the covers are lovely, too. Martha Steffensen Brokaw Preston, Idaho May | say how very grateful | am 'for The Relief Society Magazine, and for the beautiful poems. As a convert, and as a recent emigrant to Salt Lake City, Utah, from England, | am trying to build a new life. Having a little time to spare, and not having any ideas as how to spend it, | picked up the March Relief Society Magazine and came across the article ''This Day Is Mine," by Helen A. Nielsen. Thank you for showing me how to spend this day that is mine, and for being so very blessed. Joan E. Gifford Salt Lake City, Utah | returned recently from a visit to Utah, where | was visiting relatives who belong to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. | am a Baptist, but | have received The Relief Society Magazine for the past year and a half, and enjoy it very much. | went to a Relief Society work meeting with my niece and enjoyed every minute. | think all the women are wonderful, and | have never seen more friendly people. | have visited Utah six times, and | love it there. Mrs. Martha Woods St. Louis, Missouri | enjoyed the May frontispiece poem "Place of Prayer,"" by Marilyn McMeen Miller. It is interesting to see new talent and different types of poetry. Lois S. Clayton Englewood, Colorado The a € Relief Society Oe —_ 

Volume 53 November 1966 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager. Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 804 Woman Ennobled Belle S. Spafford 811 "None Other Name" Marianne C. Sharp 814 "Every Wise Woman" Louise W. Madsen 816 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 836 Home for Thanksgiving Mabel Harmer 844 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 5 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 802 From Near and Far 824 Editorial: "I Am the Light of the World" Louise W. Madsen 826 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 851 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities; 880 Birthday Congratulations ~ The Home - Inside and Out 829 Make Christmas Cookies Early Alice P. Willardson 832 Comfort Your Baby Shirley Thulin 834 Recipe for a Happier You Jean Smith 843 Myrtle John Portrays the Beauties of Nature in Handicraft Designs Lesson Department 858 Spiritual Living—A Divine Document Prepares the Way for the Restoration of the Gospel Roy W. Doxey 864 Visiting Teacher Message 'Let Your Hearts Be Comforted..." Alice Colton Smith 865 Homemaking—Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement Celestia J. Taylor 868 Social Relations—Heirs to the Kingdom Alberta H. Christensen 873 Cultural Refinement—"Time for Courtesy" Bruce B. Clark Poetry 801 The Thin Gold Paths Margery S. Stewart By Faith Alone, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 810; First Things First, Christie Lund Coles, 822; Children Go Leaping, Lael W. Hill, 822; Coyote, Peggy Tangren, 823; Shining Aftermath, Kathryn Kay, 827; Where Is the Child? Annie Atkin Tanner, 828; Four A. M. Siren, Dorothy J. Roberts, 831; Going Somewhere, Linda L. Clarke, 831; Flowers for Winter, Fay Ottesen, 835; To Walk Alone, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 850; Sea Etching, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 867; Resolution, Estella S. Johnson. 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.: 

President Belle S. Spafford {Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] In March 1840, Elder Parley P. Pratt, exuberant with joy and gratitude over the truths revealed anew through the restored gospel, released his feelings in poetic words which were published on the first page of the initial number of the Millennial Star, and later set to music. As we, too, have rejoiced in the knowledge and_ the blessings which have come to us through modern revelation, we have sung the words penned by Elder Pratt with depth of feeling: The morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo, Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. Truly women should rejoice in the brighter day which dawned for womankind with the restoration. As the rays of the gospel shed their light upon the earth, the lofty position accorded woman in the gospel plan and the importance of her divinely ordained earthly mission were made clearly visible, and new vistas for development and purposeful living, under the guidance of the Priesthood, were opened to her view. In the early part of the nineteenth century, there appears to have been little consideration given to the divine nature and destiny of woman, and life for her encompassed but few of the opportunities and advantages contemplated in the gospel plan. Let us briefly review her position and circumstances. True, it is hard to arrive at a precisely clear picture which might be applied to every woman of that day. The differing economic and social circumstances, the varied conditions and cultures of her area of residence, the western movement - in America which demanded unusual adaptations in order to meet the requirements of survival—all had bearing on the life of a woman. This we know, however, her world was in large measure her home, her Church, and her neighborhood. Life for the average woman was hard, and many shackles bound her in the development of her talents and in the exercise of her abilities, as well as in the exercise of her God-ordained free agency. There were rigid barriers of law against property holding and guardianship of children. Most industries refused to employ her and those which did offered her only routine labor with long hours and low pay. The taboos of society on education and public expression, along with the prevalent superstition which held, "the weak, feminine brain, incapable of serious thinking." shackled her personal development. The advantages of education were extremely limited. Colleges of higher learning did not admit her. True, women had served as teachers of a sort, but they were primary teachers instructing only in the three "Rs." They received miserable pay, usually living in the home of a WOMAN ENNOBLED student with board and room as the teaching wage. When education ventured beyond the primary level, it was for the benefit of the male, and teaching became work for the schoolmaster, not the schoolmistress. In the field of religion she had the privilege of organizing ladies aid societies, though after a timid and limited fashion. Most churches seem to have maintained their female society, with the women being allowed to decorate and tend the altars, meet for. Prayer and religious discussion, sew for the church, and administer to the poor through the earnings acquired through the sale of their own products. They were forbidden, however, to have vote in the affairs of the church. The political privileges of women were nil. There had been sporadic women's clubs of a sort —neighbors meeting together for sociability and the exercise of their minds—with some groups working in a haphazard fashion for the public good. These clubs were poorly organized, however, and affairs were largely controlled by husbands of the members. In 1833, a few bold women formed the first woman's club with a _ political purpose—the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society. The furor which this aroused is described in the book, Angels and Amazons, issued by the National Council of Women of the United States in 1935. It states that the woman who identified herself with this group was regarded as bold and unwise indeed, for a respectable woman did not speak in public, nor did she organize in behalf of any political cause. At the first con- 805 NOVEMBER 1966 vention held by this gropp, a mob roared outside the meeting place, and following the meeting, the building was burned. With such conditions for woman extant, came the light of the gospel, dispelling darkness, injustice, and bigotry, and glorifying woman as a beloved daughter of our Heavenly Father with a divinely ordained mission in earth life. It illumined the paths that led to the development of her divine mission. It opened for her endless doors of opportunity. The doctrines and teachings of the restored Church were explicit with regard to woman and removed for all time the age-old "controversy of woman's rights versus man's rights. | The late Dr. John A. Widtsoe, in an article published in The Relief Society Magazine, clearly sets forth some of these doctrines and teachings as follows: She (woman) bears joint responsibility with man in establishing the kingdom of God... Full equality has been provided in the Church between man and woman. They are equal in opportunity, privilege, and_ rights. They have a common destiny, which as free agents they may attain or lose through their own actions.... It [the Church] has given her full rights of suffrage and property ownership. It recognizes her equal mental powers with those of man and the right to use her inborn talents to the This equality does not ignore the natural differences between man and woman. Woman is the child-bearer and child-rearer.... Man is provider of the necessities and comforts of the family. This does not reduce woman to a dependent. It [family life] is... A cooperative enterprise based upon a divinely ordained division of labor for forming, maintaining, and protecting the unit of society known as the family. The family must have organization. The man is by divine decree the head or presiding officer.... To him is committed the Priesthood... But the benefits and blessings of the Priesthood thus conferred are shared by the wife and, as needed, by every member of the family.... The highest blessings [available in the temple] are only conferred upon a man and woman jointly. Neither can receive them alone. If she [woman] accepts gladly the glorious gift of motherhood, she may use whatever time and strength remain in the exercise of her talents.... The privilege of self-expression belongs to her.... She may enter industry, education, the professions — every worthwhile pursuit with the good will of all. Dr. Widtsoe continues, "Divinely commissioned, in her keeping are the choice spirits who have come to earth to win an earthly body. In her hands lies the future of the race" (Relief Society Magazine, June-July, 1943, pp. 372-375). This was new doctrine, greatly at variance with prevailing beliefs in the early part of the nineteenth century. In 1830 when the Church was organized, there came a startling innovation for woman when she was granted by the Church the religious vote. Through revelation, the Lord directed the Prophet, Oliver Cowdery, and John Whitmer: "And all things shall be done by common consent in the church..." (D&C 26:2). We remind ourselves that, in 1830, no woman and few men voted in any church body, and no woman had political franchise. In 1842, the work of the women in building the kingdom having been accepted of the Lord as testified by the Prophet when he said, "your offerings are accepted of the Lord," the women were given by the Lord through the Prophet an organization established according to the laws of heaven—The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, now known as the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. This organization was the medium through which women might express themselves, find opportunity for personal development and service, and more effectively do the women's part in building the kingdom. At an early meeting of the Society in Nauvoo, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared: I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads (DHC IV, page 607). According to Elder Bruce R. McConkie in an article published in the Relief Society Magazine: By turning the key [in behalf of women] the Prophet delegated to the duly appointed officers of the new organization a portion of the keys of the kingdom. Under the Priesthood they were now authorized to direct, control, and govern the affairs of the society... Under this appointment their lawful acts would be recognized by the Lord and he would work with them in the rolling forth of the kingdom in the sphere assigned to them (Relief Society Magazine, March, 1950, page 151). The significant statement by the Prophet with regard to turning the key in behalf of women is the foundation upon which an extensive educational program WOMAN ENNOBLED for women has been established and carried forward by Relief Society. The program includes, as expressed by President Lorenzo Snow, "a study of those subjects which tend toward the elevation and advancement of women along all lines of thought and action." This statement is also the basis for the Society's benevolent activities. That our pioneer women caught the vision and the implications of all the privileges outlined for woman in the gospel plan is abundantly evident. That they sensed their responsibility to disseminate these truths is also apparent. Their pioneer publication bore the title, Woman's Exponent — exponent meaning expounder, interpreter, champion, representative. On the front page of the publication, directly under the name, was the caption, "The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of All Nations." The organization of Relief Society with the significant pronouncement of turning the key in behalf of woman preceded, by six years, the first public declaration made by women demanding equal social, industrial, educational, and political rights—a declaration issued at the Seneca Falls Convention called by a small but determined body of women known as the National. Woman's Suffrage Association. This declaration is generally regarded in the United States as the beginning of the so-called woman's movement—a movement that has gained momentum with each passing year until, today, women may be found in almost every field of human endeavor, and in most nations they 807 NOVEMBER 1966 are a power to be recpgnized in national life. In the struggle of woman for emancipation, woman suffrage and the right to hold public office have been prime goals. Utah women were early granted suffrage. Even in the territorial days they enjoyed the elective franchise. They played a conspicuous part in the national woman's suffrage movement in the United States which culminated in the adoption of the nineteenth amendment to the Constitution in 1920, granting women of this nation full suffrage. The struggle for suffrage still goes on in a number of countries; a few have recently won these rights. In May of this year, Sister Florence Jacobsen, President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and I attended a conference of the International Council of Women as voting delegates from the National Council of Women of the United States. The conference was held in Teheran, Iran, at the invitation of the Princess Ashraf, twin sister of the Shah and President of the High Council of Women of Iran. The conference was held in Jran in recognition of Iranian women having been granted suffrage in 1963. It was in 1936 that these women were unveiled. We were given to understand that the Shah regards the liberation of women as one of his major programs designed to advance and modernize this ancient nation and to promote the well-being of its people. An interesting experience was mine during this conference. An Iranian woman who was a member of the Parliament of that country sought me out. She told me of her long, arduous efforts in behalf of liberation for the Iranian women. She _ explained that, in the beginning, she had little knowledge of how to proceed in working toward suffrage, so she made extensive studies of the movement in other countries. In so doing, she learned of the leadership Utah women had given to this cause. She had written a book, she said, in which she made reference to their work. Then handing me her card, she invited me to correspond with her "for," said she, "women who were so forward looking in gaining suffrage as were Utah women must have something to offer by way of its proper use. Liberation calls for responsible action." How right she is! It is not easy properly to use freedom. Righteous principles and sound guidelines must be followed. While her emancipation has brought to woman endless opportunities and advantages, it has not left her devoid of problems. In her zeal for expression and freedom, we find her all too often developing attitudes, expressing opinions, engaging in activities and seeking goals that are not in the interest of her ultimate best good nor in harmony with her feminine nature or her earthly mission. Rather than striving for the realization of her full potential as a woman, we see her all too often in competition with man, aping his behavior, his habits, even his dress and general appearance. We see her somewhat insensitive to her primary role as his companion and helpmeet, the guardian of his home, the guide and protector of the spirits entrusted to the home. We see her inclined to disregard his role as head of the household in righteousness. The demands of modern life entice, if not force, many women to engage in activities outside their homes, particularly activities of the labor market. To engage capably in these activities and at the same time competently meet the requirements of the home and family and to maintain a poised balance in dealing with the responsibilities of life, test the greatest powers of judgment and organizational ability, home management, and physical, spiritual, and mental strength. These women must continually ask themselves which of all our multitudinous responsibilities have first claim upon us? An article in a national magazine recently reminded women that human beings have remained human because there were women whose duty it was to provide continuity in their lives—to be there when they went to sleep and when they woke up, to ease pain, to sympathize with failure and rejoice in success, to listen to tales of broken hearts, to soothe and support and sustain and stimulate husbands and sons as they faced the vicissitudes of a hard outside world. Throughout history, the article says, children have needed mothers, men have needed wives, the young, the sick, the old, the unhappy, the triumphantly victorious, have needed special individuals to share with them and care for them. They have needed women who see this as their primary work. It is troublesome to note that, at times, attributes, opinions, and actions of women today are WOMAN ENNOBLED inconsistent or at variance with their earnestly desired and worthy goals. For example, at the Iranian conference, speakers spoke feelingly of the need to build a stronger, more useful, and happier society. In order to accomplish this, they advocated more intensified effort toward community development which would allow better opportunities for women and children, who, in tum, would be able to make more significant contributions to a good society. At the same time, they advocated programs for community development that would take women more and more into community life and more and more away from their homes and their children, thus weakening the basic foundation of a good society and of useful, happy citizenship. Also, may we not question opinions such as this, expressed by a conference delegate, '"Women must learn to regard the period of child bearing and child rearing as temporary retirement from life''? I suggest that the time has come when woman might with profit evaluate the direction emancipation is taking her, assess the values which motivate her views and actions, and endeavor. More earnestly to seek out truth as it relates to the proper uses of her God-given freedom. To stem the tide of error, to alter confused thinking and modify improper action on the part of women will require strong and intelligent leadership. Upon whom rests the burden of this responsibility? Certainly upon those to whom the Lord has revealed his plan and purposes for 809 NOVEMBER 1966 womankind. In my opinion, it rests upon the shoulders of Latter-day Saint women. — Can Latter-day Saint women meet this responsibility? Of course they can! They have the truth, the daily guidance of the prophets, the Relief Society as the medium through which to work. They may do it by the example of their lives, by refusing to succumb to the pressures and fashions of the day. They may do it by their teachings. It is not usually necessary nor advisable to crash head-on with opposing forces, but by clear and measured thinking, by courageous and patient teaching, by example and persuasion, they may point the way. Sister Jacobsen did this with marked influence at the Iranian conference in the section on Youth and Family Life. Also, I saw action swayed by positions which I took in harmony with Church teachings, in the section on Moral and Social Welfare. I have seen sisters in the stakes and missions of the Church influence actions aright because of the strength of their testimonies and their sensitiveness to their many responsbilities as Latterday Saint women. The world is full of good women seeking the right way, ready to accept truth when it is presented to them with clarity and conviction, devoid of criticism, and when one's own actions give credence to her words. May the Lord give to the women of the Church today the vision to see themselves as the woman's exponent, dedicated to the use of her freedoms according to divine mandate. BY FAITH ALONE Eva Willes Wangsgaard The small, undoubting swallows make A pilgrimage | cannot take. Though | should find a spot and lie Upon the grass, beneath the sky, Where once |! Lay to think things through, The grass, as green, the sky as blue; Too many blundering winds have blown Away my sky. This grass has known Too many warring suns and. Shades, Too many browned and withered blades, To be the same in root or spear.. Mine not the same heart, eye, nor ear: How well | learned no woman follows The pure philosophy of swallows! a Sa« y $y. R Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] @ At a quarterly conference last summer, I was very much impressed with a statement made by a mission president. He said that three-quarters of the converts made in his 'mission said that they knew the gospel was true the first time they heard it. Many thoughts have gone through my mind as I have pondered this. I thought of the testimonies possessed by the missionaries and their words of truth which had pierced the hearts of strangers, united with the light of Christ given to every man, and, by a means of which we know nothing, formed a testimony. This had great meaning to me in this day when men declare that God is dead. I thought of the words "Where much is given, much is expected." I thought of words spoken to Relief Society members by the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842, "After this instruction, you will be responsible for your own sins." I thought of the weight of responsibility on Relief Society members to be a force in testifying of their knowledge that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. I feel that each of us, as a Relief Society member, needs to search her own heart to ascertain NOVEMBER 1966 just how strong is hey testimony, then to pray, study, and perform works which will steadily strengthen it. Some who are converts know how they struggled and sacrificed to obtain a testimony. Others who are born in the Church know what they had to do for their testimony, and still others seem to have brought their testimonies with them from. The premortal life. We do not know entirely why it is easier for some to obtain a testimony than others—that knowledge belongs to the Lord—but we do know that with our free agency, it is the responsibility of every Relief Society member to save herself, as the Prophet said, and each one of us must gain and keep strong her testimony of the gospel if she would be exalted. Of what does this testimony consist? A knowledge that God is our Father and that Jesus Christ, his Son in the spirit world as well as in this world, is the Christ, our Redeemer, our Advocate with the Father. The testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel is an. Adjunct to this knowledge. With every fiber of our beings, we need to know the truth of the words of the Savior, "I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me" (John 14:6). You hear some women say, "Oh, I wish I had lived in the days of the Savior. If I had seen him and the miracles he performed, it would be easy to believe in him." Sister Spafford had an important assignment last spring which took her around the world. She made a very significant state- 812 ment in reporting her experiences when she said, "There are miracles today and the greatest miracle is how the gospel changes people." A woman living today can witness and experience the same miracle she would have experienced when the Savior was on earth—the miracle of changing her own soul through filling it with the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ. Nor is this knowledge a static thing. It grows or it withers. Time permits the mention of only a few attributes which we, as Latter-day Saint women, must cultivate if we would have our testimonies grow and _ increase. These attributes, among others, are delineated for us by the Savior in the scriptures. Modern day prophets constantly exhort us to live them today. The Latter-day Saint woman will cultivate faith such as the Greek woman had when Jesus promised her, "O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt" (Matt. 15:28). The Latter-day Saint woman will sacrifice, as Jesus admonished, "No man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God" (Luke 9:62). The Latter-day Saint woman will recognize true greatness. "Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven" (Matt. 18:4). The Latter-day Saint woman will be humble in the estimation of her own knowledge at this time when men exalt themselves and say God is dead. In her humility she recalls the question of the Lord to Job, ''Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?" (Job 38:2). The Latter-day Saint woman will seek cultural refinement, seek to bring. Into her life a heightened appreciation for the beauties of creation and her own responsibility to create beauty around her. "Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates" (Proverbs 31:31).: The Latter-day Saint woman will possess love. '"'He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love" (I John 4:8). The Latter-day Saint woman will study the life of the Savior. In seeking to enlarge her love for him, she reads, "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14:15). "Keep my commandments," only three words but how difficult to obey. How hard, at times, to exercise love in one's relations with others, how hard to be patient, to be understanding, and obedient. How easy to have one's feelings hurt, to feel unappreciated, to feel unjustly treated. Sorrow, pain, suffering come. The rock on which each Latterday Saint woman must stand to overcome the cares of the world is the strength of her own testimony. "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life' (John 3:16). Jesus Christ so loved us that he took upon himself the sins of the world and, in agony, called upon his Father in Gethsemane, -in the words of President Clark, "NONE OTHER NAME" "for aid to the fulfilling of his mission—the making of the great atonement for Adam's fall" (On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, page 21), "and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground" (Luke 22:44). No wonder that we may only prevail as we love and worship Jesus Christ as the Son of God and our Savior, "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:12). I feel to search my soul to find out how much [I love the Savior; how much obedience to his commandments rules my thoughts and actions, how far I am from living the two great commandments. I acknowledge the power which Relief Society has had in my life to help me increase my talents, my knowledge, and my testimony. I know that our Heavenly Father is a loving, merciful Father who loves each one of us, for he is no respecter of persons. I know that Jesus Christ is his Son, and our Redeemer and Savior. I know that the gospel was restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that President McKay is the Prophet of the Lord today. I thank the Lord for my testimony—the most precious gift he has given me here upon the earth. May we all—Latter-day Saint women—search our own souls and strive unceasingly to increase our testimonies—the wellsprings of our lives, I pray. 813 Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] BI4 m@ "Every wise woman buildeth her house" (Proverbs 14:1). Whether that house is a stately mansion or a hovel depends on her who builds it. If the foundation is firm, the walls strong, the roof tight against the elements, the windows shining, and the doors solid to withstand evil from without, she builds well. Faith, the first principle of the gospel, is the foundation of the house a wise woman builds for her soul. According to the scriptures, faith is implicit confidence and full trust in God, his being, his purposes, his words, and commandments. With such faith all doubt is removed, supplanted by complete assurance and knowledge of the way one's life should be directed. Faith is a gift of God, given to those who are prepared to receive it. It is so precious a gift that it is not bestowed just_for the asking, nor given to those who have not sought it. The Savior's question to Peter, "Whom say ye that I am?" was answered "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God" (Matt. 16:15- 16). "And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 16:17). Elder James E. Talmage states (Articles of Faith, page 99): Peter's faith had already shown its vitalizing power; it had caused him to forsake much that had been dear, to follow his Lord through persecution and suffering, and to put away worldliness with its fascinations for the sacrificing godliness which his faith made so desirable. This cumulative evidence of Peter's worthiness made possible the gift of faith. That faith is greater than _ knowledge is attested by the fact that as Jesus went about he was frequently accosted by those possessed of evil spirits who "when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God" (Mark 3:11). Satan himself knows, yet with his knowledge he is Satan still. His knowledge has not impelled him to be righteous, to obey the Lord's commandments, to forsake evil. Faith is an impelling force which leads to action. This motivating power makes faith greater than knowledge or belief which are passive. How greatly we need protection from the evils of our day! Faith protects. Alma _ taught, "Now ye see that this is the true faith of God; yea, ye see that God will support, and keep, and preserve us, so long as we are faithful unto him, and unto our faith, and our religion; and never will the Lord suffer that we shall be destroyed except we should fall into transgression and deny our faith" (Alma 44:4). Faith is a power in prayer. The angel of the Lord who appeared to Alma and the sons of Mosiah to effect their miraculous conversion told them that the Lord had heard the prayers of his people and of the elder Alma because they had prayed with much faith. "For this purpose have I come to convince thee of the power and authority of God, that the prayers of his servants might be answered according to their faith" (Mosiah 27:14). Faith is a power in righteous living, an "anchor to the souls of men, which would make EVERY WISE WOMAN them sure and steadfast, always abounding in good works, being led to glorify God" (Ether 12: 4). Those who do not have faith feel little obligation to obey and live righteously. _ Why do we speak of faith? Why do we urge the sisters to acquire greater faith? Why do we endeavor to teach them the meaning of faith and the necessity of building the inner resources which guide their lives? Because we are concerned that every woman shall attain exaltation. Because we in Relief Society are charged with the responsibility of teaching, exhorting, persuading and leading the sisters with loving compassion. Because Relief Society is to save souls, and perfect faith in the Holy One is necessary for salvation in the kingdom of God. Relief Society numbers thousands and thousands of women. Its greatness lies in its influence on each individual woman. "No man is wise enough by himself," we are told (Plautus). No woman has such great wisdom that she cannot profit from the help of others in strengthening her faith. "Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands" (Proverbs 14:1). Every foolish or sinful act, every lost opportunity to serve, every weakening to temptation, every acceptance of evil is as though the foolish woman willfully weakens the foundation of her house, removes bricks from the walls, neglects leaks in the roof, blurs the shining windows, and opens the door for evil to enter in. The house she builds in which her soul will dwell is beautiful, firm and strong, or not, according to her faith and works. 815 Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] @ As most of you know, a regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference is a brief report of the status of the organization taken from the most recent annual report, together with a few official instructions, recommendations, and perhaps a few cautions with regard to the conduct of Relief Society work. SECRETARY-TREASURERS—NEW REPORT FORMS The secretary-treasurers deserve commendation for the excellence of the 1965 reports. They contain a vast amount of factual information; they reflect a clear understanding on the part of secretaries of how properly to record activities. They were neatly and accurately prepared. 816 New record books will go into effect September 1, 1967, and will cover the period September 1, 1967, through August 31, 1968, inasmuch as September through August will then be regarded as the Relief Society year. There will be minor changes in the new forms which will be explained in the secretary-treasurers department of this conference. Presidents are urged to acquaint themselves with these changes through their secretary-treasurers. LEADERSHIP AND GENERAL ORGANIZATION STRENGTH Capable leadership is_ being given to the program of Relief Society by Relief Society presidents and other officers and class leaders in the stakes and wards, missions and branches of the Church. One hundred ninety thousand women hold leadership positions. Growth of the society in size and accomplishment is encouraging. Adherence to General Board regulations, high standards of performance, devoted service are the general characteristics of Relief Societies throughout the Church. As General Board members have traveled to stake quarterly conferences, opportunity has been afforded them, in some instances, to meet with mission Relief Society leaders. Achievements in the missions are heartening, acording to reports. MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Church-wide Relief Society membership at the close of 1965 was 286,820 — an increase of 12,000 over 1964. Average attendance at the regular Relief Society meetings was 108,195 — an increase over the previous year of more than 4,500 women. Reports indicate there are 6,662 stake, mission, district, ward, and branch Relief Society organizations located in 53 countries throughout the world. This is an increase of 131 organizations. RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAM The program of Relief Society which is affecting the lives of nearly 300,000 women is directed toward helping women to gain an understanding of the doctrines and principles of the gospel and to develop testimonies sufficiently strong so as to bring their daily conduct into harmony with Church teachings. The program aims to awaken Relief Society members to their responsibilities in caring for the sick, the aged, the homebound, and in ministering, as needed, to the bereaved, REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS the downtrodden, and disconsolate. It provides opportunity for women to develop their talents and enlarge upon their native endowments, and helps them to realize their full potential as women. It holds ever before them their divine mission as wives, mothers, and homemakers. Such a comprehensive program should enlist the active participation in Relief Society of every Latter-day Saint woman. None should feel justified in not holding membership in Relief Society regardless of what other responsibilities she may carry in the Church. COMPASSIONATE AND CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES The spirit of the gospel is a spirit of selfless service, and this is exemplified in the compassionate service program. Reports bear record that Relief Society sisters gave over 29,000 eight-hour days bedside nursing care to the sick during 1965. There were approximately 400,000 visits to the sick and homebound, and approximately 700,000 hours of other types of compassionate service. Over 800 bodies were dressed for burial and assistance was given at more than 10,000 funerals. In reference to the care of the sick, it seems appropriate to remind you that as the life span is lengthened, disabling, but not necessarily terminal diseases, often attack older people. They seem to become prime targets for such cripplers as_ stroke, heart disease, cancer, emphysema, and arthritis. Many of them become accident prone and are victims of broken hips and other broken bones. Accidents, particularly highway accidents, 817 NOVEMBER 1966 add to the list of the chronically disabled. Nursing care for such people is posing one of the serious health-care problems of our day. While hospitals provide primary care, long days of caring for the patient in the home setting must usually be faced. Families are often strained to the breaking point. In view of this, it seems appropriate to suggest that classes in home nursing be conducted by Relief Societies where 'such programs are feasible and where home nursing courses are available. We also urge Relief Society presidents to become knowledgeable regarding available nurse training programs for both practical and registered nurses. Our own Brigham Young University offers a four-year baccalaureate course and a two-year associate degree course. Where you know of a woman with nursing aptitude who may be in a position to avail herself of nurse training, encourage her to do so. Relief Society sisters continue their services to the Church Welfare program, as directed by their respective bishops. There were 110,000. Family visits made during 1965 with 87,000 other contacts with families receiving assistance. There were 55,000 Relief Society members who assisted on Welfare projects and approximately 750,- 000 hours were contributed by women to these projects. COURSES OF STUDY Courses of study taught by 24,- 000 class leaders deal with subjects that truly tend toward the elevation and advancement of women, and direct their thinking, mold their attitudes, and influence their actions along Churchapproved lines. In harmony with the correlation program, the lessons for the coming year are being prepared so they may be presented in such a way that every sister at Relief Society will become involved in the discussions. The titles of the courses beginning in October 1966, reflect the concept of involvement. Theology is now designated Spiritual Living; Work meeting— Homemaking; Social Science — Social Relations; Literature, which will include some music and art, has taken on a new depth and will become Cultural Refinement. The General Board feels that there is being offered to Relief Society members through the Priesthood - coordinated courses of study an unusually valuable educational program. For the past two years special lessons prepared for Relief Societies requiring simplified _courses of study, and originally issued as "Lessons for Indian Relief Societies," have been issued by the General Board. Volume 3 is now available through the General Board, office, price $2 postpaid. These lessons are a continuation of the courses of study contained in Volume 2 as follows: Lessons From The Book of Mormon; Latter-day Saint Church History; Gems of Truth From The Book of Mormon; Development Through Homemaking Education; 'Teaching the Gospel in the Home (three lessons); and On Earth and In Heaven (five lessons). Volume 1 "Lessons for Indian Relief Sccieties" ($1.25) and Volume 2 "Special Lessons for Relief Society" ($1.75) continue to be available. HOMEMAKING PROGRAM The homemaking program is one of Relief Society's attractive programs with the homemaking meeting continuing as the second best attended meeting. Last year there were 1,300,000 articles completed during this meeting. Of this number, nearly 800,000 were sewed articles with 175,000 being wearing apparel for men, women, and children. This is an excellent record of practical accomplishment. We caution you to hold the homemaking discussions within the recommended time. The homemaking meeting must allow time for the women to actively engage in learning homemaking skills and to see demonstrations of homemaking activities. It is also felt that effort must be made to preserve the informal social atmosphere of the day. Relative to the homemaking program, we call to your attention the following statement from the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions, page 97: The service of a professional person from outside the Society is sometimes enlisted by Relief Society officers in furthering certain aspects of the work meeting program. Professional help is valuable in training the women in some special homemaking activities; however, such professional persons should not independently plan the.... Meeting activities nor should they use the meeting to promote their own homemaking programs in substitution for programs planned by Relief Society officers assigned this responsibility. Professional persons from outside the organization who assist in the homemaking program should not be authorized to call meetings in the name of the Society nor to initiate or conduct REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS projects or programs involving Relief Society. Such matters are the jurisdiction of the Relief Society president. Relief Society is so organized that~> authoritative procedures must be _ respected. Responsibility for safeguarding the time, talent, and energies of Relief Society members, as such, rests with the Relief Society president and should not be relinquished to others regardless of their competency or professional standing. RELIEF SOCIETY PUBLICATIONS 1. Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine (English edition) which, at the end of 1965, had a paid circulation of 241,276—an increase of 9,345—is an important asset to our educational program, making available to the general membership the basic lesson material, thus promoting involvement of the members in class discussions. This, of course, is only one of the many educational values of the publication. 2. Magazine in Spanish We are delighted with the response of the Spanish-speaking sisters to the Magazine in the Spanish language. We are advised that the Spanish-speaking group of sisters is second in number to the English-speaking group. The first edition of the Spanish Magazine came from the press in June of this year. 3. Magazine Honor Roll A change is being made in the annual Magazine subscription report which is to be submitted at the end of the year. This year (1966) stake Magazine representatives will not be required to submit a report of the number of members enrolled and the num- 819 NOVEMBER 1966 ber of subscriptions obtained during the year in the respective wards of their stake. Following November 15, a report will be sent by the General Board office to each stake Relief Society president for distribution to the stake Magazine representative, listing the number of members enrolled January 1, 1966 in each of the wards of the stake as indicated on the organization's annual report, together with a list of the subscription orders that have been received in the General Board office during the year and the number of subscriptions listed on each order. Stake Magazine representatives will be requested to check the report with the ward representatives and to report any discrepancies to the General Board office. They will also be requested to send a list of the names and addresses of the ward representatives. It will be necessary for this information to reach the General Board office not later than January 10. A delay may make it necessary to eliminate the stake from the Honor Roll. Upon receipt of this information, any necessary changes in either the number of members enrolled or the number of subscriptions will be made in the records at the General Board Magazine department and the percentages will be computed there and the Honor Roll compiled. Further details will accompany the report forms that will be sent to you. We feel this procedure will result in more accurate percentages and save the time of stake Magazine representatives. It will eliminate a great deal of correspondence that has been necessary in the Magazine de- 820 partment in the past concerning errors in the reports submitted to the General Board office. 4. History of Relief Society to be issued. We are pleased to announce that it is anticipated that a pictorial history of Relief Society covering the period 1842-1966 will be ready for distribution before the end of the year. It will contain a running history of the Society similar to that contained in the Centenary of Relief Society, together with sections giving more detailed information relative to the various programs and activities engaged in by Relief Society in the 124 years of its life. You will be advised later as to the exact date of the availability of the history, the price, and how and where to obtain it. FINANCIAL STATUS OF RELIEF SOCIETIES Reports indicate that Relief Societies, with rare exceptions, are in good financial condition. We especially commend the stake boards for their resourcefulness in maintaining themselves financially since garment earnings no longer accrue to Relief Society. It has been excellent training for the sisters and a source of great satisfaction to them through the years to. Have been able independently to finance their respective Relief Societies, thus justifying the confidence placed in them by the First Presidency in ruling that they do not go on Church budgets. VISITING TEACHING A vast corps of more than 125,000 visiting teachers continue the devoted service started in Nauvoo of visiting Latter-day Saint families "to search out the poor and suffering." Visiting teachers also convey a spiritual message based on_ scriptural truths. In excess of 4,500,000 visits were made during 1965— a marvelous record. We call attention to the importance of the oral reports being given in the visiting teacher meeting. We understand that in some instances presidents have discontinued oral reports, feeling that the present emphasis being placed on the confidential reports eliminated a need for the oral reports. Confidential reports in no way reduce the need for the oral reports. SINGING MOTHERS Singing Mothers choruses increased during 1965 by 112, making a total of 3,225 with over 44,000 sisters participating. The singing at quarterly conferences has been good, according to reports of General Board members. A number of special invitations to sing at important national events have been extended to certain stakes. We caution conductors, however, to use judgment in the number, and timing of rehearsals. Frequent and poorly timed rehearsals which work a hardship upon chorus members or which take them away from regularly scheduled Relief Society or Church activities could destroy the spirit and interfere with the ultimate success of the program. MERCHANDISING OPERATIONS DISAPPROVED We call your attention to an item in the Priesthood Bulletin of May-June, 1966, as follows: Stakes, wards, priesthood quorums or other Church units or organizations REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS are not to engage, as such, in merchandising operations for private gain of individuals. Neither are they to circularize the Church or large parts of it in an attempt to augment building or other funds through the sale of pamphlets, articles of merchandise, pictures of historic monuments or events, and the like. Units of the Church are requested not to solicit funds in other Church units outside of their own jurisdiction. AFFILIATIONS A number of requests have been received by the General Board for guidance as to whether Relief Society should affiliate as enrolled members with community organizations. The General Board does not endorse such affiliations. The General Board of Relief Society, which is the governing body of Relief Society internationally, holds membership in the National Council of Women of the United States. By virtue of this membership, it is an affiliate of the International Council of Women, and is usually represented at conferences of the International Council of Women. The General Board regularly sends a representative to the United States Council of Women conferences. In this way, Relief Society makes its contribution to the thinking and action of organized women of the free world. In turn, there is disseminated through the General Board such viewpoints and information from the councils as would be of value to the stake and mission Relief Societies. The General Board feels that Relief Society officers do not have the right to involve Relief Society members, as such, either directly or indirectly, in the work of other organizations through affiliation with such organiza- §21 NOVEMBER 1966 tions. What the sisters do as individuals, of course, is their own responsibility. Relief Society officers may call upon the time and talents of Relief Society women for the work of Relief Society since the sisters have voluntarily joined Relief Society and must expect to make their contribution to it; but we do not feel that officers are justified in diverting the time and talents of Relief Society members to the service of other organizations. THE SECOND MILE Sisters, in your love for one another, in your love for the Church, and in your love for those who need you, be unafraid to go the second mile; but measure your labors according to your strengths and your resources. Do not let your enthusiasm outrun your judgment. Let responsibilities be shared by all, and let your labors be confined to the sphere assigned to Relief Society as an auxiliary of the Church. FIRST THINGS FIRST Christie Lund Coles The party indeed has been lovely: The music, the program, the friends; Your garden is truly enchanting Just see how that willow tree bends. | do dislike having to leave you, But must rush to another affair: A small girl's birthday party, Incomplete without Grandma there. CHILDREN GO LEAPING Lael W. Hill Children go leaping through piled-up places: Summer-hot hay takes the bare browned feet And cows turn inscrutable, soft-eyed faces Toward the young shouts that repeat... Repeat Children leap into the madcap weather October-blown crimson and whisper brown | Where pocket-cheeked squirrels chatter together And leaves are raked up to be reveled down. Youngsters plump-bundled in winter's wrappings Hurl themselves into drifthills of snow, And sparrows startle from twig-thin nappings Away from the mitten-flung white below.... Warm days again—and the children go leaping Through piled-up hours of sun grown bright. Through hillocks of clover, and blue air, keeping Laughter quick-winging and blossom light. 822 COYOTE — Peggy Tangren A cry— A wild cry Exultant as a canyon wind, Defiant as an unleashed storm. Following the dark journey of my sleep Came the howl of a coyote, Nudging me into breathless hearing. She was on the cliff above the river. This was no awful cry,. No summons to the kill, No mourning for a mate. With head flung high she filled the night, Echoing howls still sounding down the ages, While hurling a challenge to eternity With all her being, Free and unafraid. And | heard. Sheep on their bedground heard, Stirring uneasily. | drifted down again to sleep-filled places. Back in her cave she licked her puppies' faces., Jr. Zion Canyon, from the collection of President J. Reuben Clark EDITORIAL Volume 53 November 1966 Number 11 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Eltiott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Etna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner B24 trene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind ' Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West i am the Light af 1 am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life (John 8:12). As we commemorate the birth of the Savior with the advent of Christmas and we read and reread the various scriptural accounts of the birth of Jesus, the actual and spiritual meanings of the '"'light'' become more apparent. Every sign which announced his birth signified the coming of the great light to the darkened world. Prophecies of the circumstances that would attend his birth contained references to lights appearing in the heavens as well as the "Light" which would come to lift the veil of darkness from the minds of men. According to Luke, as the angel of the Lord came upon the ''shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night.... The glory of the Lord shone round about them,'' while the angel announced the birth of the Savior and the multitude of angels sang "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men"' (Luke 2:8, 9, 14). Matthew tells of the bright new star which led the three wise men from the east, ''and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was"' (Matt. 2:9). the Wo rf ff -» "'When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy"' (Matt. 2:10). The new star, '"'such an one as ye never have beheld; and this also shall be a sign unto you,'' Samuel, the Lamanite prophet, told the people on the American Continent as he predicted the birth of the Savior. Helaman records that Samuel further prophesied that there would be "great lights in heaven, insomuch that in the night before he cometh there shall be no darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was day'' (Helaman 14:3). | Therefore, there shall be one day and a night and a day, as if it were one day and there were no night; and this shall be unto you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun and also of its setting... And it shall be the night before he is born (Helaman 14:4). The significance of the ''Light'' he brought into the world is even more marked when the contrast of the impenetrable darkness which covered the earth during his crucifixion is noted. But behold, as | said unto you concerning another sign, a sign of his death, behold, in that day that he shall suffer death the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto you; and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall rise again from the dead (Helaman 14:20). Great destruction accompanied the fearsome and oppressive darkness. Nothing could have more clearly or forcibly illustrated the condition of those who do not believe on him and must walk in darkness. What could be more plain or more graphically illustrated? | John states: ''In him [Christ] was life; and the life was the light of men.'' He speaks, also, of John the Baptist who "'was... Sent. To bear witness of the Light.... That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world'' (John 1: 4, 7, 9). Light represents all that is good and true, the gospel and the plan of salvation. The Light of Christ is love, it embodies faith, hope, and charity. It is all that is clean and pure and righteous. Perhaps there-is a significance of light at Christmastime that has deeper meaning than a casual observer may feel. Do we need the reminder this early before the Christmas season that we have a part in keeping this marvelous light alive, that he has entrusted his Church with the responsibilities of carrying his light to the souls of them who walk in darkness? Surely the brightly lighted Christmas world can help us remember that with the birth of the Savior light and hope and salvation came to man. As you place Christmas lights in your homes and see them in your cities, contemplate on the blessings coming from the "Light of the world,'' and ponder them in your hearts. —L. W. M. 825 "Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Ellen C. Henderson, eighty-three, a native Utahn, has finished a year's service with VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America) in Las Vegas, Nevada, and is now teaching in New York City. Teaching children and illiterate adults to read is her specialty. Several books written by her on this subject have been used in schools in various States of the Union, and one, of which she is co-author, is recently off the press. Mrs. Henderson, one of the earliest instructors in speech therapy at the University of Utah, taught at the Indian School at Brigham City, Utah, for seven years. Dr. Virginia Apgar is Director of the Division of Congenital Malformations, of the National Foundation — March of Dimes; also Honorary Fellow, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. She stresses the fact that the pregnant woman takes care of her baby by taking care of herself. Miss Lenore Tawney, a former sculptress, of New York, is an outstanding figure in the American handcraft revival. She weaves shimmering fabrics, principally of black and _ uncolored fibers, using yarns of varying textures and densities, to achieve a sculpturelike effect in her weaving. The suspended bamboo rods, over which she divides her yarn, remain part of the finished product, which may also incorporate some pigeon feathers and fish bones. These are used as wall hangings, and are very beautiful. Diane Erickson, wife of a schoolteacher at Anchor Point, on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, and mother of three children, has won recognition as a painter of Alaska's rugged mountains and ''wild blue waters.'' Her work has been displayed at many exhibits and acclaimed as presenting with grandeur 'fone part of the earth as it was when God created it."' Phyllis S. Peterson, mother of two children, a stockbroker and partner in the firm of Sayd & Company, Washington, D. C., is one of two women ever to be members of the American Stock Exchange in its 116 years of history. The other woman was Julia Montgomery Walsh, a general partner in Ferris and Company, also of Washington. Marty Mann is director of the United States Council on Alcoholism. An important part of her work is to plan and supervise organizations and _ institutions which endeavor to rehabilitate alcoholics, and to prevent teenagers from becoming alcoholics. Carol Beery Davis, wife of Trevor Davis, famous Alaskan photographer, and a graduate in music from the University of Washington, has been a remarkably. Successful music teacher in Juneau, Alaska, for many years. Recently the Juneau-Douglas Concert Association established a music scholarship in her honor. Her booklet ''Songs of the Totem,'' is composed of the haunting melodies of the Tlingit Indians. Three of Mrs. Davis' four daughters are distinguished musicians. Dorothy J. Roberts SHINING AFTERMATH Kathryn Kay In much the way a rainbow follows rain, there is a shining aftermath to Pain. As dawn, dark's afterwards, lights up the skies so inner radiance can brighten eyes. 1 will not weep nor fear the winter frost, fresh green and fragile bloom are worth the cost. | know there is no grief which cold can bring which will not have its epilogue of spring. 827 inside ard oul WHERE iS THE CHILD? Annie Atkin Tanner Autumn is the fulfillment of summer. The days breathe the warm sunshine And night replenishes each growing vine, The robins welcome the early morning And children play until the twilight dims. 1, too, would seek fulfillment Of the hopes and dreams | had When life was new, And the wind and the terra-cotta hills And the river meandering through the blooming fi Seemed to make my world an enchanted valley. Where is the child who reached for a star And saw castles in the sunsets, In the days that are no more? Courtesy Corn Products Refining Company Make Christmas Cookies Early Alice P. Willardson Christmas cookies will recall an old-fashioned Christmas, and there is nothing children love to do more than making and decorating cookies, unless it is eating them. Let them help you one of those days when it is cold and gray outside. You'll find the sun shining right in your kitchen! It is fun to cut cookies in the shape of Mother Goose rhyme folks and other storybook characters. First, collect and prepare the patterns. Children's coloring books provide animals, clowns, dolls, and toys, of simple outline. Trace, then cut these from strong paper. Eliminate all small details, place pattern, and cut from dough with a sharp knife. Pictures showing the object in silhouette are the most successful. Below is an excellent recipe for wholesome plain cookies to cut into shapes. AUNT DELLA'S COOKIES 1 c. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder v2 c. Shortening ey c. Na egg 4 c. Flour 1% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla Cream sugar and shortening, add beaten egg, salt, and flavoring. Add milk. Sift baking powder with flour and add gradually to liquid mixture. Form into ball of dough without undue handling. Place on floured board and roll to about 1% inch in thickness. Cut with available cookie cutters or use these suggestions for variety. Bake until brown (10 to 15 min.) in 400 degree oven. MAKE CHRISTMAS COOKIES EARLY Part of the fun of making cookies is sharing them with others. For those little friends who live near you, you can put a lace doily on a colored paper plate, arrange the cookies, and use another doily to cover them. Make it all secure with a pretty Christmas ribbon. But the best way is to pack the cookies in transparent plastic boxes or cover boxes you have with adhesive backed decorator paper. When tied with ribbons and a sprig of holly, evergreen, or a poinsettia, they are beautiful. These little packages make lovely gifts to take to Grandma, to the neighbors, the homebound, cousins, or friends, and the children are proud to deliver them, especially when they had a hand in making them. FOUR A. M. SIREN Dorothy J. Roberts A four a. M. Siren slices the pre-dawn silence With the scream of — death or birth. It is birth | prefer to dream of — Prone and peaceful, drifting back into the calm. Birth and the velvet fingers, curling, And the daisy-chain of childhood in the palm. GOING SOMEWHERE Linda L. Clarke Where are you going my little lass With your brown and windblown hair? Are you walking alone or with the dove? Do you know you are going somewhere? The search is beginning, it's there in your eyes. The journey is long—this | know— But follow the song of the white dove, She flies to where all rivers flow. | long to walk here beside you, Your shield from all thistles and thorns, But the call, the song of the white dove, Bids you leave on your journey alone. Sing loud, sing clear, oh, white dove, For my lass with the hair of brown. Sing loud, sing clear and tead her To the place where all waters are bound. 831 Comfort Your Baby Shirley Thulin @ Here is an idea so attractive and inexpensive you will want to make one for every special baby in your life. This beautiful comforter and crib bumper (covering for the sides of the crib) can be made for less than a third of what you would pay for them at the stores, and are so serviceable and easy to do, you will be pleased with the results. All you need is one double bed sheet (81" x 108"), one large quiltsize batting, two packages of 114" white blanket binding, one package of white bias tape and one skein of white nylon yarn (for tying the tufts). The sheet should be of a pastel color. Yellow or pale green are pretty choices. If you choose dacron batting, rather than wool or cotton, the comforter will have more washability. If you already have some nylon yarn, it would not need to be all the same color. This would be a good project to use some of your odds and ends, as a sprinkling of colored yarn would add a decorative touch. Use only nylon, however, because wool will shrink and pull tight, spoiling the comforter. Be sure to unpick the hems and pre-wash your sheet, as many sheets shrink at least five inches with the 81" COMFORTER COMFORTER BOTTOM TOP 60" ow:. = =5 aE mon oe Oo 45" >| <- 45"; CRIB BUMPER TOP 14" <= 81" Je IK first washing. Also, remember that the stated size of the sheet is the size before it was hemmed at the factory. Now press the sheet and cut as in the diagram. The laundered sheet, with the hems ripped, will measure about 81" x 103". Next, mark with tiny pencil dots, on the comforter top, where the tufts will go. They should be about 4 inches apart. If you place the tufts in even rows 414" from the side edge and 4" from the top edge, this gives even spacing with rows of 10 tufts across the width of the comforter, and 14 tufts down the length. Now place two layers of batting between the top and bottom pieces of the comforter. If you don't have quilting frames, you can place the quilt on the carpeted floor to tuft it. Just place the bottom of the comforter on the floor first, then the two layers of the batting, then cover with the top piece of the comforter. Now thread a large needle with a length of yarn and, using double threads, 10. 9 make a running stitch, taking a stitch at every tufting mark of the entire quilt. Cut the yarn halfway between each stitch and tie (in a double knot) the ends to make a tuft. Now bind the entire comforter with blanket binding, being sure to miter the corners for neatness. To make the bumper, which is separate from the comforter, and which is used to protect the baby from getting his head through the bars, cut as in diagram and mark the tufting on the top piece, which is the 14" piece. The tuft marks should be 4" apart. Place a double layer of batting between the top and bottom and tuft as you did the comforter. Now fold the bumper down the long way, with tufts to the outside, making the bumper 80" long and 7" wide. Stitch the double edges all along, turning the raw edges under. This makes a nice, thick bumper. Now, with the bias tape, place ties, stitched securely, where needed to tie to crib corners. 833 Now let's sift 834 And Arrange Now mix Line Now sift a7) Jean Smith —— i Let's assemble all the ingredients for a happier you! We need 1 wonderful woman 2 tbsp. Of desire and lf of a delightful hour Special Features \ Fiction General Features The Home Lessons Poetry 1 day for Special Features From our General Board, spiritual inspiration and instructions are like treats from the cooker, served with tender, loving care. They are like blessings from heaven. Alternately, with Fiction and General Features. These include stories of love, faith, sorrow, and happiness, also getting acquainted with our sisters from Near and Far. A comfortable cozy home with favorite recipes, sewing, and clever hobbies for a good-natured family. Together into warm, eager hearts 4% cup of Spiritual Living 14 cup of Homemaking 14, cup of Social Relations And add 4 cup of Cultural Refinement Then fold only enough to blend well. For best results, add a little poetry. One little, two little, three smart cooks will Always be found with Relief Society books. Lt always pays off for the pains we exert, when After the main course, it's '"'What's for Dessert?"' Now, if you will take care in putting these ingredients together, they will yield a happier, better informed wife and mother, which is you. FLOWERS FOR WINTER Fay Ottesen "Mom," called my son one wintry day, "The flowers outside have all gone away. "You don't have any to set on your sink, So Ill make you some; I can, | think." He took his tinker toys, and worked with care, And made me some flowers; those wooden ones there. No flower in the world matches the beauty of those; No tulip, no orchid, no hyacinth nor rose. Illustration by the Author 835 Home for Thanksgiving Mabel Harmer @ Martha picked up the hammer and half a dozen nails and marched grimly towards' the fence. As she tried to fasten the board into place, a sharp gust of the November wind blew an end of her scarf across her face. She dropped the hammer and slipped the nails into her pocket while she retied the scarf, her irritation growing stronger with every move. "You!" she stormed at the pig, who seemed to be actually enjoying her frustration. "If you have to run away, why do you have to go to Jake Bolton's farm?" The question was purely academic, since the break in the fence led directly to the Bolton acres. She was just pounding the last nail into place when she was interrupted by the loud honking of an auto horn. She turned to 836 see Everett Mitchell grinning at her. "Hi, Aunt Matt! I'm sure glad that wasn't my head you were working on." "Next time it will be that pig's head," she retorted. '"'He seems to know that he could start a small war by going over to Jake Boltons." "You mean, he could make a small war bigger, don't you?" asked Everett. "I seem to remember that this feud between you and your good neighbor has been going on for some time now. Sort of like the Hatfields and McCoys, in a genteel way." "Well, it's all his fault," said Martha. "Just because I took my turn at the water from the ditch when he claimed it was his." "Yes, I remember," Everett nodded. 'You know something, Aunt Matt? Water fights have been going on for as long as history. It isn't only people who fight—individuals, I mean. States and even entire nations fight it out. Of course, it didn't help your neighborly relations any when your boy Rhon jilted Alice Bolton to marry that schoolteacher. I don't know as Alice fretted too much, but I'll bet a wooden nickle that Jake sure did." "You talk too much about matters of which you know nothing," said Martha sharply. "Was that what you came out here to say?" "Certainly not," Everett exclaimed. "This discussion got so interesting I almost forgot. Jim Hayward asked if I'd deliver this telegram. It's been in the office for two days. He also said that if you'd put in a telephone you'd get your messages a lot faster. Besides, you could listen to all the gossip on the party line and Martha ignored this last bit of flippancy as she tore open the telegram. "It's from Rhon," she said. "'He and the boys are all coming home for Thanksgiving. What's today?" "Wednesday. Are they getting in today or tomorrow?" "He didn't say. Just 'We'll be home for Thanksgiving.' Not even if they are driving, flying, or just walking." "Well, that's nice. I mean it's nice that you will have the boys here for Thanksgiving. Let's see —it's been a couple of years now since his wife died, hasn't it? How old are the boys?" "Six and eight. They're cute little shavers. Full of life as all get-out."' Martha's face softened as she smiled at the thoughts of HOME FOR THANKSGIVING her grandchildren. "They'd like for me to come to the city and live with them," she went on, "but I can't leave my place here. I tried it for a few months, but I couldn't make friends in the city. And all that noise and racket got on my nerves. So, as soon as Rhon could get a good housekeeper, I came back home again." "To enjoy yourself mending fences and chasing runaway porkers."' "I guess. That among other things," agreed Martha. "You can't walk out on the memories of a lifetime. Not very easily, anyway." "Shucks, you talk like an old woman. And you know you're not a day over seventy-five." "And you know that I'm not a day over fifty-five," Martha retorted. "Sure, I know that," laughed Everett. "Well, I'll run along. Have yourself a merry, merry... No, that's Christmas, isn't it? Well, have a happy Thanksgiving." He gunned his car and swooped out of the yard, sending chickens scattering in every direction. Martha watched him down the road with a half smile and went into the house. So, now what was she going to do? Here it was the day before Thanksgiving and not a morsel of holiday fare. Well, come to think of it, there was practically everything but a turkey. They'd have to make do with roast chickens this time. She would make pie crust and bake the pies first thing in the morning. They weren't fit to eat held over for a day. She could 837 NOVEMBER 1966 cook the pumpkin and get the filling all ready. There would be pickles, rolls, corn, peas, and plenty of mashed potatotes. Rhon never got too much of those. She would check the linen and - silver. My, it had been a long time since she'd had any occasion to bring them out! It would sure be wonderful to have her family home again — especially home for Thanksgiving. She was in the midst of cutting up pumpkin when another car drove into the yard. It was Alice Bolton and two youngsters. Why, it couldn't be! Yes, it was Eric and Timmy. She rushed out as they tumbled out of the car. "Grandma!" they cried. "We came all alone on the airplane!" She braced herself against the onslaught, and asked in bewilderment, "How.?" "T picked them up at the airport," said Alice. "Rhon had a case in court and couldn't get away until tomorrow. He wasn't sure that he could get reservations for all three tomorrow, so he let the boys go on ahead." "Alone?" Martha repeated, taking their luggage. "Oh, yes, it's no problem," said Alice. "The stewardess looks after them and, once they're on the plane they can't get off until they reach their destination. It's much more sure than train or bus that way." "Well, thanks a lot," said Martha. "I hope it didn't put you out too much." "Not at all," was the cheerful reply. "Goodbye, boys. Come and see me." "We will," they called and started to run, each in a different direction. "Here! Wait a minute!" called 838 their grandmother. "Where are you going?" "To see the cow and the pigs and all the animals," answered Eric. '"That's mostly why we came." "Indeed," said their grandmother. ''Well, aren't you going to take off those good clothes first? On the farm we have to wear farm clothes." Reluctantly, they turned back and came into the house long enough to change their clothes, then they quickly rushed outdoors again. Martha turned back to her holiday tasks and felt her spirits rising by the moment. How good it would be to have Rhon and the boys home with her, if only for a few days. She had been alone so much and so long. She wished she knew how he had come to call Alice. She guessed there was nothing else he could do. Anyway, Alice was going to marry George Wilkins one of these days, probably. They had been keeping company long enough. Almost since Rhon left, in fact. And George was a good, steady fellow. A mite too steady, maybe, if there was such a thing. She put the pumpkin on the range to cook and went to the door to see if the boys were all right. Yes, there they were climbing among the branches of an apple tree, Well, that was safe enough. She'd let them feed the chickens when the time came. She brought up the jelly and canned peas from the basement. She wished that she had some cranberries and yams. They were almost as much a part of the dinner as the bird. But she didn't have any, and no way of getting any, unless she drove into town. She could make the bread stuffing and have that ready. She was about to call the boys when they came in of their own accord. "We're hungry," Timmy announced, 'so we'd like some cookies." "Dear me,' Martha exclaimed. "T haven't gotten around to baking them yet. We'll have to start right away." "Daddy said that you always had cookies," Eric insisted. "So I do—most of the time. And we'll have them as soon as I can make them. How about some bread and jam for right now?" "Okay," they agreed. She spread a thick slice for each and poured them a glass of milk. It seemed such a few years since Rhon had been asking the same question. In the midst of his snack, Timmy suddenly asked, '"'Can we see the turkey?" "Well, I didn't get a turkey," said his grandmother. ''You see, I didn't know you were coming. I don't have a telephone — but am sure going to have to get one. Some surprises I like, but not this kind." "Daddy said that you always got a turkey from Mr. Bolton," said Eric. HOME FOR THANKSGIVING "Yes — we did when he was a little boy. But this year we're going to have roast chicken for a change." "Why are we?" Eric went on. "Alice said that they have plenty of turkeys." "Yes, I suppose they have. But they aren't ours. I'm sure that you will enjoy the roast chicken. And, what's more, there will be a drumstick for each one of us. We'd only get part of one if we had a turkey." "Well, Daddy said that we always got a turkey from." "T know," his grandmother interrupted. "So we did when he was a little boy. But this year we aren't." Martha spoke in such a tone of voice as to settle the matter. She couldn't explain a quarrel between two people who had been neighbors for thirty years. Especially a quarrel over anything that seemed so trivial as to who should use the water on a certain day — even if nations did sometimes quarrel over the same thing. Later on she said, "Now we'll feed the chickens and after supper you can go upstairs and sleep in your daddy's room, where he slept as a little boy." "Will you read us a story first?" asked Timmy. ' "T surely will. I even have some of the books here that I read to Daddy when he was a little boy." She lit a fire in the grate and sat on the couch with a boy on each side, while she read stories. Then she tucked them into bed with such pleasure as she had almost forgotten was possible. As she settled down before the fire again, before going to her own 839 NOVEMBER 1966 room, she felt such a love for all mankind that she almost forgave Jake Bolton — but not quite. She did feel sorry for him, however. She knew that he had been greatly disappointed when Rhon and Alice broke up. And, as for that slow George, if he and Alice didn't get married pretty soon they would be too old to have much of a family. Jake would never be a grandparent, and he would be missing half the joy in life. Yes, she couldn't help feeling sorry for Jake. She went to bed still enveloped in a happy glow and a feeling of good will toward all men. Well, nearly all men. The next morning, she did the chores and stirred up batter for pancakes before going to awaken the boys. She called first and, when there was no answer, went upstairs. The bed was empty. What was more, their wraps were gone. "They must have slipped out while I was outside in the barn," she said. '"'Now, where in the world?" She went down again, trying to decide which way to look for them. She went first to the barn, almost sure that the boys would be visiting the animals. That was always their first pleasure on the farm. They were not in the barn. They were not in the chicken yard. They were nowhere that she could see. She called until she was almost hoarse. Then she went into the house and took down her whistle, used once in a while to summon the dog. Even he did not answer now. Wherever the boys had gone, he was with them. So much the better. Only, where had they gone? 840 She walked out to the road and looked both ways. She was trying to decide whether to get the car out and start traveling, or simply to go in the house and wait it out, when she saw them coming. They were struggling to carry something between them. She hurried on, but before she could reach them, she saw only too well what it was. They were bringing a turkey — small, but undeniably a live turkey. "'What in the wide world!" she gasped. 'Where did you get it?" "Over at Bolton's," replied Eric. "Daddy said that you always got your turkey at Bolton's." "That was long ago," said Martha sharply, "and we went over it all last night. Now we'll just have to get in the car and take it back." "But it's ours!" Timmy protested. "Mr. Bolton gave it to us." "We're going back," said Martha firmly. "Even if we keep the turkey we're going to pay for it right now." "All right. But it's ours and we're going to keep it," said Eric. His chin was set in a stubborn line that Martha recognized must be very much like her own. She backed the car out and filled it with boys, a live turkey and a dog. Then she headed down the road to the Bolton farm. Jake was out in the yard hauling some potatoes to the storage cellar. He set down the wheelbarrow and greeted the boys with a smile. "Didn't you give us the turkey?" Eric demanded. "Grandma says that we can't keep it." "Certainly I gave you the turkey," replied Jake. '"We'll just have to talk Grandma into letting you have it." Martha found it increasingly difficult to maintain a look of severity in the face of Jake's jovial manner. What had come over him all of a sudden? Didn't he remember that they hadn't been on friendly terms for years? Maybe he was just putting on a show for the boys. Well, she could play that game, too, just as well as he. "All right, we'll keep it," she agreed. "But I must pay you for it." She spoke so pleasantly that She hardly even knew her own voice. _ "There's not time to get that bird ready for dinner today," said Jake. "I've got one in the house all dressed and ready to shoot into the oven. You take that one home, and we'll save this one until next year. There'll be a lot more to him by then." He went into the house, after putting the live bird back into the fenced pen. While he was HOME FOR THANKSGIVING gone Martha sat thinking, how stupid for two grownup people to be at odds over anything so trivial as who used the water on Monday or Tuesday. Anyway, with all of her blessings, she ought to be kind and gracious to everyone on the face of the earth. She ought to be especially kind to Jake, who didn't have two fine grandsons, like hers, and possibly never would have. When he came out again and put the turkey on the seat beside her, she said, "Thank you very much. And I'll be glad to take the bird. But we want you and Alice to join us for dinner." Much to her surprise, Jake answered, ''Sure. We'll be over. We were planning on coming. Alice is going over to the city airport~to pick Rhon up at two, and I guess you'll want to have dinner soon after." "Yes," she nodded _ rather weakly. "That will be fine." She drove home quickly and went to work. The turkey was stuffed, rubbed with butter, and put into the oven. There was barely time now to get it done by two. Then she turned to the table, put in the extra leaves and set it for six. What a long time it had been since she could put a place on the table for more than one or two! Wat could she do for flowers? She solved that by cutting all the blossoms off from her geranium plants and. Putting them in a silver bowl. The boys were under her feet every minute "helping Grandma get dinner."' But even that was a joy. In fact, she was so filled with happiness she found it hard to understand. Was it just that her 841 NOVEMBER 1966 family was going to be with her again? It couldn't be because that silly old quarrel with Jake was over and done with? Or could it? Maybe it was a combination of everything pleasant. The boys had a mid-morning snack. They couldn't possibly wait until dinner, especially with the tempting odor of roasting turkey filling the kitchen. She, herself, was far too excited to think about food. The minute the boys heard the car in the driveway, they shouted, '"'Here's Daddy!" and rushed out to fling themselves at him as if it had been a year instead of a day since they had parted. Alice and her father stood by smiling until Rhon disentangled himself and came in the house to greet his mother. "Isn't this great, Mom!" he cried, kissing her soundly and lifting her off her feet in a bear hug. "Yes—yes, it certainly is,'"' she agreed somewhat breathlessly. "Take your things upstairs," she went on. "And you, Alice, put your coat and your father's in the front hall closet. Dinner will be ready right away." As soon as Alice had put their wraps away, she came out into the kitchen again and said, "I'm going to help. What shall I do first?" "You might cut up the apples for the Waldorf salad," replied Martha. "Here's an apron." She busied herself stirring the thickening in the gravy. How pleasant it was to have Alice helping in the kitchen. She wondered if there was anything now between her and Rhon, but didn't dare ask. Maybe this was only an_ interlude — a meeting just for B42 today, with no future plans. When everything else was on the table, Rhon came into the kitchen to get the turkey and carry it to the table. They bowed their heads as he said the prayer of thanksgiving. As Rhon began to carve the turkey, Eric shouted, "I speak for a drumstick." "Tf speak for the other one," echoed Timmy. "It would take you a week to eat one this size," said their father, "but you may have all that you can manage at this meal." The dinner was wonderful, and everyone seemed to be just as gay and relaxed as if this were an everyday affair — at least, an every holiday affair. Afterwards they went into the living room and played some records, low enough so that they could still carry on a conversation. Rhon and Alice sat side by side on the divan and Martha noticed that very shortly she had slipped her hand into his. A few minutes later, Eric announced, "Grandpa says that he'll take us on a hike to the cave tomorrow. Didn't you, Grandpa?" Martha caught her breath. Had it been a slip of a childish tongue, or something more? She looked at the happy faces about her. Of course, it was more. Well, if Jake was going to be grandpa to her own grandsons, it was a mighty good thing that there wasn't going to be any more bickering. She sighed with happiness and contentment. How blessed it was to have a family! To have that family come home for Thanksgiving. 2° om ne Mee es CM, "a, Seinitere: ¢ - on Sea tite, Myrtle John Portrays the Beauties of Nature in Handicraft Designs Myrtle John, Rupert, Idaho, is an artist with her crochet hook. Her beautifully designed and expertly crocheted articles reveal ""'petaled lace'' of exquisite texture and "'pointed Perfection."" The Original patterns for her doilies, afghans, tablecloths, and bedspreads have been requested by many women who admire handiCraft, and Sister John has freely given Patterns and detailed instructions to all have become "prideful coverlets'' in many homes. The pansy flowers are made in graduated tints of the same color and in striking patterns of yellow and ecru against rich blue and purple and dark burgundy color. The sheathed buds are cut from various shades of green, with slender stems, and the leaves have em- 843 Tell Me of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 5 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram asking her to fly home at once due to an emergency in the family. Her friend Betz Condon accompanies Julie. During a stopover in Fiji, Dan Fargo, a friend of Grandfather Ridgehaven, boards the plane, and Julie learns that her fiancé Ron McLazen is lost in the bush. Grandfather arranges an expedition to search for Ron, and Julie and Betz are members of the party. Julie observes that her cousin Wally Ridgehaven is very much interested in Betz, and her Aunt Isabelle is increasingly apprehensive over the prospect of a meeting with Dr. George whom she had once promised to marry. @ The airplane made a bumpy landing at the town aerodrome, really only a crude landing field scraped out of the bush. "Don't blame the pilot," Big Dan said to Aunt Isabelle. "He's a fine lad. He set this down as 844 gently as possible, considering the terrain." "I know!" She caught her breath. "It's always a rough landing out here, Big Dan. It's always bumpy. I counted on that." Julie knew Aunt Isabelle was talking to keep her courage high. She should save her strength for the ride to the station, she thought, as she walked close behind her and Big Dan. "Why don't I carry you piggyback, Aunt Isabelle?" Wally called to her. "That way you'll arrive in style." "It might shock the Aborigines," she answered, matching his banter. "They would think I should carry you, Baby Boy." Everyone laughed, but Julie noticed Aunt Isabelle's voice was tremulous. Julie looked anxiously at the crowd of townspeople and abos who always met the airplanes. They were dressed in brightcolored plaid shirts, denim or khaki trousers, and big hats. She saw a light blue and white plaid shirt like the one she had sent to Ron for his birthday. Her throat pinched in, but she lifted her head resolutely and scanned the crowd again. Where was Dr. George? Aunt Isabelle would wither away if he did not come to meet her. | At last she saw him, elbowing his way through the crowd. Big, wonderful Dr. George McGregor, ' tanned and rugged, with a smile that did not waver, even when he saw how pale and thin Aunt Isabelle was. Grandfather must have prepared him. He was impeccably groomed as a doctor should be even in this far country. His suit was dark and his shirt was white, but he did wear the customary wide hat. Aunt Isabelle waved to him, and Dr. George took off his hat, waving back to her; then he strode forward, and, for all the world to see, he put his arms around her and held her close against his kind, generous heart. "Hold it!" Wally called, running toward them carrying his camera. "I want a picture of Aunt Isabelle falling out of her bloomin' Ivory Tower!"' "Oh, George!" Aunt Isabelle's laugh was. A gay tinkle. "Give that boy a pill that will make him grow up." A huge brown and white kelpie came bounding toward Julie. Ron's dog, Casey Jones! She stooped and cuddled him, nuzzling her face in his warm, fluffy hair, so no one could see the tears she could not hold back. He whimpered against her, wriggling his whole body. When she stood up again he licked her hands and tugged at her skirt. TELL ME OF LOVE Then he whirled; circling around her, barking and tugging at her again. "That dog knows everything," Dr. George said. "He knew you were coming. He had me up at the crack of dawn, running back and forth, howling like a dingo." '"'What's a dingo?" Betz asked Wally. "A wild dog," he answered. "Like your coyotes. Only worse. We hate 'em out here."' The tension was broken. Everyone crowded into Dr George's long, comfortable car, bag and baggage, and started for the sta-— tion all talking at once. They were overjoyed to be with Dr. George again. He had been away for a long time. Betz, Julie noticed, was unusually quiet as she stared out of the window at the sunbaked country, thirsty for water. "You can even smell the dust," she said in a low voice to Julie. "Maybe it's sheep." Julie laughed. '"'That's your imagination. But every country does smell differently, Betz. Remember the ocean on the California beaches? All that seaweed had an odor." "T didn't notice it," Betz said. "T guess we're used to it." "That's the way it is," Julie went on. "We get used to the way our country smells. I haven't been out here since I came with Grannie about five years ago. So, maybe, that odor you notice is the billabongs. They are muggy, and the breeze comes in from where the sheep are out there grazing." "What's a_ billabong?" questioned. "Little ponds. They can be so Betz 845 NOVEMBER 1966 smell like an ol shoe until we get it gired out. It build and go on living out Almost every place in the wor has some dreadful thing, like floods, or earthquakes — maybe drought or pests, like flies." Betz squirmed. "Don't worry, Julie went on. "Our flies are harmless and this isn't willie-willie season." "Trade you seats," Wally said. He had been talking to Big Dan Aunt Cleo Uncle glad to operate. Dr. George was driving the car, with Aunt Isabelle close beside him. He gave her tender, sidelong glances as if he would never let her out of his sight again. Julie closed her eyes, remembering Aunt Isabelle's words: "Help me to £0 to him, Julie, if only for a little while." It is so right, they should be together again, she thought, with an ache in h An_ hour later, Dr. Swung the big car B46 choppy yoad that led to the staIt looked even worse than Julie remembered it, squatting 1 1 great color, no radiance, no beauty. "New York," laughed. "Wally, been out of Australia!" Dr. George stopped the cat so they could watch the tall brolga. They are beautiful, Julie thought, lifting her head. There is always something beautiful or interesting if we look for it. But, sometimes, We let the drabness of the flamingos I saw at the zoo in London." "They are about that size," Wally said. "Only flamingos can't dance.", "Their coloring is different," Aunt Cleo added. "These are a very pale, delicate gray that fades into the landscape. I'd like a painting of the brolgas in the bush." "We'll have one painted some day," John told her, patting her shoulder. "Look—they're really dancing!" Betz cried _ ecstatically. "I've never seen anything like it!"' "Grand!" Big Dan _ agreed. "You won't see anything like this anywhere else in the world." He picked up his guitar and strummed in rhythm with the birds, as they danced in unison through the tufty, brittle grass. He winked at Julie. She reached for her banjo, and they played together, following the movements of the birds. Then Big Dan guided the melody into 'Matilda,' and everyone, even Aunt Isabelle, joined in the song. Wally has a rollicking tenor voice that should be trained, Julie thought, noticing that Betz was looking at him with that recurring radiance in her eyes. Dr. George started the car again, but Big Dan kept them singing as they went along. Julie knew why. He had sensed her despair. He had felt her loneliness and realized they must lift their hearts and take their own music with them. A jeep was coming toward them. As it drew nearer Julie recognized Keno and Geena, his wife, Aborigines, caretakers of TELL ME OF LOVE the station who lived there the year around. They had worked for the Ridgehavens ever since they were old enough to hold a broom. They had attended the local school, as all Aborigines were obliged to do. Even in the Deep-Heart country, they were building schools for the Aborigines. Grandfather insisted that Geena and Keno continue their education even though they were married. They could speak some English words now. "A jolly good day!" Big Dan called out. "A jolly good day to you," they called back. Their faces were flushed with excitement, and their white teeth made their smiles flash in the _ sunshine. Having the Ridgehavens here would be a holiday for them, Julie thought. Generally, Aunt Cleo sent them off to visit their relatives while she cleaned the whole place over in her own way. "Looks like the cat had licked it," she said to Julie as they went inside the house. "Geena does the best she can, but I can't eat a bite or sleep a wink until we scrub it top to bottom." Julie agreed with her, as they hurriedly went from room to room. "We'll put Isabelle in your grandfather's bedroom. That has the only real bed in the house," Cleo said. "The rest of us can use the bunks." Julie squirmed. "Do the straw mattresses still smell like moldy old hay? Betz will wish she'd brought her Calla Deon perfume." Cleo stopped in the middle of spreading fresh sheets on Isabelle's bed. 847 NOVEMBER 1966 There were little twinkles in her blue, blue eyes. "Betz is so daffy about Wally that if he told her those mattresses were stuffed with feathers from the brolga she would believe him. And Wally! Showing off all the time, the way a boy does when he's falling in love and doesn't know it." Julie held her breath for a long, incredulous moment. "No—it can't happen," she insisted. ""Wally is engaged to Sue Ellen. Grandfather won't permit ie" "We'll see,' Cleo answered. "Now, tell Dr. George to bring Isabelle in here. We'll wash the windows later." ''Wash the windows!" Julie repeated. "Oh, Aunt Cleo, we're all so tired and hungry." i "We'll eat first, of course," she said. "But Isabelle isn't going to lie in here and look at dirty windowpanes. Not while I have my bloomin' youth. She's going to have sunshine and moonlight and watch the stars up there just as long as she can." Her voice stumbled. She turned her head from Julie who had never seen her cry before. Aunt Cleo was so strong, so capable, so—so utterly down-toearth. Her voice was husky with tears when she spoke: "When John took me to his father's house for the first time—Isabelle was kind to me. She knew I was scared clear through. I knew what they would think of me. Sometimes when you're scared of what people think of you, it brings out the worst in you. But after the first shock of knowing John had married me, Isabelle was real nice to me. Not the way your Aunt Tricia was, because she's the only angel I've ever known, 'but kind, for a lady like Isabelle, who even met the Queen when she came to Australia." "Aunt Isabelle has known hard work, too," Julie said, defensively. "Grandfather believes each of us should do her part." Cleo dabbed at her eyes. "Isabelle never had to skin a kangaroo," she said in a tight voice. "Oh, maybe, she can shoot one, but could she skin one and then eat it seven days a week for seven weeks without a grumble? Or has she stayed up with the sheep in lambing season so that little ones won't get trampled to death. No, there's a difference, Julie, in what a woman has been trained to do. Isabelle is 'to the manner born,' " she quoted. "I read that in one of the books I'm studying. But I love her. There isn't a thing in this world I wouldn't do to help her. Now—let's get moving. There's food to be packed for their search, there's dinner to get, the house to clean. Hurry and tell Dr. George we're ready for Isabelle." C. LEO bustled to the kitchen, calling for Wally to go to the tank and fill the water bags. "Betz," she said, over her shoulder, ''while Wally is gone for the water, you can sweep out the bunk rooms. Shake out the mattresses. There might be bugs, but they won't hurt you." "T want to go with Wally," Betz said with a stubborn pout. Wally turned at the doorway, waiting for her. "No," Cleo said. ""We need you here. Julie, wash every dish in the cupboard with soapy water. One rinse will have to do as water is scarce. So dry them shiny clean. Then set the table. But, first, polish the knives and forks and spoons. There's polish down there on the lower shelf." Big Dan, watching from the doorway, beamed his big smile at Cleo. | "Your John is a very lucky man," he said. "And he knows it," a voice called behind him. It was Uncle John. Cleo's eyes glowed with pleasure. "Oh, come in," she laughed. "This is a busy place." "Four of us will leave at daybreak," Big Dan said. "They will be John, Geoffrey, Dr. George, and myself. Wally will stay here to help you women with the heavy work, and to kill some fresh meat." Wally still lingered in the doorway, hoping Aunt Cleo would change her mind about Betz. Instead, Aunt Cleo handed her the broom. "Now, son," Geoffrey turned to him, "I expect you to be the man of the house while we're. Gone. If we don't find Ron within three days we'll be back for more supplies. I'm leaving one of my best rifles with you. There are moundmaking turkeys out there, and kangaroo is good the way your Aunt Cleo cooks it." "Dad " Wally's face sobered. "Don't ask me to shoot a bloomin' kangaroo. I wish they were all safe in a zoo. You remember last year I tried to shoot one. It just stood there bouncing on its hind legs, begging a cobber not to kill it." "Don't be a chook," Geoffrey TELL ME OF LOVE scoffed. He turned to Aunt Cleo, who was cooking at the stove. "Can you shoot a kangaroo?" he asked her. "Cleo is a sharpshooter,'' Uncle John chimed in. "A real good shot." "We can get more tinned meat at the township and there are sheep out there about forty miles," she said. "You be careful," John said, "it's easy to get lost out there.' Even Betz raved about the dinner Cleo served an hour later: curried rice with tinned meat, diced carrots with golden brown fried onions, and a lemon pudding for sweets. "It was good," she told Julie later as they were getting ready for bed. "But a few days of her cooking, and I'll eat myself out of shape." Julie smiled. Betz was slender and cute and looked like a fashion plate, even in an old shirt and trousers. "Know something?" she asked dreamily as she put her hair up in curlers. "I like your family. Even if Cleo is bossy, she's as natural as sunshine. Can she really shoot a kangaroo?" '"'Why sure! So can I, if I have to," Julie told her. "Well, then, shoot one for me. Because I want a kangaroo coat. I saw a picture of one in a magazine. They are the newest fashion." Julie looked at her. "Listen, Betz, you haven't seen a kangaroo, except in a zoo. You can't imagine how playful they are, when they leap in the bush with their tails pumping. They run together in mobs. It's as Wally 849 NOVEMBER 1966 said, they beg you not to shoot them. If we need fresh meat and can't get out to the sheep, I'll kill one, but not for a fur coat." "How ridiculous!"' Betz laughed. "You kill sheep for food and shear them for wool. Unborn lamb coats are a luxury. I'll make a bet with you, Julie, Wally will get me a kangaroo coat." Julie's Irish blue eyes sparked up, and her chin squared off like the bow of the Queen Mary. "Wally is engaged to Sue Ellen Grant," she said very quietly. "I told you she was waiting until he finishes at the University next January." Betz sat down on the bunk, staring at Julie. "You had to know," Julie said. "It's better that I remind you than anyone else." "T guess you did tell me," she said in a thin voice. "You told me so much about your family— I didn't want to remember that Wally is engaged." Her voice crumbled into little pieces, but she went on: "I haven't known what I wanted until I met Wally. Now—I know. I want to marry Wally and be a Ridgehaven. I'll even work as they do. I'll even...' She looked at Julie. Her eyes did not flinch. "T'll even live out here in the bush if he has to." "Grandfather won't let him forsake Sue Ellen," Julie told her. Betz got to her feet. Her voice was solid iron. "Julie, I'm an American. When we're pushed too far, we fight our way out. There are some things in this life your grandfather can't control—like the wind and the sun and love itself. I think he is a grand gentleman with high ideals. But I'm going to marry Wally. Please, Julie, help me. You know how it is to love someone—the way you love Ron." (To be continued) TO WALK ALONE Mabel Jones Gabbott All that | wanted was this for you That you could tie or buckle your shoe. At night when the stars blinked loftily down At us and the lights in our little town, You read to me, | read to you Of the Little Red Hen and Little Boy Blue, And all | wanted was that you should need To feel this urgency to read. And all | wanted when the noon sun shone Was that you could waik to school alone. Sometimes the wind tossed leaves in our path; You would leave my side and chase them and laugh; | watched how the breeze tossed your red-gold curls As you dropped my apron to run with the girls; All that | wanted was that you should decide The turn of your sails with the outgoing tide. All that | wanted too soon is here; You need me no longer, but, oh, my dear— Childhood, schooldays—now that you're grown, How can | learn to walk alone? 650 Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Reno Stake (Nevada) Singing Mothers Concert Fallon, Nevada, May 12, and Reno, Nevada, May 13, 1966 Dorothea J. Folsom, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports: "We are delighted with the success of the first Singing Mothers concert held in Reno Stake. The Singing Mothers are now known to the general public of this area. They were enthusiastically received. The program was of sacred and secular music, along with specialty numbers, with interest for all ages. The script for the concert was written and narrated by Carol Martin. We are so pleased with the response to this concert, and have had many requests to make it an annual affair. We wish to pay special tribute to our very talented chorister Glenda Luekenga, who arranged the program and worked so diligently to make the concert possible. We traveled with her to each ward for rehearsals, and she was truly an inspiration to all. It was an outstanding accomplishment to bring the sisters together from widely scattered wards, one as far away as 140 miles, another ninety miles, and some sixty-five miles—to blend their voices in sweet song was truly a thrill.". Insert: Chorister Glenda Luekenga 851 Wayne Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Serving Thirty Years Honored at Social May 5, 1966 Front row, left to vigilate Artie Taft; Eva Albrecht; Maud Pace; Emma Jane Brinkerhoff; Nettie Brian; Loa Johansen. Second row, left to right: Lula Taylor; Emma Forsyth; Laura Behunin; Roxie Jackson; Mary Duncan; Amanda Chidester; Annie DeLeeuw. Back row, standing, left to right: Pearl DeLeeuw, Dorthy Taylor; Della Nelson; Grace Baker; Addie Jackson; Belle Allen; Lela Chappell; Rena Chappell. Ora C. Morrell, President, Wayne Stake Relief Society, reports: "Special recognition was given to the active visiting teachers who have served thirty years or more, and special honor was given to Nettie Brian and Nellie Cannon (not in picture) who have served for fifty years and are still serving. A dramatization 'Beyond Each Door' was presented. The stake Singing Mothers furnished the music, directed by chorister Viola Rees, accompanied by Lola Brown." Danish Mission Relief Society Conference June 4-5, 1966 Relief Society officers, front row, beginning fourth from the right, left to right: Tove Bernskov, Secretary-Treasurer; Ingrid A. Sorenson, Supervisor; Inger Rasmussen, President; Edith Christensen, Counselor. Ingrid A. Sorensen, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, rpeorts: "On Saturday, June 4th, all the sisters who had traveled to Copenhagen from the outlying districts and Jutland were served breakfast. At 7:30 the Singing Mothers attended a practice for the combined choruses from Copenhagen and Jutland. At 9:30 all the sisters attending the conference were welcomed by the mission leaders, after which they separated into departmental work. At eleven o'clock everyone enjoyed the film 'A Light Shining.' After this presentation, the sisters boarded buses for Tivoli Gardens, where each received a lunch. The buses then returned everyone to the church where a fashion show was presented. At 5:30 everyone gathered for a delicious banquet. Some of the sisters presenied a clever skit which everyone enjoyed. The day ended with a concert held in the chapel. The Singing Mothers presented several numbers, as well as other singing groups from the different branches.. "The conference continued Sunday morning with a meeting for the Relief Society leaders. Other members of Relief Society attended Sunday School and testimony meeting in the different branches in Copenhagen. In the afternoon the main session of conference was held and a spiritual feast was enjoyed. After the meeting all those from outside Copenhagen were given a sack of fresh fruit to eat while traveling home. Many fine comments were heard from those who attended the conference, and everyone seemed to be spiritually uplifted and rejuvenated." Toronto (Canada) Stake Relief Society Presents ''A Flight Into Fashion" June 4, 1966 In the picture, Sandra Gill is wearing a dress which she made, and is representative of the fifty-two models who appeared in the "Flight Into Fashion," wearing costumes which they sewed for themselves. Marjorie Innis, President, Toronto Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Three hundred fifty Relief Society. Sisters, their husbands, and friends attended an evening dinner and entertainment, June 4, 1966. The models demonstrated the lovely garments which could be made at very little cost, and how Relief Society contributes to the growth and development of our talents. The tables in the cultural hall were tastefully decorated with lilacs. The stage decor typified a spring garden complete with bubbling fountain, trees, and flowers. The combined stake Singing Mothers chorus contributed some beautiful music to the outstanding program. The food was delicious. Many commented that this was the nicest affair they had attended since joining the Church." 852 New Jersey Stake Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts April 20th and April 22nd, 1966 The chorister Maleka Brown stands at the piano; accompanist Ann Park seated at the piano; Ella H. Farnsworth, President, New Jersey Stake Relief Society, at the left on the back row; Alma Saunders, Secretary-Treasurer, at the right on the first row.; Sister Farnsworth reports: "Using as a theme 'Our Promised Valleys,' the Singing Mothers presented two concerts. The program selections covered a variety of musical styles, classical, religious, and contemporary. A narration developed the basic theme that in each heart there are many 'promised valleys' to be discovered. The first concert was presented in the Short Hills Ward chapel, with about four hundred people in attendance including many friends and investigators. After the concert, the audience was invited into the cultural hall, where exhibits from each Relief Society department were displayed and refreshments served. "The second concert was presented in Cranbury, New Jersey, in response to a request from a non-Latter-day Saint group of women who had been impressed by the singing at a concert last year. There were over 250 nonmembers in the audience, who were enthusiastic in their appreciation. The chorus was invited to present another program next year, and two new invitations for further concerts were received. The group was part of the chorus which previously sang at the New York World's Fair, and for two consecutive years at the 'Mother of the Year' awards presentation." NOVEMBER 1966 Florida Mission Relief Society Convention June 18, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: President Elroy Stapleton, First Counselor, Florida Mission; Jeanette Owens, Counselor, Georgia-Florida District Relief Society; Florida Mission Relief Society officers: Lena Bruner, SecretaryTreasurer; Ruby Powell, Counselor; Mildred Barlow, Counselor; Moneta Oates, President; Linnie F. Montierth, guest speaker; Tracy Dinkins, President, Gulf District Relief Society; Elvia Peters, President, West Florida District Relief Society; President Lincoln Barlow, Counselor, Florida Mission, and Relief Society advisor. Sister Oates reports: "The annual Florida Mission Relief Society Convention was held at the new West Florida Stake Center in Tallahassee. We were thrilled at the attendance of over 125. Many of the sisters from the Gulf District had to leave their homes at three o'clock in the morning to be in attendance. Our theme was 'Home Is My Harbor.' The Georgia-Florida District, under the direction of Jeanette Owens, presented the play 'Home Is My Harbor,' which was one of the highlights of the convention. Sister Oates spoke on 'Home Is Our Harbor,' and President and Sister Barlow spoke on 'The Ideal Latter-day Saint Woman, Wife, and Mother,' and 'Attaining Ideal Latter-day Saint Womanhood Through Service in Relief Society,' respectively. Our guest speakers were President Zeniff D. Harrison, who spoke on "The Art of Rearing Latter-day Saint Boys Successfully,' and Linnie F. Montierth, who spoke on "The Art of Rearing Latter-day Saint Girls Successfully.' The film strip 'And Then Came the Women' was presented. Lovely musical numbers were presented by the West Florida District, under the direction of Elvia Peters, and by the Gulf District, under direction of Tracy Dinkins. Informative departments were held, and a small potted plant was presented to each sister as a token of love and appreciation for her faithful labors. A delicious luncheon was served under the direction of Ellen Bryan, President, Tallahassee Branch Relief Society." Leeds Stake (England), Sheffield Ward Relief Society Closing Social June 28, 1966 Standing, left to right: Margaret Phillipson (partly visible); Irene M. Bustin; Bessie Nettleship; E. Mary Brownlow; A. Margaret Parsons; Katrina Melbourne; Helen Bell (partly visible). Seated, left to right: Lily Machell; Vera Beattie; Sister Lakin (Sister Beattie's mother (partly visible). Margaret Greenfield, President, Sheffield Ward Relief Society, reports: "The occasion was a social given for the Relief Society sisters, marking the end of the winter lessons, but held over to June 28th, being the last Tuesday that Vera Beattie would be with us before leaving Sheffield with her husband and son Roger. (Their eldest son, John, is at present away at University.) We decided this social should be held in Sister Beattie's honor. She has been a member of the Church all of her life, and a valuable worker, being President of Leeds Stake Relief Society when the opportunity was presented to Brother Beattie to work in the London Temple as an electrician. We shall miss them so much in Sheffield, but look forward to seeing them many times on temple visits. "The tablecloth in the picture was presented to Sister Beattie by Sister Bustin. The tablecloth was beautifully made, with the names of Sister Garlick, our homemaking leader, and the names of the other Relief Society sisters embroidered on it, giving the tablecloth a very effective appearance." B56 Ay '« ths BSI $ seb a we" ugh: amy 1 oe TTT ' lh Co sill nape pan SAN TAS 857 Lesson Department | i\, ys SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 77 — A Divine Document Prepares the Way for the Restoration of the Gospel (Text: Doctrine and Covenants 98:1-22; 101:76-80) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the Lord's purpose in establishing the Constitution of the United States. INTRODUCTION Section 98 of the Doctrine and Covenants contains information relative to the fundamental law of the land, the purpose of which is to guarantee certain rights and privileges to those who live in the United States. It is a testimony to the inspiration of this Section that it was received in the midst of the difficulties and persecutions of the saints in Missouri. PREPARATION FOR THE CONSTITUTION Latter-day Saints should have a deep appreciation of the Lord's loving concern for his children, as illustrated in his words concerning the land of America. The rights established here "should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh" (D&C 101:77). Class Discussion How did the Lord prepare the way for the restoration of the gospel? In the scriptures the Lord details his watchcare over North and South America and the people of the Western Hemisphere as long as they would serve Jesus Christ so that his gospel might be restored in the last days. 1. The land was kept from the knowledge of other nations until the Holy Roman Empire had been broken up and the various nations had established themselves as independent kingdoms. (2 Nephi 1:6, 8.) 2. God inspired Columbus to go "forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land" (1 Nephi 13e12). 3. During the periods of religious persecution in the world people fled to America (1 Nephi 13:13-16). 4. In a remarkable prophecy 2300 years before the Revolutionary War of the United States, God predicted the war of independence and _indicated "that the Gentiles that had gone out of captivity were delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations" (1 Nephi 13:19). 5. The Lord declared, "this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land" (2 Nephi 10:11). 6. "For this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very -purpose" (D&C 101: 80). 7. God declared "'it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another" (D&C 101: 79). 8. "I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land' (D&C 98:6). 9. God declared, 'Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ" (Ether 2:12). The Book of Mormon tells of the city of Zion to be built upon the American continent in the last days. (Ether 13:4-6.) In 1831, it was revealed that this city would be built eventually in Jackson County, Missouri. (D&C 57:1-3.) A study of the development of America establishes the truth that God's hand has been over the land in order that the restoration of the gospel might be possible and that the work of the Lord in the last days might come to fruition. We must look to the background of the early colonists of America for the historical roots out of which came the form of government established in the United States. The colonists were largely from England; consequently, they brought with them, principally, English ideas LESSON DEPARTMENT upon which to build a government. In fact, it has been said that Americans in the Revolution were fighting to recover old rights which had belonged to them as Englishmen. Earlier in English history certain elements of freedom for the people were embodied in unwritten customs and in written statements, one of which was the Magna Charta (1215). This document had come to mean that the people as a whole had rights which the King could not violate. From England the colonists also received ideas of political liberty such as the night of trial by jury, representative government, and the protection against an unjust government of "home, family, person, and property." From Europe came Germans, Frenchmen, Dutchmen, Scandinavians, and people from other nations as well. Out of the resulting discussions in the American. Colonies prior to the American Revolution were born great ideas, unique at that time to America, such as freedom of speech, freedom of press, freedom of the right of assembly. We should remember, also, that although Americans inherited a_ legacy from Europe, new forces arose in America, under divine inspiration, which provided under the Government of the United States the needed protection for the establishment of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the dispensation of the fulness of times. THE BEGINNING OF A NATION Thirteen colonies flourished along the eastern seaboard of the country under the rule of England. By 1763, England had fought and won the French and NOVEMBER 1966 Indian Wars to protect these colonies, and, in order to pay part of the cost, heavy taxes were levied upon the colonies. There went up the cry "no taxation without representation." In 1774, colonial delegates to a convention met and drew up a "Declaration of Rights and Grievances" to be submitted to King George III of England. Unfortunately, this conflict could not be resolved by arbitration. To make their protest heard, the _ colonists agreed that they would not import any goods from England until satisfaction was met. Unable to find a satisfactory solution, the British government sent ten thousand troops to America to enforce the law. In July 1775, the Continental Congress appointed General George Washington commander-in-chief of the Continental Army. The Revolutionary War was a fact with continued fighting between England and the colonies. On July 4, 1776, in Philadelphia, the Declaration of Independence was finally adopted. Class Discussion Why was it necessary for this nation to be born? President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., answers this: that there should come into the world and take a guiding place among the family of nations, a government and a people dedicated to the principles that certain great fundamental truths were self-evident; "that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are _ instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed."... I say that in establishing this government, God movetl forward, according to His promise and' declared purpose, as set out in Holy Writ to make this land 'a land choice above all lands." This is the great motif which runs through our whole history (The Deseret News, Church Section, March 4, 1939, page 1). In 1777, the colonies drew up the Articles of Confederation in order to win the war with England and also to establish a lasting union. This form of government, which continued from 1781 to 1789, was one in which the States retained their sovereignty, freedom, and independence. This league of States, however, lacked a central power by which the Confederation could function as a Nation. Because of the, inadequacy of the Articles, a convention was called to amend them. This Convention in 1787, under the leadership of George Washington, set the Articles aside and drafted a new document, known as the Constitution of the United States. Washington's words were: "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair, the event is in the hand of God." But during the Constitutional Convention and after four or five weeks of 'discussion and argument, the progress being very slow, Benjamin Franklin addressed himself to the presiding officer, George Washington, and asked the following: In this situation of the Assembly, groping as it were in the dark to find political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us, how has it happened, Sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father of lights to illuminate our understanding? He then reminded the Convention that divine assistance had been sought during the struggle with Great Britain and that their prayers were answered. Then he said: I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth—that God governs in the affairs of men. Class Discussion What does the Constitution of the United States mean to you as a Latter-day Saint woman living anywhere in the world today? The men who formulated the Constitution were foreordained to this very purpose: 1 established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (D&C 101:80). The opportunity to receive the fulness of the gospel at the hands of the Priesthood of God was not possible to these "wise men," but through the principle of salvation for the dead, the Lord revealed that this was possible. President Wilford Woodruff said about the signers of the Declaration of Independence, some of whom were in the Constitutional Convention: I am going to bear my testimony to this assembly, if I never do it again in my life, that those men who laid the foundation of the American government and signed the Declaration of Independence were the best spirits the God of heaven could find on the face of the earth. They were choice spirits, not wicked men. General Washington and all the men that labored for the purpose were inspired of the Lord. Another thing I am going to say here, because I have a right to say it. Every one of those men that signed the Declaration of Independence, with -General Washington, called upon me, LESSON DEPARTMENT as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the Temple at St. George, two consecutive nights and demanded at my hands that I should go forth and attend to the ordinances of the House of God for them. Men are here, I believe, that know of this, Brother J. D. T. McAllister, David H. Cannon, and James G. Bleak. Brother McAllister baptized me for all those men and then I told those brethren that it was their duty to go into the Temple and labor until they had got endowments for all of them. They did it. Would those spirits have called upon me, as an Elder in Israel, to perform that work if they had not been noble spirits before God? They would not. I bear this testimony, because it is true. The Spirit of God bore record to myself and the brethren while we were laboring in that way (Conference Report, April 1898, pp. 89-90). Because the Lord had declared 'that he had established the Constitution by the hands of wise men, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Counselor in the First Presidency to three Presidents of the Church, accepted it as a part of his religion. The genius of the Constitution, he felt, was not only in the freedoms and rights granted to the citizens of the United States, but also in the separation of the fusion of governmental functions—the legislative, the executive, and the judicial. ORIGIN OF THE BILL OF RIGHTS In order further to guarantee the right of the individual, the following ten amendments known as the Bill of Rights went into effect in 1791, with the approval of the First Congress under the new Constitution: Bill of Rights Provisions Article One Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or NOVEMBER 1966 prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Article Two A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed. Article Three No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war but in a manner to be prescribed by law. Article Four The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized. Article Five No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation. Article Six In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence. Article Seven In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise reexamined in any Court of the United States, than according to the rules of the common law. Article Eight Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. Article Nine The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people. Article Ten The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people. Regarding these amendments, President Clark counseled as follows and gave his testimony concerning the Constitution: Now, there are others of these great political blessings that you may have taken for granted, but they are not like the air, the sunshine, and the rain. You can lose them. Read and study the Bill of Rights; you will conclude you cannot afford to lose — any of those rights. I repeat, to me the Constitution of the United States is a part of my religion; it has become so because of the words of the Lord which I have read to you. So far as I know, he has never given an approval such as this to any other government in the world. So far as I can see, the Constitution of the United States, as of 1833, was his plan of government, reserving and guaranteeing these great rights which you must enjoy if you are going to remain free, if you are going to worship as you wish, if you are going to be a free people ("Some Political Blessings,' Address at Brigham Young University, May 21, 1957). REVELATION AND RIGHTS In 1833, when the Lord revealed that he had established the Constitution of the United States, it was fifty years old. It wasn't until thirty years later that the two amendments abolishing slavery and guaranteeing citizenship and its protection were enacted. The Lord, in Section 101, said: According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land... (Verses 77-80). Class Discussion According to the Lord, for what purpose was the Constitution established? CONCLUSION In concluding this lesson, we may say, because of the Savior's words to the Nephites following his resurrection, that the American Nation was set up as a free nation in the last days as an act of God. For it is wisdom in the Father that they [the Gentiles] should be established in this land, and be set up as a free people by the power of the Father, that these things [true gospel LESSON DEPARTMENT teachings] might come forth from them unto a remnant of your seed, that the covenant of the Father may be fulfilled which he hath covenanted with his people, O house of Israel (3 Nephi 21:4). It was possible for the gospel of Jesus Christ to be restored upon the American Continent because it is the land where a free people reside. From here the restored gospel's principles of free agency and freedom were to spread to bless all nations, kindreds, tongues, and peoples. Because of the United States Government, we have seen the partial fulfillment of the Savior's words to the Nephites. The gospel has been taken to other nations under the protection of the United States government and with the cooperation of many nations. In accordance with the prophecies of the perpetuity of the Church, so also will America continue to fulfill its purposes. Despite some provocations against this Nation, and at times a lack of political acumen, the Lord has continued to bless this great land, a land designated as Zion. The Prophet Joseph Smith believed that the Constitution was a part of his religion, for he said: The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of its liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun We say that God is true; that the Constitution of the United States is true; that the Bible is true; that the Book of Mormon is true; that the Book of Covenants is true; that Christ is true... (DHC ITI:304). 863 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 77 — "Let Your Hearts Be Comforted; For All Things Shall Work Together For Good to Them That Walk Uprightly" (D&C 100:15). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To understand that all life experiences will work Men die in steaming jungles. A bright, promising child of six is paralyzed by an automobile accident. A mother of eight dies of influenza. A snowslide buries a hundred people. Thousands die of famine. Amid cries of hopelessness and helplessness comes the calm, assuring promise of the Lord, "Let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly" (D&C 100:15). A Latter-day Saint knows that one of the purposes of earth life is to be tested. In the beginning before man was on the earth, God said, "'we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them... And they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever' (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:25-26). In this great plan man was to learn good from evil and hopefully choose the good. In this great testing, misfortune comes to all of us. The Lord knew that man would suffer and die of cancer, that man would torture and kill, that women would die in childbirth, and that 864 for good to the righteous. Airplane crashes would snuff out the lives of loved ones, and yet he counseled "... Fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full" (D&C 101:36). Of Christ, the scriptures say, "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by — the things which he suffered" (Hebrews 5:8). If glory and happiness had to be won by the Savior, then can we not be comforted when our Lord says, "... Peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high" (D&C 121: 7-8). When we are personally burdened with sorrow and misfortune, service to others will not only be helpful to them but will also bring solace to us. Let us, then, walk uprightly, giving meat to the hungry, drink to the thirsty, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and those that are in prison, and loving the Lord and our neighbors with all our hearts. If we follow the Prophet Joseph Smith's great admonition given to the Relief Society at their second meeting, we will "fly to the relief of the stranger... Pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice" (DHC, Vol. IV, p. 567). LESSON DEPARTMENT If we walk uprightly, we shall learn how to love, how to be patient, gentle, kind, forbearing, and forgiving, understanding that all thing shall work together for our good. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To show that wise financial planning is helpful in all circumstances for all age groups. NOTE: The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing INTRODUCTION In the life cycle of a family, each stage of development has a direct influence on all succeeding stages as they appear. Probably the most important of these is the first one—that established by two young parents who, as "Young Marrieds,'" begin this important life cycle. The final stage, retirement, depends for its success almost entirely upon the long-range plans made by these young partners. Especially is this true in regard to their financial planning, with which this discussion is concerned. YOUNG MARRIEDS In the early years of living together, the young marriage partners must make adjustments and plans which will determine the future—indeed, the entire structhe objective of the discussion. Ture of the family which they hope to establish. This is not easy, for seldom do the bride and groom come from backgrounds which are identical in nature from whatever perspective they might be viewed. But the differences can actually be sources of strength if they are brought into a proper balance by careful planning and mutual cooperation. TO DISCUSS Case Study A: Tom and Margaret are beginning their married life. Their financial prospects are good, Tom having a position with possibilities of future advancement in a well-established firm. In planning where to live, they decide in favor of a modest apartment which they furnish economically, but tastefully, with just those things which are necessary for their immediate needs. Together, they work out a plan which will enable them to realize 865 NOVEMBER 1966 some of their desires and ambitions for the future. The success of this plan, they realize, depends upon a program of self-discipline and selfdenial. Many of the immediate wants will have to be curtailed since they do not want to go in debt. They invest in an insurance plan which will be a protective safeguard in the future. They also work out a plan of saving for future needs, including a home. This they do by putting aside small amounts regularly for this purpose. Discuss the advisability of making such a plan. What are the benefits of selfdiscipline and self-denial in es-_ tablishing financial security? What are the responsibilities of parents in preparing young people to accept the financial obligations of marriage and live within their means? Case Study B: Ted and Jeanne are also beginning married life. They have no carefully worked-out plan of expenditures. Budgeting for them becomes merely a matter of distributing the income to meet obligations which have already been made. Instead of being able to establish a savings account or any other kind of plan for the future, Ted and Jeanne must depend on their ability to borrow money to offset the discrepancies which are bound to arise between income and contracted obligations. What are the pitfalls of this kind of living? The inevitable result of this lack of foresight and planning is disastrous, and it can mean the complete collapse of the family financial structure. Money problems which arise from poor financial management, extravagance, and living beyond one's income are some of the most serious causes of bickering and quarreling in families, sometimes leading even to divorce. 866 When starting a home it is important for husband and wife to plan the goals they wish to attain. Working together to achieve these goals will bring much satisfaction. A clearly defined goal will give to a family the incentive to make financial sacrifices in early years of married life, in order to attain the goals set by them. If young married couples start saving early for a home, they have a much better chance of obtaining that goal, than those who do not plan or work to gain their desires. There is not an "ideal budget" or plan of expenditures for a young married couple or for any individual or group of individuals. Last month's_ discussion attempted to show that each family must think through and develop its own family financial plan in the form of a budget which will set up guidelines to solve its own financial problems. Be wise as a young bride and groom, but also be wise as an established family group. Try to avoid mistakes which can result from lack of foresight and planning. SPECIFIC SAVING PRACTICES There are specific things families may do to facilitate living within a budget. These vary in the various countries. Quantity buying of staples, for example, which is a wise practice in some countries may not be feasible where housing, climate conditions and other factors make storage for any length of time impractical. In the United States, families may make real savings by shopping weekly for the "food leaders" advertised by grocery stores. One gentleman reported saving $300 in one year by following this practice. In the Scandinavian countries, after-season and also after-holiday clothing sales enable families to save on their purchases of clothing. The stores also have furniture and drapery, bedding and "white" sales at certain periods of the year. Wise shoppers will plan to purchase their needs at these times. Small fruits are in abundance and many may be picked in the forests at no cost. Apples are in plentiful supply. Savings can be affected by preserving these fruits and making jams, jellies, and applesauce. THE RETIRED COUPLE Too often we fail to realize that the retired couple are the same two individuals who began the family cycle and that their financial standing is the direct result of what has gone before. Church leaders frequently counLESSON DEPARTMENT sel members to prepare for their old age during their income producing years by saving or investing funds for this particular purpose. If the family financial plan has been carefully worked out and followed, the years of retirement will have been properly and adequately provided for. However, the same general rules also apply, with the proper adjustments and adaptions, in this last stage of the family cycle. People who are in retirement are wise if they follow the same procedures of estimating their income, calculating their fixed expenditures, planning their daily expenses, and using' what extra funds they may have, not for saving for the future, but for enjoying life while they can. None, of this needs to be a burden, for it naturally falls into an easilyfollowed pattern of living. What benefits do the retired couple reap from having a wise financial plan early in life? SEA ETCHING | Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn The sound of waves becomes translated Into ripples, scrolled and fanned, That show the pattern of the tide Clear-etched upon the wet sea sand. 867 SOCIAL RELATIONS—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 2—Heirs to the Kingdom Reference: On Earth and in Heaven (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual—1967, Lessons 17 and 18) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To point out some general aspects of gospel ordinances and to point out that the ordinance of baptism is not essential to the redemption of little children. INTRODUCTION The following conversation overheard immediately preceding and at the conclusion of an informal lecture, is particularly relevant to this, and two subsequent lessons: Friend A. I don't know exactly why I am in this audience today. I know all about the subject to be discussed. Friend B. (at the conclusion of the informal lecture) Why didn't you raise your hand when the speaker asked the questions? I thought you knew all about the subject. Friend A. Well, I thought I did know the subject, but when it came to giving concrete, specific answers, I simply didn't know them. Friend B. You mean there is a difference between knowing about a subject and actually knowing the facts? Friend A. Very definitely. I am so grateful that I came today. Relief Society women are generally familiar with the blessings and purposes of the ordinances of the Church, administered by bearers of the Priesthood. They often may not be informed, however, as to the scriptural sources and full dimensions of these ordinances, nor with the meaningful facts with which they are as- 868 sociated. While all gospel ordinances are an expression of the divine will, designed for the good and blessings of mankind, not all ordinances are of equal importance in relation to man's salvation. This lesson will outline briefly the plan of salvation and will discuss some of the ordinances which are associated with this gospel plan. GOSPEL ORDINANCES When the scriptures speak of ordinances, generally, they mean the law and requirements which God has instituted for the salvation of man, as illustrated by the following statement: "And this shall be our covenant—that we will walk in all the ordinances of the Lord" (D&C 136:4). In this lesson the term ordinance refers to rites and ceremonies of the gospel which are performed by the authority of the Priesthood for the blessing and salvation of man. An essential feature of all gospel ordinances is that they must be performed by authority of the Priesthood, for he who performs the ordinance must be endowed with power and authority to act in place of the Master. The Priesthood bearer evidences this requirement when he states that the ordinance is performed in the name of Jesus Christ, and by authority of the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood. Those gospel ordinances which are essential for entrance and exaltation in the celestial kingdom are known as ordinances of salvation. Those ordinances which are not a requisite for salvation, and which are given to bless, encourage, and for adminstration are known as ordinances of administration. Class Discussion Why and where would you classify the following ordinances of the Church? Blessing and naming of infants. Healing the sick. Giving a patriarchal blessing. Setting an individual apart for a position in the Church. Baptizing an individual. Temple ordinances. Eo PANE SALVATION OFFERED TO MAN Of God the Father, and our relationship to him, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: God himself, finding he was in the midst of spirits and glory, because he was more intelligent, saw proper to institute laws whereby the rest could have a privilege to advance like himself. The relationship we have with God places us in a situation to advance in knowledge. He has power to institute laws to instruct the weaker intelligences, that they may be exalted with himself, so that they might have one glory upon another, and all that knowledge, power, glory, and intelligence, which is requisite in order to save them in the world of spirits. As spirit children of God, we dwelt with him in a pre-earth » asked: LESSON DEPARTMENT life. We knew him as a glorified, exalted Personage, who possessed both immortality and eternal life. We knew him as the Author of the plan of salvation, providing the laws and the means whereby his spirit children might be saved. His plan, based upon the law of free agency, "called for a preexistent life of preparation, a period of mortal probation, and a separation of body and _ spirit called death, a resurrection for all men, and an inheritance of eternal life for such of his spirit 'children as obeyed the fulness of his laws." This plan of the Father required that an atoning sacrifice be made by one of his spirit children who would be born into the world as his Son, "'thus inheriting from him the power of immortality." CHRIST THE APPOINTED REDEEMER Familiar to all Latter-day Saints is the truth that he whom we know as Jesus of Nazareth was chosen in that premortal life to become the Christ, that Son who would make the atoning sacrifice for all mankind. They know that during his ministry among men, he set the perfect example as to how men must live in order to inherit eternal life. They know that he kept all the commandments of God, that he taught the doctrine of the gospel, that he performed ordinances, healed the sick, wrought miracles through the divine power inherent within him. The question is sometimes "If God is the Author of the plan of salvation, why do we speak of the gospel as the gospel of Jesus Christ?"'"'Because he accepted and advocated the Fa- 869 NOVEMBER 1966 ther's plan of salvation, thus adopting it as his own, he became the Author of eternal salvation unto all them that believe. This plan of salvation is known as the gospel of Christ." Relevant to this truth is the following scripture:... Salvation was, and is, and is to come, in and through the atoning blood of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent (Mosiah 3:18). In Jesus The Christ we read: the Father operated in the work of creation through the Son, who thus became the executive through whom the will, commandment, or word of the Father was put into effect. The part taken by Jesus Christ in the creation, a part so prominent as to justify our calling Him the Creator, is set forth in many scriptures (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus The Christ, page 33). Thus we see that "Christ, as God, possesses the power of his Father. He, too, can do all things necessary to save and exalt the spirit children of the Father. Christ, accordingly, became both the Creator and the Redeemer of the world—the creation and the redemption being the two great events without which there could be no salvation." OF SUCH IS THE KINGDOM OF GOD The ordinance of naming and blessing a child, although not essential to its salvation, is of special importance in establishing and maintaining its identity upon the records of the Church, and is a blessing to both child and parents. 1. In what ways may the blessing of a child involve the parents? 2. How may the ordinance of blessing children contribute to unity within a family? 870 3. How may this ordinance impress parents as to their parental responsibility to guide their children in light and truth? The ancient disciples apparently were concerned about the ordinance of blessing children, since they rebuked those who brought their children to Jesus to be blessed: But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God (Mark 10:14). And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them (Mark 10:16). From The Book of Mormon we read this impressive scripture: And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude bare record of it, and he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them (3 Nephi 17:21). ESSENTIAL ORDINANCES Since the ordinances of salvation are essential for exaltation in the celestial kingdom, and since baptism is an essential ordinance, no accountable person can be saved in this kingdom witL ut benefit of this sacred ordinance. This truth necessitates the vicarious baptism for the dead. For Discussion: How does this fact evidence the law of divine justice? How does this essential ordinance relate to children who die in infancy and therefore have: not reached the age of accountability? HEIRS TO THE CELESTIAL KINGDOM Both ancient and modern revelation assures parents that their children who die in infancy (and therefore are not accountable) are automatically heirs to the celestial kingdom and do not need the ordinance of baptism. The Lord revealed to Joseph Smith the truth that, Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God (D&C 93:38). But behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children until they begin to become accountable before me (D&C 29: 46-47). Thus, the spirit children of God leave his presence and enter mortality free from sin, having no need for repentance until they arrive at an age of accountability. Should they die in this state of purity, they are automatically qualified to return to the celestial presence of God the Father from which they came. They will not, however, attain exaltation "in that kingdom until they have complied with all the requirements of that kingdom" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, 2:54). How comforting to all parents whose children have died in infancy to learn the glorious doctrine which President Joseph Fielding Smith expresses in these words: The Lord is just and will not deprive any person of a blessing, simply because he dies before that blessing can be received. Jt would be manifestly unfair to deprive a little child of the privilege of receiving all the blessings of exaltation in the world to come simply because it died in infancy. LESSON DEPARTMENT The same thing is true of the young men who were deprived of these blessings and laid down their lives during 'he war. The Lord judges every soul by the intent of the heart. All that we need do for children [before accountability] is to have them sealed to their parents. They need no baptism and never will, for our Lord has performed all the work necessary for them. Children who die in childhood will not be deprived of any blessing. When they grow after the resurrection, to the full maturity of the spirit, they will be entitled to all the blessings which they would have been entitled to had they been privileged to tarry here and receive them (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, 2: 54). The significance of this gospel doctrine can 'be more fully realized by a parent whose infant has been taken by death and who has heretofore believed that child to be lost forever. LIFE STORY Sister "R" was a parent, having lost two children in infancy before they had been christened. Her grief was not to be assuaged. One day two Latter-day Saint missionaries called at her home. When these young men, with a message of truth, told her that all children who die before the age of accountability need no baptism, for they are saved in the celestial kingdom, she asked eagerly for scriptural proof. One of the missionaries opening the Bible recalled the words of the Savior: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God" (Mark 10: 14). For a fuller explanation he then opened The Book of Mormon. How sweet to her were these comforting words: 871 NOVEMBER 1966 Behold I say unto yon that this shall ye teach—repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little children, and they shall all be saved with their little children. And their little children need no repentance, neither baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling the commandments unto the remission of sins (Moroni 8:10-11). Little children cannot repent; wherefore, it is awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they are all alive in him because of his mercy (Moroni 8:19).. Wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children (Moroni 8:9). Sister "R" is now a devoted member of the Church, the door of a receptive mind having been opened through this important gospel truth. Of like comfort to many families is the message by President Joseph Fielding Smith in these words: Mentally deficient persons, those who are incompetent of understanding, are classed among those who are redeemed as little children through the atonement of our Redeemer. They need no baptism (Doctrines of Salvation, 2:55-56). One may ask, if baptism is for the remission of sin, why was Jesus of Nazareth, who was withRESOLUTION Estella S. Johnson Age eighty-three out sin, baptized? It is evident from the fact that he was baptized by immersion of John the Baptist that there are other considerations. The following lesson will discuss those aspects of this saving ordinance. CONCLUSION The gospel of Christ is a gospel of blessings to all mankind; ordained to bring peace, honor, and progress toward ultimate perfection to the spirit children of the Father. To the extent that they keep its foreordained commandments, performing the ordinances of salvation which are an inseparable factor, this perfection will be attained. How blest are they who are humble enough for faith; who develop the spiritual insight to understand, to know, and to obey! FOR DISCUSSION Questions that arise during the lesson development. FOR HOME DOING If available, read lesson 17 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, for 1967. Check to see if there are any children in your family who have reached the age of accountability who have not as yet been baptized. Help your children to know that the Savior loves them. Help them to understand and cherish the gospel ordinances they may receive while in childhood and in youth. My hands got too tired to work on a rug, My eyes with cataracts sore, | said to a heavy quilt | was making ll never look at you more. So after my flowers got hit with the frost, | picked up my tablet and pen; They can call, they can shout, They can let the calves out, I'll never be bothered again. E72 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 4—"'There Is Always Time for Courtesy." "There is always time for courtesy." Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: A woman should be respectful and considerate of other people at all times, but not to the point of compromising This month's lesson includes seven short selections—two stories, four poems, and an essay. All of these are printed, with full comments and questions for discussion, in Section Four of Volume II of Out of the Best Books. Obviously, a class leader should not try to cover all seven selections, even though each is brief. Instead she should study the selections and choose those that she feels will be most appropriate and valuable for her group. (Note to class leaders: "My Last Duchess" by Robert Browning, and the essay by John Henry Newman are no longer under copyright and may be recopied as you desire; the other five selections are still under copyright, however, and should not be recopied without special permission from the original publisher.) GENERAL COMMENT: Lesson 2, on Refinement, and this lesson, on Courtesy, are very closely related. Both are concerned with the qualities that identify a person of gentle culture. But whereas Lesson 2 was concerned primarily with the refinement of the person herself, this lesson is concerned primarily with refinement in human relaher own integrity or standards. Tions, which we call courtesy. Even as the Church has always encouraged personal refinement, so it has always encouraged courtesy in our relations with other people. One of the special problems in maintaining courtesy is that each human being is a little different from all others. As Latter-day Saints we tend to be very different in our views and principles from all who are not members of the Church. But even within the Church our personalities, interests, likes, and dislikes are very different. This is also true within the family: husbands and wives are individual personalities not exactly alike, brothers and sisters are different from each other, and parents and children don't see things exactly the same way. It is important that we recognize these differences and still maintain respect for individual human personality. The human personality is sacred, also tender, and all of us are sensitive. Hence all our relations with each other —both within the family and outside the family, both within the Church and outside the Church—should, within the lim- 873 NOVEMBER 1966 its of our principles and integrity, be as courteous and respectful as possible, encouraging the dignity of the human personality—even when we may disagree. This is the mark of refined, cultured, spiritual people who would pattern their lives after the example of Christ. As members of the Latter-day Saint faith, we will agree on fundamental doctrines and principles; but whether members of the Church or not, people will see many things differently in our vast and complex world. A part of courtesy is the freedom for people to pleasantly disagree—without rancor, without loss of respect, without resentment—in the family, in the neighborhood, in the classroom, even in politics. "THE EDUCATED GENTLEMAN" BY JOHN HENRY NEWMAN The special selection for emphasis in this month's lesson is parts of two essays by John Henry Newman, combined under the title "The Educated Gentleman." Newman (1801-1890) was one of the most eminent leaders in education and religion in nineteenth-century England. As a religious leader he wielded powerful influence from 1828-1843 as vicar of St. Mary's, the official church at Oxford University. In 1845 he left the Anglican Church and joined the Roman Catholic Church, gradually rising in prominence and appointment as a cardinal, in 1879. He was also a distinguished educational leader, writing many lectures and essays in which he outlined the goals of the "ideal university" and its product, the cultured gentleman. Between times he also wrote many other things, a74 including a novel and the worldpopular hymn, "Lead, Kindly Light." In his excerpts printed here, Newman argues that the primary. Purpose of education is to. Refine men into gentlemen, and then he defines the qualities of a gentleman. As one reads these excerpts he cannot help being impressed with the excellence of Newman's prose style. Newman was a brilliant, gifted man who wrote superbly. His essays have the classical virtues of gracefulness, clarity, beautiful balance; and elegance in simplicity; moreover, his ideas are also very attractive. The cultured gentleman (or gentlewoman) he describes as the ideal human being, has many qualities that are admirable— tact, refinement, gentleness, patience, understanding and utmost courtesy. Such a person is concerned above all else about other people and avoids offending others at all costs. Surely we need to exercise these qualities in human relationships far more than most of us do. Many of the arguments, misunderstandings, quarrels, resentments, and hurt feelings that result from human friction could be avoided if people were more "gentlemanly" in their contacts with each other. Surely there is far too much rudeness and lack of tact in human relationships. Newman's essay is a lovely description of the refined, courteous man or woman of culture. Let us hear him in his own words: The Educated Gentleman From The Idea of a University by John Henry Newman A liberal education... Gives a man a clear conscious view of his own opinions and judgments, a truth in developing them, an eloquence in expressing them, and a force in urging them. It teaches him to see things as they are, to go right to the point, to disentangle a skein of thought, to detect what is sophistical, and to discard what is irrelevant. It prepares him to fill any post with credit, and to master any subject with facility. It shows him how to accommodate himself to others, how to throw himself into their state of mind, how to bring before them his own, how to influence them, how to come to an understanding with them, how to bear with them. He is at home in any society, he has common ground with every class; he knows when to speak and when to be silent; he is able to converse, he is able to listen; he can ask a question pertinently, and gain a lesson seasonably, when he has nothing to impart himself; he is ever ready, yet never in the way; he is a pleasant companion, and a comrade you can depend upon; he knows when to be serious and when to trifle, and he has a 'sure tact which enables him to trifle with gracefulness and to be serious with effect. He has the repose of a mind which lives in itself, while it lives in the world, and which has resources for its happiness at home when it cannot go abroad. He has a gift which serves him in public, and supports him in retirement, without which good fortune is but vulgar, and with which failure and disappointment have a charm. Hence it is that it is almost a definition of a gentleman to say he is one who never inflicts pain.... The true gentleman in like manner carefully avoids whatever may cause a jar or a jolt in the minds of those with whom he is cast... His great concern being to make every one at their ease and at home. He has his eyes on all his company; he is tender towards the bashful, gentle towards the distant, and merciful toward the absurd; he can recollect to whom he is speaking; he guards against unseasonable allusions, or topics which may irritate; he is seldom prominent in conversation, and never wearisome... He has no ears for slander or gossip.... He is never mean or little in his disputes, never takes unfair advantage, never mistakes personalities OK sharp sayLESSON DEPARTMENT ings for arguments, or insinuates evil which he dare not say out. He observes the maxim of the ancient sage, that we should ever conduct ourselves towards our enemy as if he were one day to be our friend. He has too much good sense to be affronted at insults, he is too well employed to remember injuries... He is patient, forbearing, and resigned, on philosophical principles; he submits to pain, because it is inevitable, to bereavement, because it is irreparable, and to death, because it is his destiny. For Class Discussion What are the specific qualities of courtesy in human relations as identified by Newman that all people should cultivate? To what extent may and should these qualities be displayed within the family as well as outside the family? Discuss fully. Is there anything wrong with this "ideal" person as described by Newman? Are there times when each person needs to speak out in defense of his convictions and beliefs even at the cost of offending? Are there times when a person has an obligation to stand vigorously for truth and right and principle even though unpleasantness and anger or harm may result? Notes on Other Selections The remaining six selections are also very significant in exploring ideals and problems of courtesy in human relations. Undoubtedly most class leaders may want to use some of these in addi-. Tion to or in the place of the Newman essay. However, space does not here permit more than brief reference to the six selections, and class leaders will need to study them in Out of the Best Books, Volume II. The first selection is "The Use of Force,' a short story by William Carlos Williams. It dramatizes how a doctor, in a brutal psychological-physical violation of courtesy, loses emotional control and forces a young NOVEMBER 1966 girl to open her mouth so that he can examine her throat for diphtheria. The principal significance of the story is not the conflict with the girl but the loss of emotional control by the doctor, which ends—as such a loss of control often does—in a deterioration of human dignity as well as of courtesy. Class Discussion How might you have handled the situation? The next selection is "The Leader of the People," a beautifully written story by John Steinbeck. Here we see a family containing much love but also some serious problems of discourtesy. There is a stern and strong father who is too harsh and cold in his relationship with his son and is openly disrespectful to his fatherin-law. There is a mother who is much warmer, sweeter, and more loving, but who lacks the tact, wisdom, and strength necessary to guide the family as she would like. There is a lovable young boy who worships his grandfather as a story-telling hero, but who is caught between the tensions and conflicts within the family. There is a rough but wise farm-hand named Billy Buck. And there is an old grandfather of "granite dignity" who fascinates his grandson but annoys his son-inlaw by endlessly telling the same old tales of the past when he was "leader of the people." Altogether it is an excellent story exploring problems in human relationships within a family. Class Discussion Could the mother have done any- 876 thing more to ease the situation at that time? The third selection is a poem, "The Death of the Hired Man" by Robert Frost, which shows the contrasting warmth of increased courtesy. Again there is an old man who is pathetically in the way, and there is a difference of opinion between a husband and wife with the wife more sympathetic and understanding than the husband. This poem and the Steinbeck story invite close comparison to see what in the natures of the sad old man, the husband, and the wife result in more courtesy in the one selection than in the other. The fourth selection, "My Last Duchess" by Robert Browning is a brilliant and world-famous poem (dramatic monologue) which penetratingly explores two personalities in marriage, and in doing so points up some problems: and weaknessess of which all married couples should be wary. The husband sees his late wife as flirtatious, frivolous, fickle, unappreciative, shallow, immaturely naive, and perhaps even unfaithful. But we can see her as gracious, friendly, warm, sensitive, and youthfully lovely. Similarly, the husband sees himself as admirable, a man to be honored, respected, even worshiped. But we see him as proud, snobbish, arrogant, haughty, egotistical, scheming, shrewd, selfish, materialistic, possessive, jealous, revengeful, and cruel. Also included are two poems by Ogden Nash— mostly for fun. Underneath the clever fun, however, there is in each poem a thread of seriousness that relates to courtesy. Note to Cultural Refinement Class Leaders: Lesson 2 for November in the Northern Hemisphere, April in the Southern Hemisphere (August 1966 Magazine). We call to your attention that the music on the Relief Society record which is to be considered as a part of Lesson 2 "Refinement Creates Beauty,'' is "Adagio for Strings.'' A commentary of this selection is also found on the record. Lesson 3 for January in the Northern Hemisphere, May in the Southern Hemisphere (October 1966 Magazine). We call to you attention that the picture ''The Bath'' (La Toilette) by Mary Cassatt, is to be considered as a part of Lesson 3 ''Humility Yields Strength." A small reproduction of this painting appears in the September 1966 Relief Society Magazine, page 6&6. > *« A INTRODUCING OY \ Nees ok Be] Sy Christmas: Tree @ Here's a booklet that @ for the first time really | i e ] S @ tells you how to plan and make an excitingly different Christmas tree! Ist time pinted Full color photos of trees. Most apal @ preciated is that many of these refreshonly @ ing ideas can be used by budget con- $] 0 scious families. This booklet tells all i, @ sbout flocking, lights, tree selection, @ ornaments and complete trims. @ AS ADVERTISED IN HOUSE BEAUTIFUL MAG. © 000000 OOOOOOCCOCCe ms Christmas Tree Ideas 4 Post Office Box 6127 Y & @ hes Salt Lake City, Ut. 84106 0000000000 OCOOe COOK ELECTRIC Ses Pots and pans stay "'white glove"' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY ROSE PARADE TOUR December 27 TEMPLE TOUR October 24 HAWAIIAN TOURS November 12 December 2] Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 877 Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10 — 12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of  of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.76 "Wist Ye Not That | Must Be About My Father's Business?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library.. $2.00 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 With., W. Cleon Skousen Feb. 7 Departure MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR SOUTH AMERICAN TOUR. NAME MURDOCK AORIRESS TRAVEL _ STATE HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK October 15 to 30 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Francisco Dec. 27 — Jan. 3 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Diego Dec. 27 — Jan. 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is In a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6 90 Zz 3 60 Z dl j DESERET PEws PRESS — B79 02 9 9 ) 94 92 v Mrs. Ann Crawford Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jennie Giles Sprague Monroe, Utah Miss Jemima Forster Mendon, Utah Mrs. Martha Patterson Head Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Adelia Cowley Gibson Orem, Utah Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Nephi, Utah Mrs. Matilda Sandburg Andrus Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Sandra Anderson Young Richfield, Utah Mrs. Lillian Purdy Bagley Sacramento, California Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Monroe, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Holland Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Willard, Utah Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Elsie Eleanor Oliver Wilcox Bridgeport, Nebraska Mrs. Mary Lewis Marshall Provo, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Sophia Walters Koehler Menlo Park, California Mrs. Charlotte Greenwood Hansen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Swensen Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ella Hoge Budge Boise, Idaho Mrs. Christine Petrea Peterson Kiesel Manti, Utah Mrs. Ellen Brown Berrett North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lillian Wakely Ashby Lund, Nevada Mrs. Elizabeth J. Ashby Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Emily Beckstrom Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Zina Nielsen Cook Provo, Utah Mrs. Belle Wyler Lambourne Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs Amabel Rowell Clark Sydney, Australia Mrs. Clara Parkes Jones Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Myrtle Bowcutt Dean Montpelier, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Simms Tucker Pasadena, California Mrs. Alice Brewer Bunderson St. Charles, Idaho Mrs. Martha Dean Cokeville, Wyoming Mrs. Hilda Kjlberg Olsen Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Mary Peterson Brown Washington, Utah Mrs. Keokee Richards Miller Uniontown, Ohio the finest in L. D. S. REading 0r buy now for Christmas gifts OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol II by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 postpaid anywhere This new book, patterned after the successful first volume, is themed to "Love, Marriage, and the Family." The material will be used with the Cultural Refinement course. Full color illustrations enhance the choice literature and discussion materials prepared by Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas. THAT THEY MIGHT KNOW THEE by Frances Carter Yost $2.25 This wonderful and uplifting book amplifies many of the stories of our scriptures that are only hinted at in the original. A scholarly fictional technique is used to recreate these tales in a faith inspiring manner. TEACH ME by Dorthea Christiansen Murdock $3.50 What began as a series of lessons for nursery-age children in Relief Society has now been expanded into a valuable book for teaching children in the home or at Church. Here is a collection of poems, stories, make-it projects, fingerplays and activities for use by mothers and teachers alike. Illustrated. S222 SSS——,_ 0" from: a "<<a Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake — Book City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California \ 92669. | COMPANY Send me: (0 OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. II eee 90: TERETE AE AT COTTORMQOD. MALL (CO THAT THEY MIGHT KNOW THEE [() TEACH ME SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 717 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 34% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. Ce i i i ) eee teoses ev eee seoe esas eseeseeeeee ee eevee eee eevee eee eee enevres eee eee eevee eee severe ve OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! RS. Nov. Magazine « 
