The, Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: 'Alice Morey Bailey My father looked 'upon. Ie aH that day — | Hi When summer thrust its fulness, green and. Dense, | In leaf and root! And spear. His keen survey From hill to river-bed, from fence to fence, _ Encompassed more | than ripened grain, the field | | Of sun-striped corn, the Jucerne's emerald square.. He saw his furrowed acres sweet with yield, | His handiwork in all things growing AAP | { He said) no baetins word, but. Quiet HHHe 3 Was. In the. Sudden, straightening of his. Stance. || His winter-nurtured plans seemed satisfied And met the sternest measure of his glance. In such a way | think God must have stood "And, looked upon the world and called it good. ' tel: Autumn 'in American Fork Canyon, Utah Transparency by Claire WwW. Noall Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press: Harvest Field Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Dick Scopes Mary: Scopes een re areata = —. — mar — We are presently serving as missionaries in a small town in El Salvador. Several weeks ago we organized the Relief Society here in our branch. Every month when we receive the Magazine, the sisters are anxious to have us translate new recipes into Spanish so they, too, may enjoy the wonderful food ideas that are found in the Magazine. Of course, the missionaries receive their share of the benefits, as the sisters always want to try out their new dishes on us. We just received the good news from the mission president's wife that the Magazine will soon be available in Spanish for the sisters here in Latin America. We have received several subscriptions already, and the women here are really enthused about the idea of having the Magazine written in their own language. David F. Corrigan Erick Ronnie Soto Sonsonate, El Salvador In the May 1966 issue, Sister Leah Green expressed' beautifully the "Thoughts of a_ Latter-day Saint Mother.'' May | add my agreement to her heartfelt prayer. We are truly blessed sisters to have the opportunity to seek and receive guidance through the Holy Spirit towards being good wives and rearing our children as our Father in heaven would have us do. Being a convert of three years, and mother of four precious spirits, | am thankful for the gospel plan. Mrs. Laretta Johnson Napa, California | must thank Sister Margery S. Stewart for the heart-warming, inspirational story ''Wheat for the Wise'' (serial concluded in July 1966). |! Am sure if she realized the joy she has given so many, she would know, indeed, that she has stored up rewards in heaven. Verna V. Rogers Barstow, California 642 | am delighted with the lessons outline (in the June Magazine) for the coming season. | stand to be improved 100 per cent this year through the lessons. Every lesson is just what | have been needing. Mrs. B. V. Peterson Ottawa, Canada They say everyone has a "'look-alike," and after reading in the July Magazine the article "Songs My Mother Sang," | realize we may have, also, '"'doalikes."" The way this mother sang and the songs she sang were identical to the favorites of my family. | recall at Christmastime, | was training my daughter to dry the silverware, and the tune 'Silver Bells' was very popular. My lyrics went like this '"'Silverware. Silverware it's drying time in the kitchen...."" These melodious tones brought my young one running and smiling. Song had made work a joy. Mayda Reeves Idaho Falls, Idaho | thank you with gratitude and happiness for the article on "The Gleaners'' (June 1966, by Floyd Breinholt). It was one of the bright spots of my day, and | have turned to it many times since. One need of the women in the world today is a re-emphasis of the cultural aspects in this life of ours. We truly need to ponder more deeply the gentle beauty found in art. Kay Peterson Los Angeles, California Every month a Relief Society Magazine is being sent to me since years ago. | do love it, and today!| feel overwhelmed with joy receiving the Magazine from unknown sisters. Reading it improves my English language, and best of all, it leads me into a fine garden of heavenly flowers. Margarida Christina Larsen Londrina, Parana, Brazil 

Tne Relief Society Magazine Volume 53 September 1966 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 645 The Testimony of a Prophet 647 International Council of Women Conference Belle S. Spafford 669 Hawaii—Land of Flowers Claire W. Noall Fiction 655 Always Be Near Me Frances C. Yost 663 Tell Me of Love Chapter 3 Rosa Lee Lloyd 693 Bird Dramas Rose A. Openshaw General Features 642 From Near and Far 659 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 660 Editorial: Development Through Service Marianne C. Sharp 662 Notes to the Field: Visual Aids—Spiritual Living Course Cultural Refinement Textbook and Audio-Visual Aids 696 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities The Home - Inside and Out 677 A Family Tapestry Carolyn Durham Peters 678 Blossoms for Lasting Beauty Myrene T. Alvord 682 Mexican Holiday Bazaar 684 A Feast From Florida Olive W. Burt 686 The Bath (La Toilette) Mary Cassatt 688 Woman With Plants Grant Wood. 689-690 Commentaries on Paintings Floyd E. Breinholt 690 Aunt Nellie's Raisin-Rice Custard Alta Williams 692 Ellis F. Nielsen—Maker of Toys, Pillows, and Quilts Lesson Department 703 Spiritual Living Light and Truth Roy W. Doxey 709 Visiting Teacher Message "Obtain a Knowledge of History..." Alice Colton Smith 710 Homemaking A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Hazel S. Cannon 713 Social Relations From Virtue to Virtue Alberta H. Christensen 717 Cultural Refinement—No Lesson for December Poetry 641 His Furrowed Acres Alice Morrey Bailey Arrowhead, Peggy Tangren, 654; First Day at School, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 668; Stature, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 680; Young Child, Christie Lund Coles, 681; Comfort During Stress, Kathryn Kay, 690; September Snow, Beulah Huish Sadleir, 695. 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section'1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

THE TESTIMONY OF A PROPHET Birthday Congratulations to President David 0. McKay September 8, 1966 Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be a seer, and a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the church (D&C 107: 92). @On this ninety-third birthday of President David O. McKay, Relief Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend to him their love and their appreciation for his prophetic counsel. With gratitude and rejoicing, the women of the Church recall at this birthday time the teachings and the testimony of the Prophet who dwells among us, and who has traveled to the continents and the islands 645 SEPTEMBER 1966 of the sea—to the many nations—declaring his steadfast faith in the restored gospel. As a special witness, ordained as prophet, seer, and revelator, he has spoken with authority and inspiration as one called in these latter-days to declare that the Redeemer lives and has placed upon the earth a knowledge of his plan of salvation. President McKay's testimony is a light and an illumination for all who are striving to perfect their own understanding of the gospel and to plan their lives in accordance with divine direction. Throughout the years of his ministry among the saints and during his world-wide journeys, he has widened the horizons of those who have heard his voice, and has lifted to higher aspirations the spiritual yearnings of those who seek a true and eternal knowledge of the gospel. Many of these treasures of truth — words of testimony — have become a heritage of wisdom and spiritual direction. On this occasion of President McKay's birthday, we consider again a sparkling garland from his prophetic gems of truth, and we are strengthened anew by his testimony of belief in Jesus Christ and the restored gospel: I know he lives and his power is potent; that he is the Son of God, and that he has restored in this dispensation the complete plan of salvation. As surely as you can tune in on the radio and hear voices from afar, so sure am I that God our Father lives, and the soul of man can commune with him through the Holy Spirit. I give you that as my testimony; I know it. I testify to you that God lives, and that he is guiding this Church, that he has inspired those at the head, and that he will continue to inspire them and lead them. It is in this sense of unwavering trust that I refer to faith in Christ as the most important need of the world — a belief that determines a man's religion. It is more than a mere feeling. It is power that moves to action and should be in human life the most basic of all motivating forces.... I commend you to think seriously about these matters. They give comfort and solace which can be obtained in no other way. God has spoken. The day of Israel is here, and the coming of the Son of Man is not far off. How many years it matters not. It is nearby. We must do our part and prepare for it. The greatest event of the nineteenth century was the appearing of two heavenly Beings to the boy Prophet Joseph Smith, revealing the personal identity respectively of God the Eternal Father and of his Son Jesus Christ. As Relief Society women who have been privileged to hear and bear record of the counsel and the testimony of President McKay, we wish for him on his birthday much happiness and contentment and the prayers of the saints for his welfare. Truly, we are thankful that a prophet dwells among us. 646 REPORT International Council of Women Conference May 14-26, 1966 PE ER TL ID AEP IE ORR NOT OTT LE ROO EE ELEN DLE GLI LL, President Belle S. Spafford @ The International Council of Women (ICW) held its 26th Triennial Conference May 14-26, 1966, in Teheran, Iran, at the invitation of the Princess Ashraf, chairman of the High Council of Women of Iran and twin sister of the Shah. Queen Farah, the beautiful wife of the Shah, was patron of the conference. She gave the opening address, followed by an address by the Princess. The Queen and the Princess attended a number of the meetings and entertained the delegates at an elaborate buffet dinner at the historic and lavish Golestan Palace. The dinner was followed by a colorful program of native music and dancing, presented from a glittering stage in the palace gardens, with participants dressed in native costume. The invitation to hold the conference in Teheran had been accepted by the ICW in recognition of the Iranian women having been granted suffrage in 1963. Prior to 1936 the women were veiled. The liberation of the women is regarded as one of three major programs of the Shah, Reza Pahlavi, designed to promote progress and advance the nation. The other two programs are land reform and a crash program to correct illiteracy. Today several women are in the Iranian Parliament. Iran is predominantly a Moslem country, with Friday observed as the Sabbath. The United States delegation arrived on a Friday and had difficulty getting someone to help with luggage. Iran is a country of sharp contrasts. Teheran, the capital city, retains much that is ancient in character; yet amazes one with much that is new and modern. Many women still wear the Chadorr (a shawl-like wrap which covers the head and body). It is not uncommon to see students with their books and papers studying at night under the street lamps. Yet the city boasts a modern airport, modern hotels, and new _ business __ buildings. Much of the intricate and beautiful ancient Persian arts and crafts has been preserved, such as carpet weaving and ornamental engravings on beautifully designed brass objects. Iranian women are pretty, intelligent, and socially gracious. The conference was attended by approximately 600 women representing national councils of 647 INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE sixty nations. During the conference, seven additional councils were accepted as members. Each participating national council is allowed a number of voting delegates according to the size of its membership. The National Council of Women (NCW) of the United States, one of the largest councils and the oldest member of the ICW, was allowed ten voting delegates with ten alternates. Distinct recognition was accorded the Relief Society and the YWMIA in the appointment of the presidents of these two auxiliaries of the Church as voting delegates. President Spafford was assigned to the section on Social Welfare and President Florence S. Jacobsen to the section on Youth and the Family. Other sections and the voting United States council delegate assigned to each were as follows: Education—Judith S. Randall Health—Dr. Katherine Merritt Housing—Edythe F. Bull Music—Dr. Grace H. Spofford Handicrafts—Vanderbuilt Webb Migration—Valodejmyr Pushkar Finance—Hope Scherry Cinema—Dudley Seldon Press and Public Relations— Countess Alicia Paolozvi International Relations—Mrs. Talbot, wife of Ambassador to Greece Trades and Professions—Dr. Dorothy Gregg Home Economics—Mary B. Wood The announced theme of the conference was "'Ancient Values in a Changing World." As the conference progressed, this theme seemed to become submerged, however, with a new theme, of "Community Development," gaining ascendancy, spearheaded by an impressive address by the chairman of the Danish delegation in which she advocated programs and action that would afford greater opportunity for women in community life, indicating a need for this even in the developed countries. She pointed out that women, in turn, would then be able to make more constructive contributions _ toward community development. The ICW, at its triennial conferences, has always aimed to present factual data in its efforts to focus the attention of organized women on matters related to family and community life and to encourage efforts to correct unfavorable conditions, as well as to chart courses aimed toward improving family and community life. Resolutions designed to aid in the accomplishment of these purposes are drawn up in the respective sectional meetings and adopted, amended, or rejected in the plenary sessions. No national council, however, can be committed to any cause or project recommended by the ICW except by its own vote. The right to vote or abstain from voting on any resolution is an inherent right of national councils holding ICW membership. The delegates were informed, public-spirited women, holding positions of distinction and influence in their respective countries. Many were members of General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford and President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association departing from New York City to attend the meetings of the International Council of Women. 649 SEPTEMBER 1966 their parliaments. Each seemed eager to understand the problems of the others and to work unitedly in a spirit of friendship for goals of common _ importance. Traditions, cultures, degrees of development, differing social, economic, and political conditions made it difficult, at times, for delegates to come together on resolutions that all could fully support. In the plenary sessions, program participants spoke feelingly of the importance of good home and family life; but, at the same time, they advanced ideas and made proposals for programs that would increase the participation of women in community life and take them more and more from their homes and their children. The discussions in the Social Welfare Section assumed a definite aspect of moral welfare, with the varied social implications. The Convenor, Madame Droin of Switzerland, summarized reports of the participating councils on birth control and prostitution, which had been designated areas for study and factfinding for the last three-year period. The study of birth control had been initiated at the Washington Conference three years ago because of the inadequacy of production and economic resources in some countries to meet the demands of a rapidly growing population. Prostitution seemed to be of importance to organized women in view of the increases of venereal diseases in many countries, and the problem, in some of the developing countries, of girls being attracted from rural areas to urban centers by the seemingly better opportunities there, only to find themselves in- 650 adequately equipped to take advantage of the job opportunities and to cope with life in the cities while separated from families and friends. Under these circumstances, a number of them were turning to prostitution. Reports of participating councils indicated that prostitution is declining. Delegates admitted, however, that sex promiscuity appeared to be on the increase, creating serious social problems in its wake. The Social Welfare Section discussions led to a motion, in the section that the study of birth control be no longer pursued by the International Council of Women. It was the opinion that this matter would be best left to the respective national councils to deal with in their own countries according to needs and circumstances, taking into account religious viewpoints. It was further decided no longer to pursue the study of prostitution. A resolution finalizing the study of this subject was adopted. Delegates were aroused over the increase in sexual promiscuity. It was agreed that recommendation be made to the plenary session that the next three-year study center around the following general divisions: Promiscuity—contributing factors, and related social evils and treatment programs. Community Development, including emphasis on productive leisure-time activities. Also, the legal aspects of child placements would be considered by the Laws and Suffrage Section. Delegates in the Child and Family Section talked of ways of making the home the honored Her Majesty Queen Farah; Mrs. Erwin M. Schuller of Great Britain, President, International Council of Women; Princess Ashraf of Iran. Place in the community, how to establish family stability, and home problems arising where a mother works outside the home, and the need of care for children. Three codes of conduct worked out by parents and children in three United States communities on standards of dress, dating, morals, driving, and school studles were presented, President Jacobsen said. The Section of Health was of particular interest and national health and medical programs, including the Medicare program of the United States, were explained. Discussions followed, which pointed up a need for more hospital and nursing home facilities; more nurses—both professional and_ semi-professional (licensed practical nurses); more effective use of available nursing resources; more training programs in home nursing; more intensive public health education programs. The variance in nurse training programs was very pronounced, ranging from a few weeks in one of the developing cquntries to four years in some of the developed countries for socalled registered nurses. On the whole, the resolutions passed in the plenary sessions were based on factual information, thoughtfully prepared, and worthy of the support of the international women. The entire conference had excellent official recognition. Delegates were entertained, in addition to the dinner given by 651 SEPTEMBER 1966 the Queen and the Princess, by the Mayor of Teheran, and by distinguished Iranian women in their homes. A highlight of the visit to Iran was the party given by the wife of the American Ambassador and the American women attached to the Embassy. The party was held in the American Embassy garden where Persian rugs were spread over the lawns. The tables were beautiful and abundantly laden with American food. Each American delegate was assigned an American woman attached to the Embassy as hostess. Mrs. Preston Cannady, the wife of Colonel Cannady, Chief of the Iranian Gendarme Mission, was hostess for President Spafford and President Jacobsen. She proved a blessing to us— generous in providing a car and driver for our convenience, entertaining us a number of times in her spacious and beautiful home, advising us regarding food and water, and showing countless other considerations. A_ Protestant herself, she took us to the Protestant Church on the Sabbath (Sunday). Later, she located for us, through the Catholic priest, a branch of our Church, which gave us the opportunity to attend sacrament meeting and to meet with Relief Society and MIA sisters. This was a great joy to us. One especially interesting experience came during the conference when an Iranian woman, Mrs. Hadjar Tarbiat, a member of the Parliament, privately told Sister Spafford of her efforts on behalf of unveiling Iranian women and later in achieving suffrage for them. She said she did considerable research on the sub- 652 ject of suffrage. In her research she read of the activities of Utah women (Mormon) in obtaining national suffrage in the United States. She gave Sister Spafford her card and urged that they communicate with one another in the interest of the proper use of the franchise. It is impressive to contemplate the power inherent in the conference through its connection with sO many important organizations of women of the world. Participation was a great experience for Sister Jacobsen and Sister Spafford. Our trip was made more pleasurable and profitable through our visits en route home to the Southern Far East, the Korean, and also the Northern Far East Missions. We had opportunity to meet with the Relief Society and MIA leaders located conveniently near the meeting places in Hong Kong, Taipei, Korea, Tokyo, and Manila. We attended Sunday School in Taipei in a beautiful and comfortable new meetinghouse. We also attended a district quarterly conference in a beautiful new meetinghouse in Manila. Generally speaking, we found the Relief Society and MIA functioning well. We were pleased with the good quality leadership of these two auxiliaries. We had a number of choice and deeply moving personal experiences, which bore witness to the fact that the Lord is watching over his work in these faraway lands; that his protective care was about us, and that the gospel and what it does for the individual who accepts and lives it, is the greatest miracle on the face of the earth today. * —. Ah Korean Mission Relief Society District Board | Seated, left to right: Sister Lee; Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford; Shirley Palmer; President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association; Louise Roos; Sister Kim. Standing, left to right: Sisters Choi, Pak, Kim, Chung, Chung, Kim. Seoul (Korea) May 30, 1966 MW coh Faery "eee 1 < ' hy a 4 na '& = => y * -: —s ht dot, —. 2 oe" — as, 3 Southern Far East Mission, Baguio (Philippine Islands) Branch Bazaar May 28, 1966 Left to right: Aida Huliganga, Susana Hiyon; Ceil Jenson; Wilma Galimba; Lilian Mac-Nae; Josephine Willis; Tuesita Colar Ganio; Cely Ceba del Rosario. ' Northern Far East Mission, Tokyo (Japan) Branch Relief Society Assembled at the Mission Home, June 2, 1966 Second row, beginning third from the left: President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association; Judy N. Komatsu, Supervisor of the women's auxiliaries, Northern Far East Mission; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Toshiko Yanakido, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society. For éenturies — tost, — ' ~~ This tured stone 'Has told' me What |. Should have While li ing in this quiet wood To sounds | have not understood; Fo the stealthy pad of a hunter's feet -~On vanished trails. 2) And now we meet Beneath this ancient witness tree That shadowed him, and shelters me. The measured bending of the bow, The zinging as the arrows go Straight and final, the heavy breath Of fallen deer, the gasp of death — | hear — - How could | not have known? Orest's memory is my own. Le on a a ce ~ Always Be Near Me i wos =] C Frances C. Yost ays @ Maurine Martin opened her eyes to a perfect morning. But her own day couldn't be perfect, unless she could iron out one great big problem between herself and Con. Tomorrow she wanted to leave for a three-day art convention. That is, she would if Con would give his consent for her to go. She surely wasn't going without his good wishes... And his blessing. Maurine had looked forward to the convention since the first day she had read about it, oh, just months ago. Everything she had done, every article of clothing she had bought or made since then, had been with the idea of the convention in mind. She had even stocked the deep freeze with goodies and main dishes to be used in her absence, even though Con was mighty handy as a cook himself. Con could manage alone, that wasn't the problem. It was simply that he never wanted her to go, to leave him. Maurine's very soul hungered to go to this art center for instruction. She saw herself as a rare painting not yet finished, needing a bold, understanding brush to bring out its three diRFC res mensional reality. Attending this art show, these study classes where she would meet other struggling artists, she thought, would be helpful. There she would not only be able to study the finest paintings which would be on exhibit, but some of the finest instructors were scheduled to be there and hold classes. Yes, Maurine thought, she had worked and planned and _ prepared and hoped and dreamed, but she hadn't prepared Con for her going. Maurine folded her arms over her breast in a prayerful attitude as she snuggled under the covers. Her voice whispered, "Three full days of art study, if only I can g@,"' It had been a restless night for her. When Maurine had mentioned the art convention, a strained silence ensued. Maurine had hoped for a chance to talk things over before the day began; but when sleep came to her toward morning, Con had slipped out without waking her, and no doubt had started his busy day. Con was always busy. Maurine realized: she should have told Con about the art con- 655 SEPTEMBER 1966 vention months ago. She would have, but Con never liked her to leave him, even to see her folks for a few days. When she returned he welcomed her warmly and everything was heavenly until she mentioned going someplace again. So Maurine had dreamed of this art convention and made minute, detailed preparation without bringing up the subject. Yesterday, on Monday, she had finally found courage to mention it. Tomorrow, Wednesday, she would have to leave, if she were going. Con didn't know how important art was to her deep inside. Last night when she had brought up the subject of going, Con had been annoyed. He became stoney. Maurine wondered what the day would bring. Well, she must pull herself from the warm bed and meet the day, whatever its problems. The Martin home was attractive. It was the farm home that Con had always known. It was a good farm, and, since Con was an only child and his father and mother were both dead, it belonged to them entirely no mortgages, no debts. They had much to be thankful for, and they still had their youth, and the hopes of a family of their own. Maurine slipped on a pretty housedress, primped a little in front of the mirror, and went to the kitchen. The old farm kitchen resembled a cheery Currier and Ives print, fragrant and wholesome. Maurine started making French toast. Con especially liked her French toast. Someone 656 had said the way to a man's heart was through his stomach. A person could try. But Maurine was rather certain it would take more than food to break through Con's cocoon of silence. ".. Maurine glanced out of the window. Con was coming toward the house swinging the milk buckets, but he wasn't whistling as he usually did. She went to the back door and held it open for him. "Good morning, Con darling." Maurine smiled with affection. Con washed and sat down at his place. Usually he showed her the courtesy of holding her chair for her. "How is everything outside this beautiful moming?" No reply. "Any new little calves?" she asked with sparkling eye transmittance. No contact. "No." Con's eyes reflected the sour grapefruit before him. "T made French toast!" "Didn't need to put yourself out."' Mournful facial expression. "Why no trouble at all. I simply love to cook for you," she said with a wasted smile. "Are you plowing today?" with deepest interest. "No. Planting." Sulkiness darkened the depths of his eyes. "Then you'll be really hungry at dinnertime. What would you like?" "Too busy to stop," he mumbled. "Then I'll bring lunch to the field!'" Her voice was helpful. "Don't bother. Too busy to stop to eat." Con took his hat from the hanger behind the door and was gone. Maurine stood in the doorway and watched until he mounted his tractor and rode off. Arms akimbo, she muttered to the great outdoors in general: 'What does one do when a man just won't communicate?" Maurine did the dishes and made the bed, and tidied up in general. Since she had neither a chick nor a child to wait upon, and since she had planned her going away step by step for weeks, her housework was completely caught up. Why, there wasn't a speck of dust to be seen. Her clothes were ready to pack, but she didn't plan on doing that until she had the "go" sign from Con. Why did men her special man, make life complicated for her? Maurine tried to settle herself to knitting a sweater she was ALWAYS BE NEAR ME making as a surprise for Con, but the hours straggled on, instead of lilting as they usually did. As she sat in the tiny genuine Early American rocker that had been Con's mother's when he was a baby, she wondered what the older Mrs. Martin was like. Con's mother had died when he was just a slip of a boy, Con had said. Con had been reared by his father. He had taken him out in the winter to feed the cattle, and night and morning to milk the cows. He had taught him manners, saw to it that he had a fine education. Con had learned 'thow to do household tasks as well as farm tasks. There wasn't anything Con couldn't whip up in the kitchen, if he decided to do so. Then why was he so balky about her going away for a few days? Maurine glanced at the quaint china closet with the Bavarian china service with gilt rims and faded rosebuds. Con said he had a vague recollection of his father saying it had been a wedding present, but they had never used the dishes. Maurine walked across to the china closet and turned the key and opened the glass door. She brushed her finger across a fine teacup. There was a film of dust that she hadn't noticed before. The china closet was supposed to be dust-proof. Even though the house was shining clean, this china closet needed a bit of tidying. Carefully Maurine lifted the china out of the closet, piece by piece, shelf by shelf. She polished each piece carefully. It was as she moved a large platter at the back that she found the picture. There was no mistaking it. It was a picture 657 SEPTEMBER 1966 of Con's parents. No doubt it was their wedding picture, for his mother wore a lovely white satin dress, and held a single rose. Had someone deliberately hidden this picture? She must talk to Con. It should be framed and hung out to be enjoyed, instead of hidden away behind the china platter like this. Had Con hidden the picture? Or had his father? Could it be that this house, the whole house was too humanly vacant, too lonesome for Con to bear when she was gone? Was Con too much of a man even to mention it? No wonder he was always unhappy at her leaving. Time like a weaver's shuttle had woven the morning into past tapestry. She must hurry and prepare the finest hot lunch that could possibly be carried to the field. Con, too busy to stop working, would, nevertheless, be hungry as a wolf. Maurine hurried like a nimble little housewife should at eleven-thirty on a week morning. "T brought a hot dinner," Maurine announced, when Con stopped the tractor. "Good girl! I'm hungry as a hungry miner." "T brought the card table and folding chairs." "Tl help you get them. We can set them up here in the shade of the tractor."' Maurine saw the change in Con. Had he come to an understanding of her as he worked in the field, as she had come to a clearer understanding of him as she had cleaned out the dear old china closet? For some time they sat in 658 silence enjoying the food Maurine had carefully prepared. Then Con spoke: ''Maurine, last night you mentioned some sort of art convention. What was it, a three-day course that you wanted to take? I believe you said it started Thursday morning and finished off sometime Saturday?" "Yes, I did mention it, Con." Maurine studied his face. Con was a handsome man, even with the dirt of the day upon him his lean brown face under thick waves of dark, unruly hair. He had won his callouses as an honest, hard-working farmer and enjoyed the fruits of his labor. ''You mentioned going on the bus tomorrow, so that you would be there for classes Thursday morning." "Yes, I did, Con." "Well by nightfall, working as I have, I can have the spring planting all done. Would you like me to drive you into the city?" "Why, Con, that would be wonderful!" "There's a stock show I'd kind of like to take in." They laughed together heartily. ''Maurine, I did a lot of thinking this moming. I believe I planted all my sulkiness under this deep loam, and I'm sure it's too cussed to grow." He laughed. "T've had a lot of attributes of a mule, but I believe, with your patience, I can overcome most of them. I'll try to treat my pretty wife better, be more considerate. But I have to admit the whole place seems like a grave when you are away." Suddenly she realized that Con's hating to have her go was one way of showing his love! Ramona W. Cannon Birgit Nilsson, Swedish soprano, is rated by world-renowned critics as one of the greatest living vocal artists. She has sung in most of the world's famous opera houses, and her roles have included a wide variety of impersonations: Salome; Leonore (in ''Fidelio'); Amelia (in ''Ballo''); Lady Macbeth: Isolde; Brunhilde; Electra (in '"Idomeneo"'); Elektra (by Richard Strauss); Elisabeth (in ''Tannhauser''); Agathe (in ''Freischitz''); and many others. She has mastered _ several languages, and her voice has been described as ''soaring and dramatic, supreme in tone and emotion." She has been placed in classification with such artists as Lehmann, Fremstad, Flagstad, and Nordica. Helen Klos, Long Island, New York, is noted for her driving skill and for her high safety record. Each school day she drives a bus with sixty kindergarten children aboard. She insists that all the children sit quietly and keep their hands inside the car or bus. She is careful to adjust her speed to road and weather conditions. "If you are late, you can make it up,"' she says, ''but if someone is killed or injured, there will be no chance to make it up." Stephanie Sebastian, nineteen, Hollywood, California, is a featured pianist for the New York Philharmonic Young People's concerts, with Leonard Bernstein conducting. Carolyn Sadow, a librarian at the reference desk at the New York Public Library, is enthusiastic over her work in the field of ''facts and knowledge.'' She contrasts her present career with her former position in fashion advertising, as a change from a ''make-believe'' world to the challenging realm of reality. The Life of Emily Dickinson, by her brother Austin (Atheneum Press), is a delightful account of the home life and characteristics of a well-loved and much-admired poet, a biography '"'intended for all kinds of intelligent, perceptive people.'' Austin's appraisal of his sister is intensified by his consideration of her ''not only as a writer of poetry, but as a speaker of instant poetry." Nancy Larson, formerly of Magna, Utah, is assistant press attaché at the American Embassy in Rome, Italy. In order to improve herself for her position, she studies Italian two hours a day. Before going to Rome, Miss Larson was a White House secretary. Mary Hemingway, formerly a war correspondent in England, is a journalist of wide experience. Having lived in many parts of the world, she has concluded, about her fellow American women, that they are not 'gentle enough.'"' She feels that they would succeed better if they gave their menfolk ''more affection, support, and admiration." She also feels that all women should become expert cooks. 659 660 EDITORIAL Volume 53 September 1966 Number 9 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Etna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner trene C. Lioyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Beilva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West @ At the organization of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "*... It is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms." Some Latter-day Saint women looking at the work of Relief Society decide, ''I'll not join Relief Society for they expect too much of the members." It is true that membership in Relief Society, whose motto is "Charity never faileth,'' does impose on all members a dedication to service. Wise is the woman who joins relief Society joyfully, who has accepted the obligations and is prepared to perform the duties requested of her, whether it be calling on sisters in the homes as a visiting teacher, comforting the sorrowing and assisting at funerals, accompanying someone to the doctor's office, caring for children whose mother is sick or hospitalized, serving in the Relief Society nursery, cooking, or decorating tables, washing dishes, visiting the sick and homebound, sitting up at night with the sick, sewing for a Through S a oo? Ervice bazaar, demonstrating teaching a skill she may possess, singing in a Singing Mothers chorus, canning or sewing for Welfare, or teaching a class. These and other duties come to members as directed by the Relief Society president. They all involve work, some of it hard work, some wearisome. Some duties tax the abilities of the giver and cause her to go beyond herself. But after the work come the blessings. A warm glow of satisfaction for the work accomplished, a deepened awareness of the viewpoint or even suffering of others, a fulfilling of the need of another. Greater understanding leads within the door of wisdom. The grand key words for the Society to act upon, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, are, ''Said Jesus, Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'' Can one imagine any service which the Lord, who gave his life for man, would refuse to give — the Savior who said "'... Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant'"' (Matt. 20:26)? Experience teaches that the best way for a woman to overcome her own sorrows and trials is to turn her attention to one less fortunate, to serve others. Service brings healing to the heavy heart. The sympathies which God has planted in his daughters' bosoms are enlarged through serving the organization which the Lord has given to his daughters. Sympathy expressed in a tangible way buoys up the spirit of the giver. Each unselfish service, each comforting assurance, each labor of love to lighten the load of the unfortunate, distressed, sorrowing, needy, the disheartened, strengthens character and raises a bulwark and a safeguard against sins so prevalent in the world today — sins of indifference, insensitivity, callousness, and selfishness. Consecration to service brings personal growth and refines, develops, and nourishes the soul of a woman. —M. C. S. 661 VISUAL AIDS—SPIRITUAL LIVING COURSE A picture kit has been prepared to correlate with the Spiritual Living lessons at a cost of $1.25 postpaid (not air mail). Orders are to be placed direct with the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110. CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEXTBOOK AND AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS A one-year textbook, Out of the Best Books, Volume Il: "'Love, Marriage, and the Family,'"' by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas is now available for use with the Cultural Refinement course. Orders for the textbook should be placed direct with the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and will be filled as soon after the first of September as possible. The price of the textbook is $2.95 postpaid. (not air mail) A kit (containing four colored pictures 11" x 14'') and a 33-4 LP record, which will contain musical selections that correlate with the Cultural Refinement course, are available for purchase at the Division of Communications Services, 291 HRCB, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601. The combined price for the picture kit and the record is $3.50 postpaid. (See advertisement on page 718 of this magazine.) ERRATA—ERRORS IN PERCENTAGES—MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1966 Through an oversight, subscriptions for Middleton Ward, Nampa Stake, were omitted in total for the stake. Subscriptions should have been 1,000, with 980 members, resulting in 102% instead of 96%. This would place them with the ten stakes with the highest number of subscriptions. Also, Melbourne Stake (Australia) was erroneously listed with 72%, and it should have been 87%. Also Juarez Stake should have been listed as 100% instead of 74%. 662 Chapter 3 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram from her Aunt Isabelle asking her to fly home at once, due to an emergency in the family. Her friend Betz Condon goes with her. While traveling, they meet Carolyn Bridges, matron at a hospital in Perth. During a brief stopover in Fiji, they are introduced to Dan Fargo, an engineer, and friend of Grandfather Ridgehaven. Mr. Fargo goes with them to Sydney, and Julie learns that her fiance Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. @ The big airplane circled over Sydney Harbor preparing to land at Kingsford Smith Aerodrome, five miles to the south. "Oh, look!" Betz exclaimed. "Tt's like San Francisco, with all those ships and beaches!"' "More magnificent," Big Dan said. "The water is a_ brighter blue. Notice those two craggy cliffs that let the ocean in. And those beaches have hard white sand, like crystal. There's only one bridge across our harbor. We Rosa Lee Lloyd call it old Coathanger's Bridge. And we have a whole fleet of ferries to take our people back and forth. Magnificent!" he repeated, looking at Betz. "If this is your first glimpse of the eastern part of Australia you must be awe-struck." "T am," Betz said. "As you say, it is magnificent." He turned to Julie. "Look below," he said. 'Let pride in your home lift your heart. Your grandfather's house is out there to the left on Rushcutter's Bay. What a poetic spot that is. Many tourists compare it to the Riviera, but..." "But you think it's grander," Betz cut in, laughing. "T do!" Big Dan nodded. "And so do I," Carolyn agreed. "This is our home," Julie murmured. "Forgive us, Betz, if we brag a little. Big Dan, that ultra modern structure. Down there must be our new Opera House. It looks different from up here." 663 SEPTEMBER 1966 "It is,' Carolyn chimed in. "They say it is the largest cultural building in the world." They circled the harbor again, then flew to the south and landed gently at the aerodrome on scheduled time. "Remind me to compliment that pilot,'' Big Dan said to Carolyn as they walked down the steps and out across the tarmac toward the gate where people were waiting to greet passengers. Julie was weak and sick at heart. Her feet dragged and her eyes stung with tears. How could she greet them? What could she say? Sue saw Grandfather first, head and shoulders above the crowd, even though he was very elderly. Then she saw Aunt Isabelle beside him, so pale and thin she hardly recognized her. Oh, Aunt Isabelle, her heart cried silently, what has happened to you? Uncle Geoffrey and Wally stood with Aunt Tricia between them. Uncle John and Aunt Cleo were there, too, with Brown and Kip. Aunt Cleo was _ holding Brown's hand, and Kip was high on Uncle John's shoulder. Tenderly, feeling his wrinkled cheek against her own. He held her tenderly for a long moment without speaking. ""My child," he said at last in his fine old English. "I can see that Big Dan has told you about Ron. We are all here, ready to help."' "Julie...." Aunt Isabelle touched her shoulder. Her head was high but her voice was tight and her breathing was labored. Little Brown said in his piping voice: "We've made a _ special treat. Big secret. Something you will like." "Oh, you darlings!" Julie bent to kiss him, and when she stood up again Uncle John gave her a good hard squeeze. "We'll have to fatten you up," he said. Julie noticed Aunt Cleo's hair was brilliant yellow again, but she told her how pretty she was, anyway. Then she was in Aunt Tricia's sweet motherly arms and Uncle Geoffrey was patting her shoulder. Wally, standing close by, said: "Hi! Monkey Face." "Hello, Redhead!" Julie answered. Then she turned to Betz, Carolyn, and Big Dan. Julie's heart lifted in spite of "<,{This is my family," she said her grief about Ron. This was her family. These were her dear ones who shared her worry and heartbreak, and who stood willing and ready to go with her through any hardship to bring Ron home again. She looked from one dear face to another. She saw the love and compassion in their eyes. Then she ran through the gate with outstretched arms to meet them. "Grandfather," she whispered 664 proudly. "Even this punk redhead is my own cousin. And these are my dear friends—Carolyn Bridges from Perth, and my roommate Betz Condon. You all know Big Dan." A flicker of apprehension came to Aunt Isabelle's eyes when she saw Carolyn. But why? Julie wondered. Aunt Isabelle had never been afraid of anything or | anybody. Grandfather's eyebrows lifted quizzically as he looked at Betz. "Betz will be our guest," Julie said candidly, deciding that it was best to tell them at once. Aunt Isabelle's eyes widened in surprise, but Grandfather said in his grand old manner, bowing slightly: "Welcome, Miss Condon. Thank you for coming with our Julie." Betz answered, smiling: 'Julie has told me so much about each one of you I feel that I know you all. So please call me Betz." "Fair enough," Wally said. "Dinner is at our house," Aunt Cleo said brightly. "Big surprise,' Brown chanted again. "Mummy made cream sponge cake 'cause Julie's here." "Will you ride with us?" Aunt Tricia asked Betz. Julie sighed with relief. Aunt Tricia always knew just what to do to make anyone feel welcome. "I'd love to," Betz answered. "This way," Wally said, taking her arm. "The family chariot is parked a block away." GRANDFATHER and Big Dan sat in the back seat of the Ridgehaven car. Julie sat in front with Aunt Isabelle, who drove. It is strange, Julie thought as they started through the heavy traffic, how good it is to be back. Busy with the traffic, it was understandable that Aunt Isabelle would be silent on the way to Uncle John's and Aunt Cleo's house. She didn't speak at dinner and ate very little. Julie wondered if she were very angry because she had brought Betz at this time. But that isn't like Aunt Isabelle, Julie thought, with a nagging worry. Aunt Isabelle isn't herself at all. TELL ME OF LOVE Aunt Cleo, in her generous, good-hearted way, had cooked everyone's favorite dish, whether or not they went together. There was a beautiful cream sponge, because Julie liked it; Grandfathers' favorite roast beef, mashed potatoes and gravy, and Yorkshire pudding; Wally's favorite sweet apple dumplings and cream, and then fresh fruit to finish off. Betz looked at Julie when she saw the two desserts, but Julie shook her head before she could say anything that might hurt Aunt Cleo. Just for this one time, Betz could forget her figure was a size ten. After her second mouthful, Betz whispered to Julie: "I've had enough starch to stiffen my spine!" "I know," Julie whispered back. "But this is Aunt Cleo's ' way of showing that she loves us." When dinner was over, Grandfather asked everyone to join him in the living room. He was a man of action, and plans were already being carried out in the search for Ron. "Search parties from Perth have been on the job for three days," he explained. ''But the Ridgehavens will have their own search party. Julie, I know you remember that it was your Aunt Isabelle who found you and Ron years ago after the fire, when all others had given up the search. Women, sometimes, have a sixth sense concerning their loved ones. Some call it intuition. Your Grannie called it love. Ron belongs to us. We will never give up until we find him.". He paused for a moment, and 665 SEPTEMBER 1966 Julie noticed, for the first time, that his hand trembled as he touched his forehead with his handkerchief. A moment later he went on in his clear, steady voice: "I wish I could go with you, but Dr. Longworth says I would only be a liability to you at my age. Brown and Kip would be liabilities, too, for the same reason. So they will stay here with me. Aunt Tricia will come to my house and take care of us. The rest of you will fly to our station in Conderra in the morning. I have contacted Dr. George McGregor to meet the plane at the aerodrome twenty miles from the property." There was silence. Everyone looked at Aunt Isabelle, who sat like a statue as though she would break in two if she moved. Her hands were clenched in her lap, and her dark eyes were too big for her pale face. She seemed too shocked to speak or make any sign of protest. Julie's heart reached out to her. Surely Grandfather could see she was not able to go with them and live outback at a station where you had to haul your own water and kill most of the food you ate. Had Grandfather's eyes become so dim he could not see clearly? Julie saw the look that passed between Uncle John, and Uncle Geoffrey, but, as usual, they did not openly question Grandfather's wisdom. Betz was seated beside Julie. Now Grandfather looked at her. His brows drew together, quizzically. "You must make your own decision," he said. "You are welcome to go, but it will not be a pleasure trip. The women will 666 stay at the station house and do the cooking for the searchers. There is no plumbing, and you will have to help with the scrubbing and the washing and sleep on a bunk. But you look well enough to help out. The Amer- - icans I have known have never lacked for courage." Julie held her breath as she watched the conflicting emotions in Betz' face. This was a chance for her to see a part of the world she didn't know existed. But she had made such a fuss over a few ant bites, how would she hold up in the bush? Betz wet her lips as she looked from one person to another, seeking her answer. She ran her fingers through her blond hair and took a deep breath. "I'm sort of a sissy," she said at last. "Julie called me a baby on Fiji—but I want to go. I want to help Julie—all I can. That's what I came for—really. I want to go." "A very good girl!" Grandfather beamed at her. Wally was looking at Betz with his red head tipped to one side, sizing her up. He leaned over and pulled a blond curl at the back of her head. "Ouch!" she yelled, jumping to her feet. "Just testing," he laughed. Big Dan called out: 'We'll get even with him, Betz." Grandfather motioned for them to kneel beside their chairs, and all were reverently quiet as his low, cultured voice asked Heavenly Father for his guidance and protection on their journey into the outback in search of Ron. Back in her own bed in Grand- father's house, Julie lay staring into the darkness. Aunt Isabelle had seemed to revive after Grandfather's prayer. Her eyes were brighter, and a slight color had come into her cheeks. She talked a little about the properties on the way home and was gracious to Betz when she took her to the guest room. The moonlight made lacy patterns on the wall and a spring breeze whispered through the branches of the big white-trunked gum tree that she remembered so well. Julie loved everything about this old home with its nineteenth century architecture and elegant period furniture that her grandparents had _ brought from England sixty years ago, when they decided to make Australia their home. She could not sleep. The house was full of memories. She and Ron had grown up here; they had gone to school together and played together; and last year in the garden where the big gum tree grew, they realized they loved each other and wanted to marry. The family had always gathered here throughout the years, on every occasion, weddings, birthdays, and always on Christmas. Grannie had been the most gracious hostess in Sydney, and everyone, rich or poor, loved her. Oh, Grannie, Julie whispered in tender yearning, we need you so. We all need you. Julie had never gone to bed in her growing-up years, without first going to Grannie's room for her goodnight kiss and kindly word of cheer. All the family did this, and no matter what time of night it was, Grannie seemed to TELL ME OF LOVE be waiting for them. Grandfather had kept her room just as she had left it five years ago. Julie wanted to go there now. Looking at Grannie's old four-poster bed and her dressing table and that quaint old chest of drawers would be a comfort. Dear, familiar things might ease her heartache. She stepped into her slippers, pulling her robe over her shoulders. Her feet made no sound as she tiptoed down the hallway. Halfway down, she opened the door to Ron's room; his tennis racket was still in the corner beside his desk, his cricket pennant was on the wall above it. There was the picture of the team that had won honors for Australia. Ron was tall, and his dark hair made him look even taller than the other boys. Wally was in the picture, too, grinning wickedly. Wally was such a cut-up, no one was ever quite sure what Wally would do next. 667 SEPTEMBER 1966 There was a blank space above Ron's desk where her own picture had been. That had gone with him to Perth. Her throat pinched in and she knelt down beside his bed asking Heavenly Father, in her own humble way, to guide her to Ron again. There was nothing she wouldn't do for Ron, no sacrifice she wouldn't make, she promised faithfully. She wept silently and alone for her love. She arose, feeling relieved, and went on down the hallway to Grannie's front bedroom. She had stepped inside before she realized she was not alone. Someone was in the chair by her bed. She could see the figure in the moonlight coming through the window. It was Aunt Isabelle. 'Come in, dear," she said. "I guess—I've been halfway expecting you—sooner or later." Julie sat down on the stool and held Aunt Isabelle's hand in both her own. "Aunt Isabelle," her voice caught. "It's—so good to be home. Even with all the heartbreak about Ron, I still have a joy about being here I can't quite explain. Peace and memories all blend together. I guess—it's just being home." "T understand,'' Aunt Isabelle murmured. "I'm so glad you're home, Julie. I didn't want you to go to the United States, but, of course, I could not interfere with Father's plans." "Yes, I know," Julie agreed. "Grandfather always has a reason for what he does. He wanted me to see something of the outside world." Her voice trailed off. Silence hung between them. She wanted to say that this time no one understood why he was sending Aunt Isabelle to the ranch with them in the morning. But she did not speak. "Julie " Aunt Isabelle drew a long quivering breath. "I've wanted to tell—I should have told you before. But the time has come. Now you must know." Hardly daring to breathe, Julie listened while Aunt Isabelle told her why she had not married Dr. George McGregor a long time ago. (To be continued) FIRST DAY AT SCHOOL Mabel Jones Gabbott Now her hands that loved her doll Reach for learning, and she looks With eager pleasure at the shelf And carefully selects her books. His hands, that baited worms on hooks, That lightly curved around a ball, Now must grapple with a pen To trace the letters short or tall. Be patient, teacher, guide these hands To want the feel of book and pen, To understand the worth of words, Their power and their beauty... Then World-wide doors of wonder and joy Will open to this girl and boy. 668 Latter-day Saint Chapel on Punch Bowl Boulevard Honolulu, Oahu, Hawaii This chapel, one of the earliest meetinghouses in the islands, was built of lumber imported from the mainland. The designer and architect was missionary Matthew Noall, who also did much of the actual work of building the structure, which was dedicated April 29, 1888. The small building at the right originally occupied the site of the chapel, but it was moved to one side and became the mission home. Both buildings have been torn down. King Kalakaua and Queen Kapiolani attended the dedication of the building, and the Queen addressed the saints and visitors present. TY ee 4 i TTT rc luMt ly — ae Claire Noall w Hawaii, the fiftieth State of the United States, more than two thousand miles westward across the Pacific Ocean from the mainland, is the longest island chain in the world. More than twenty-four islands comprise the group, and eight of these are major islands called the Leeward group. The islands, all of them volcanic in origin, form a sort of crescent, with Kauai at the northwest and Hawaii, the largest island, at the southeast. 669 SEPTEMBER 1966 Honolulu, the capital city, 102 miles by plane from Kauai, borders a magnificent harbor area on the southwest coast of Oahu. Near Laie, on the northeast end of Oahu, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has erected the beautiful Hawaiian Temple and established the Polynesian Cultural Center and the Church College. In 1850, ten elders, who were temporarily working as missionaries in California, were called to '"'open'' a mission in Hawaii, then known as the Sandwich Islands. Hiram Clark was designated as the mission president, and with him were Henry W. Bigler, Thomas Morris, John Dixon, William Farrer, James Hawkins, James Keeler, Thomas Whittle, Hiram Blackwell, and George Q. Cannon. The missionaries arrived in Honolulu Harbor on December 12th, after a voyage of twenty days from San Francisco. The next day they built an altar of stones on "'Punch Bowl Hill," and dedicated the islands to the preaching of the restored gospel. The first baptism was performed on February 10, 1851, when Elder Clark baptized a boy about sixteen years of age. Other baptisms followed, performed principally by Elder Cannon on the island of Maui. The first branch of the Church in the islands was organized at Kealakou, Maui, August 6, 1851. The Book of Mormon was translated into the Hawaiian language, in 1854, by Elder Cannon, assisted by several educated Hawaiians. The Church has progressed and grown rapidly in the islands. Today, there are three stakes on Oahu: Honolulu, Oahu, and Pearl Harbor, as well as many active and growing branches in the Hawaii Mission. My husband Matthew had long wished to bring me to these islands where he had spent his childhood as the son of a Latter-day Saint mission president. Finally, in January 1966, we stood at the crater's edge at Haleakala, on the island of Maui. MAUI Up, up, through nearly ten thousand feet of altitude, we had driven from the shore with our guide. As we passed beneath the blue sky and against the white cloud forming in the crater, a page of history appeared before our eyes. We remembered the account of the missionary travels which Matthew's father had written in his memoirs. He and his companion had climbed up through the giant fern forests above Hana to the opposite side of the crater, each one taking a turn at riding the mule while the other walked, a distance of thirty miles. As they reached the highest point of the mm— opposite the place where I stood—they were suddenly engulfed by dense fog, below, above, and around them. A wrong step forward could plunge them nearly 2,000 feet into the extinct crater. A blind step to either side or backward might hurtle them down the mountain they had climbed. They dared not move; they prayed; and, finally, the fog lifted. Haleakala is wedded to another volcano (Hanakauhi) by a narrow isthmus of land. Lower and older, the second peak forms the western end of the island. As on the moist side of Haleakala, whose 670 KAUAI KEKA nunau J _ OAHU nine a Nonna) = MOLOKAI A a 5 " ve Fee a as ars; 7. 2, cancteawe $ "On: ONOKAA ©" O precipitous green face is deeply grooved and wooded, the eastern slopes of the western range are luxuriously green. A core of a former cone, Iao Needle, rises 2,250 feet above the valley floor. We left the isthmus to drive along the coast toward the drier side of Maui, only to find long hedges of bougainvillaea, like a glorious rainbow, defying drought. On the sands of the inn where we stayed, the breeze was never softer, the sun more radiant, or the sea a lovelier shade of deep green-blue. For, although the trade winds dry the islands, the cool currents from the Behring Sea modify the temperature and promote the growth of tropical vegetation. We took the trolley from the inn to Lahaina, a city which once was the residence of King Kamehameha I and the center of vast mid-Pacific whaling activities. Here, too, we found flowers at our feet and rainbows in the sky. HAWAII HAWAII From Maui we flew to the island of Hawaii (the Big Island)— land of contrast, home of five major volcanoes and many lesser ones. After visiting exotic orchid nurseries on Hilo Bay, we arrived at Kilauea's bleak crater—a mere half hour's distance away by car. Anciently, this volcano's 4,000 foot summit collapsed to form a twoand-one-half mile wide pit that now receives flow after flow of molten lava. At times, one of its craters surfaces glowing red, then again sinks from sight and becomes crusted until the fire once more breaks forth. In the 1950's, millions of cubic feet of lava were added to the pit. Kilauea's Puna Rift erupted in 1955 from a long fissure over canefields and forests. In 1959, red fountains sprang 1,900 feet into the air from Kilauea Iki, just east of Kilauea's crater, leaving a forest of ghostly tree trunks upright in a stone floor. Mauna Loa's crater stands at 13,680 feet above sea level. In 1950, it sent a stream of molten lava to the sea in less than three hours. On the Kona Coast, almost directly west of Hilo, on the opposite side of the Big Island, we found a second series of black sand beaches. When hot lava meets the sea it bursts like black popcorn and is, eventually, reduced to finely cindered sand. From jet-colored rock, the ancient City of Refuge found the stone for its walls. 67] SEPTEMBER 1966 KAUAI Kauai, the oldest of all the islands, is rightfully called the Garden Isle. At the inn near Niumalu, on the east coast, which was once the home of Queen Deborah, we found her drift of lagoons shot newly into bloom with pink, orchid, and white water lilies, or lotus flowers. The lagoons were once Queen Deborah's fishponds. When some missionaries from New England accompanied her young son from Boston to Kauai, in the 1820's, she welcomed the Yankees and fed them with delicious fish from the ponds. She learned English and joined the Christian Church. Nevertheless, some of the ancient customs still prevailed. Today, the inn situated on these lagoons, circumvents commercialism and preserves some of the royal rites. Among Kauai's volcanic summits rises the wettest spot on earth. Here nearly five hundred inches of rain fall during the year. The Wailua River drains this moisture; and, near the stream's mouth, where Deborah's inn is located, the sea flows pale green over coral _ reefs, breaking into a complex pattern of white foam. Everywhere on the Kauai coastline the surf knits intricate patterns. On the day I drove around to the beaches of the Wet and Dry Caves, the water was so intensely blue and the pools were reflecting so alluringly the overhanging green shrubbery at the mouths of the rivers, that I saw at once where the scenes of a motion picture, filmed in this area, had been shot. Soon I saw against the sky a needle rising from another mile-deep canyon. And in this area we found one of the most beautiful of Hawaii's inns. OAHU At last Matthew and I were ready for our visit to Oahu. Matthew was only two years old when his parents returned to the islands for their second mission. In Honolulu we rented a car to drive to Laie, and as we drove around Diamond Head on our journey, sea and sky seemed to vie with each other for the deepest blue. We stopped at an inn where the hibiscus blooms shone nearly twelve inches in diameter. The "flowers of the sea" also held our attention—blowholes funneling and spouting white water nearly one hundred feet in their churning leap. But up the coast near the northwest corner of the island, from what was once a dry stretch of beach land, Laie beckoned. The changes created by the Church are breathtaking. Instead of drought, we found the Polynesian Village with its canals and canoes, and its young men and women from the far-flung stakes and missions of the South Pacific. We found the College of Hawaii and the glory of the temple in its semi-wreath of fountains. Hardly less magnificent than the temple, the tabernacle in Honolulu represents the architectural progress of the Church in its promise for the spiritual way of life. Back in Honolulu, Matthew breathed a nostalgic sigh for the tiny church on Punch Bowl Boulevard, now gone, that his father had built. Almost within the shadow of the royal palace, the Latter-day Saints once owned a piece of land. Matthew and his wife Libbie Noall had paid a visit to 672 Transparencies by the author Crater cones inside a large crater, Haleakala National Park, Maui. City of Refuge. National Historical Park Near Honaunau, Hawaii. C4 wi) a ' if if iF; Ty "Little Grand Canyon" Latter-day Saint Tabernacle, Wailua River—Waimea Canyon, Kaui Honolulu, Oahu, Hawaii Latter-day Saint Temple at Laie, Oahu, Hawaii HAWAII King Kalakaua and his Queen _ Kapiolani in the Lalani Palace. At the time of the dedication of the chapel, the Queen addressed the people. Through the presence of royalty and representatives of the work of the early missionaries, the little church became a truly historic spot. Libbie sent several accounts of her missionary labors to the Woman's Exponent (published by Latter-day Saint women in Salt Lake City, Utah, U. S. A.). We quote a few lines from her 1887 report: The Lord has said He remembereth the isles of the sea.... On this island, Oahu, there are four large branches of the Relief Society, among whom I have been laboring since our last April conference, endeavoring, as much as my knowledge of the language would permit, to exhort them to obedience in observing the counsel | given by the servants of the Lord, and becoming live laborers in the building up of his Kingdom here upon the earth.... (Libbie Noall, Laie, Oahu, July 15, 1887, from the Woman's Exponent, August 15, 1887, page 48). And so it was that our visit to the State of Hawaii was concluded in a spirit of love for the friendly Hawaiian people, and of joy in simply being on the Islands of Flowers for a little while, this blessed, happy' place. On every hand, simply in passing, we had met native Hawaiians proud to be numbered as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Wiliwili Blossoms Bougainvillaea Cypripedium Orchid 675 Canal at Polynesian Village, Polynesian Cultural Center, Laie, Oahu, Hawaii Mosaic at the Church College of Hawaii representing President David O. McKay welcoming the youth of many lands Courtesy Church Information Bureau ea on f é = 2. Is J: ¥ v9., = = = a.~ Tapestry Design and Creative Craft by Carolyn Durham Peters Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts The lines of ancestry which have been woven together to make a Latter-day Saint family pattern are represented graphically in this significant pattern. The basic background material is dark green burlap thirty-eight inches long and twenty-four inches wide. One inch is used for a hem at the bottom of the tapestry, and two inches for turning under at the top for inserting a dowel rod so that the tapestry can be hung upon the wall of the home library or the family room. Threads are removed on the sides of the burlap to make a threefourths inch fringe, and the threads so removed are braided together to make the hanging cord which is attached to the dowel rod. The symbolic motifs - (flowers, Viking ship, and coat of arms) are cut from felt and attached to the burlap by a zigzag machine stitch. In this particular family design, the Viking ship (upper right) represents the Norwegian (Widtsoe) and the Danish (Madsen) lines of ancestry; the coats of arms are symbolic of the Wallace and Durham (British) families. The colorful bouquet exemplifies the States where members of the family were born: the sego lily for Utah; the golden poppy for California; and the dogwood for Missouri. The mottos in the insignia (lower left) weave historic heraldry into modern aims and ideals: Eureka ("I have found it" for California); Industry (for Utah); and salus populi suprema lex ("Let the Welfare of the People Be the Supreme Law'') for Missouri. The equal sign combines the mottos and points them to the family name of MADSEN. Variations of this significant and beautiful design could be made to represent any family, and the pride of heritage and interest in tracing lines of ancestry can be greatly enhanced when the family members can see, graphically placed before them, a representation of the treasured weaving of many honored threads that make a family tapestry. 677 Myrene T. Alvord, East Phoenix Stake Homemaking Leader, pictured with her original designs of organdy poppies and an arrangement of crystal leaves and sprigs of smaller flowers. Sister Alvord's dress is a hand-screened cotton print which she designed and sewed. Note the quilted design on the bodice. Seen also is Sister Alvord's small Crystal Arrangement of dainty rosebuds (cloth) resin dipped, placed artfully in a goblet with small crystal leaves and tiny sprigs of plastic flowers. Organdy Poppies Cutting the petals. The poppies are cut from cotton organdy in separate petals, in any size desired. The pattern shown in the diagram (in reduced size) requires four or five petals cut 5 inches across at the widest part of the petal and 5 inches deep from the base of the petal to its top point. For the outside of the flower, 7 or 8 larger petals are needed. These are cut about ™% inch Jarger than the center petals all the way around. For an attractive arrangement, use only a few of the larger poppies (in the size described above), and make a number of flowers in smaller sizes and with fewer petals. Several buds in a floral arrangement also add to its attractiveness.(Continued on p.691) 678 East Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Creative Handicraft by Myrene T. Alvord BLOSSOMS FOR LASTING BEAUTY Lois S. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society Formal Arrangment of Flowers Double cups of simple egg carton flowers are dipped in pale blue cold water paint and edged with gold. The frosty beaded stamens and delicate leaves and flowers are wired together in a tall and elegant arrangement. Floral tape covers the stems and the places where the flowers, leaves, and stems are attached. The ornate antiqued vase accenting this arrangement is made from a glass bottle. Cover with cold water paint in a color darker than that desired for the finished vase. Don't be afraid to leave brush strokes. Apply as many coats of paint as may be needed thoroughly to cover the bottle, allowing each coat of paint to dry thoroughly, about one day for each coat of paint. From a bottle of gold paint, pour off nearly all the oil, and stir the remainder thoroyghly. Dip a small brush in the gold paint and edge off the surplus paint by pressing the brush against the top of the bottle, and stroke out the wet brush on a soft cloth. When very little gold paint remains in the brush, begin brushing on the edges, ridges, crevices, and round the top of the bottle, working the brush in a horizontal direction, always brushing the bottom edges first. When the complete bottle has been brushed horizontally, repeat the process with perpendicular strokes. Seal with clear, "flat"? Enamel. To decorate the antiqued vase, use liquid steel or clearseal, both come in tube—no funnel needed. Add beads, pearls, jewels, or small gold chains in scrolls, loops, circles, medallions, or floral designs. Candle Holder Remove rim from open end of can, cut 2 strips of paper about 1/2" wide, exactly the length around the can. (Do not overlap.) Divide each strip into 6 or 8 equal parts and mark evenly with a pencil. Scotch tape each strip at bottom and top of can, matching penciled divisions perfectly in line with each other. These are - guidelines for cutting the can | evenly. Following the guidelines through the paper, top and bottom, cut can to bottom. Continue around can. Next, cut top | half off of every other section and, using longnosed pliers, bend down each of the half sections to | form legs for the candle holder. Cut each section into an un-; even number of '"'slits'' about an inch long (7 to a section makes f a nice design). With long-nosed pliers curl "'slits' for design in graduated curls. Curl all sections in like design. Spray with gold, let dry, and decorate with gold doilies, braid, lace, bows, rhinestones, or jewels. To prevent your candle holder from tarnishing, paint lightly with coat of treated plastic resin when you are dipping flowers or make special preparations. 679 SEPTEMBER 1966 - Informal Arrangement..- -- Multi-colored Flowers High and low center egg cartons can become a whole garden bouquet, using manicure scissors, paintpots, and imagination. Low center egg cartons make poppies, and tulips; high centers make daisies, daffodils, lilies, and cold water vinyl paint, and plastic leaves for greenery, and stamens. Use white-wire from 'clothes hangers for stems and green florist tape for covering stems. For low center carton flowers, you will use the cup that holds the egg. With cup separated from carton, using manicure scissors, cut a small V in between the 4 corners of the cup. Round or shape petals as desired. For high center carton flowers, you will use the high center rather than the egg cup. Trim edges off, leaving as much carton as possible. Cut down each high center at the corner of center. Round off each petal to desired shape. For daisies, cut slits all the way around the cup about 14," apart and down to the base. Round off ends. Put 3 of these together—graduating each down to center. For daffodils or lilies, do not cut down the corners, but scallop the edge of the cup. For buds on stock or stems of flowers, wrap 4 piece of cotton in a sheath of toweling, wire at the bottom and tape to the stem. Stocks are made from tiny cup at top of high center of the egg carton. After you have cut out the flowers, paint them with poster, vinyl, or any cold water paint. For variety, outline the edges of some petals with contrasting color or white. These may also be dipped in plastic resin (with catalyst) to make a bright, weatherproof patio table decoration. To assemble, put 2 or 3 cups together (according to flower), alternating petals. Punch hole straight through all bottoms, insert stamen. Place stamen wire along cut white-wire, and wrap with green florist tape. Add plastic leaves along the stem as you wrap the wire. STATURE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn A minor scratch, a hurt, and the small disgrace Of sudden tears is quickly gone if a five-year-old is bandage glorified When he emerges later on. Taylorsville Ninth Ward, Taylorsville West Stake (Utah) Photographs by Lucas Visser In picture No. 1, two colorful serapes (blankets or shawls) are hung against the wall in the background. The women (Lois Webb. And Eldora Duncan) are wearing straw (basket) hats. Various colorful toys may be seen in the foreground. The handsome rooster at the right is made of corn, beans, and split peas mounted with glue on a plywood foundation. A mercado (market) is gaily represented in picture No. 2. Note the sign at the left '""Confites" (sugar-plums... Dainties). The women are, left to right: Linda Hammond, Joan Jensen, and Molly George. Picture No. 3 shows a display of hand-embroidered pillowcases, with crocheted edgings or hand scallops in solid and buttonhole stitches. The women are Nina Harding and Charlene Ewell. June Barker is president of Taylorsville West Stake Relief Society; Lorna Miles is president of Taylorsville Ninth Ward Relief Society; Barbara Mackelprang was in charge of the handmade articles, and Floy Munk was in charge of games and amusements; the exotic Mexican dinner was planned and directed by Sister Miles, with Maureen Brown as decoration chairman. 682 Along the dock are stacks of fish. Baked kingfish with broccoli. The famous "Key Lime Pie" ENTREE: _ Baked Kingfish Steak one 1-inch steak per person lime juice corn meal Parmesan cheese, grated butter or margarine Sprinkle each steak with lime juice. Rub well with melted butter. Place in a shallow baking dish and cover with corn meal and grated cheese mixed together. Dot with butter and bake at 350°F for 25 minutes. (If kingfish is unavailable, halibut, salmon, or other fish steaks do very well.) Sea Food Sauce 2 c. Chili sauce 1 c. Catsup 14 tbsp. Worcester sauce 2 tbsp. Horseradish 2 tbsp. Prepared mustard 1 small can tomato paste (6 oz.) 14 c. Lime juice 14 c. Minced celery 14, c. Minced green pepper 1 ec. Minced clams Combine all ingredients and heat before serving. And now to top off a meal—the Key Lime Pie. 4 eggs 1 can condensed milk (1414 ounces) 14 c. Key lime juice 2 tsp. Grated lime rind baked pie shell Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of one until thick. Add the condensed milk and beat again. Add lime juice and rind and beat until thick. Beat the remaining egg whites and fold into the above mixture. Pour into baked pie shell and bake in slow oven 15 minutes or until set. Meringue Topping 2 egg whites 4 tbsp. Sugar sprinkle of salt 1 tsp. Lime juice Beat egg whites with rotary beater till stiff, gradually adding sugar and salt until meringue holds a peak. Stir lime juice in very lightly. Spread on pie filling and place in hot oven until lightly browned. Another Key lime pie recipe is made with a meringue pie shell and topped with whipped cream. 685 Courtesy of the Art Institute of Chicago "The Bath" (La Toilette) by Mary Cassatt This painting is to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3—"Humility Yields Strength,' for the fourth meeting in January 1967 (Northern Hemisphere); and May 1967 (Southern Hemisphere). See discussion of painting on pp. 689-690. 686 Sanford Associates THE GARDEN GLOWS IN COLOR Ageratum, dahlias, daisies, and tall chrysanthemums — massed for color and designed in harmony. ''Wherever a garden is, there shall be a gladness and a singing roundabout.' Courtesy Cedar Rapids Art Center, Cedar Rapids, Iowa "Woman With Plants" by Grant Wood This painting is to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7—'Wisdom Teaches Right," for the fourth meeting in May 1967 (Northern Hemisphere); and September 1967 (Southern Hemisphere). See discussion of painting on page 689. 688 "Woman With Plants' by Grant Wood (1892-1942), American (Cedar Rapids Art Association, Cedar Rapids, lowa) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7— ''Wisdom Teaches Right"' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University One cannot look at the "Woman with Plants" without feeling that here is a woman who exemplifies the statement, 'the salt of the earth,' and showing greatness, strength, wisdom. She seems visually to portray Dr. Bruce Clark's definition of wisdom at its highest: "It is knowledge, experience, and insight combined, anchored in faith, and enlightened by inspiration." We are advised diligently to seek wisdom from all sources—''knock and _ it shall be opened unto you, seek and ye shall find." We are not told that it will be easy to find, but we are told that it will be of great worth. It is interesting to note that the life of Grant Wood seems to follow this injunction. He worked hard as a youth, supporting himself from the age of ten. He taught himself to draw. When he decided to become an artist, he was plagued with a feeling of inferiority culturally because of his background, and felt that he was not proceeding properly because of his lack of training. But he worked. He studied in Europe a number of times, trying to acquire the culture and methods of the Impressionists, each time falling short of his goal, but continually trying to find himself. Then, suddenly, as if by a flash of revelation, he became a painter of the American scene and its people who has no equal. He used his own rural background, he discovered the beauty and truth which had always been around him, and of which he was a part. He struggled, he worked, he looked, he sought, and, finally, it was given to him. This painting is a portrait of his mother, a pioneer woman. We see in it his affection for her, her stately humility, experience, forbearance, and one who has lived much, learned much, given much, received much, and is wise. No doubt Grant Wood was not aware at the time he painted this portrait that it would achieve fame. Yet one cannot help but sense that he received much personal gratification from the fact that he now knew he could be true to himself, could exercise the gift that he had received, and in his own peculiar manner present that which was his alone to give., "The Bath" (La Toilette) by Mary Cassatt (1845-1926), American (Art Institute of Chicago) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3— "Humility Yields Strength.'' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinhoilt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University The subject matter of art never changes. It is the way the artist "sees" it that changes. Thus the one who looks at a painting sees in it what he knows. Instead of saying, 'I know what I like,' he might better say, "I like what I know." Content matter chosen by an artist is usually something that is of value to him, something that has touched him deeply or has become a part of him. Mary Cassatt, perhaps America's most famous woman painter, was especially fond of painting mothers, babies, and children, and the tenderness shown in their relationships to each other. This painting, "The Bath," glorifies the humble task of the mother in bathing her child. That which is felt (the willing service and anxious love, the choice to do this humble service) seems to be the subject of the painting. One is reminded of the incident in the scriptures 689 (Continued from page 678) Forming the flower. Lay a knitting needle across the outer edge of a petal and roll tightly all the way to the tapered point. Push with thumbs the rolled petal toward the center of the needle as an accordion. Remove petal from the needle, and continue the process until all of the desired petals are rolled. Then begin with the smaller petals and wrap them around stamens (which can be secured from craft shops or department stores) about three stamens to each flower. Be careful not to wrap the petals too tightly. With a small piece of florist's wire bind the petals and the stamens together into a blossom. Preparing a Drip Box. Prepare ahead of time. The drip box is made from the bottom part of a cardboard box large enough to accommodate the number of flowers you wish to dip. Cut slits 1 inch deep and 5 to 6 inches apart at each end of the box. String sturdy wire across the box and hook it in the slits at each end. Line the bottom of the box with several layers of newspaper. Dipping the Flowers. The dipping solution (1 pint of plastic and 40 drops of catalyst) is mixed in a No. 2144 can and stirred well. Dip each poppy completely into the solution and squeeze and shake, (important step) hang it by the stem in the drip box. This process is best accomplished outdoors. After all of the flowers have been dipped, pick up the first dipped poppy (still wet), and gently pull the petals apart and shape them into pleasing form. After each flower is shaped, place it (stem down) in a small frozen juice can (nothing larger). Push the flower about one inch down into the can so that the petals will not droop over the sides. Dry in hot sunlight three hours (no longer). If not completely dry, move the flowers into shade and leave them as long as necessary. The next day (do not wait any longer or the flowers will tear) remove the flowers carefully from the cans. Paint over all the petals with a coat of plastic resin (prepared with catalyst according to directions as before). Place each flower, as painted, back in its can and allow to dry. If the blossoms need some re-shaping later, place them out in the hot sunshine, so they will - become pliable. Attaching stems. Use straight lengths of white wire from a clothes hanger for stems. Place the end of the wire along the base of the flower and then wrap with white florist's tape. Wrap all flowers and buds the same way, but occasionally wrap a bud or two in with the sheathing of the flower stem. After the wrapping with tape, wrap again with white florist's ribbon. Plastic leaves can be used in arrangements with the poppies, or various types of plastic greenery can be used. Making crystal leaves. Prepare a mold by cutting from an aluminum pie tin a pattern similar to the one below. Cut the leaf 4 inch larger than the desired finished size, and fold up the edges to form the sides of the mold. Fill the molds full of "cooking crystals" (granules of plastic), level off the top, and place molds on a cookie sheet covered with heavy aluminum foil. Place in a preheated oven (400°F) and cook for exactly 12 minutes. (Longer cooking may melt the plastic too much and turn it yellow). Working quickly, remove cookie sheet from oven and take molds one at a time on to hot pads. Bend and shape the leaves (still in molds!) artistically to take away the stiff look. If leaves harden in molds before shaping—return to oven to soften. Heat an ice pick red hot and make a hole at the base of the leaf for inserting, the stem (made of heavy florist wire). Wrap the stem with tape as directed for the flowers, about three inches down the stem. Pattern for Organdy Crystal Leaf Poppy Petal 691 — Ee. é¢. _; + wed r¢ nie Ellis Farnsworth Nielsen, El Paso, Texas, daughter of pioneers who were creators of beauty in the wilderness, has made hundreds of handicraft articles which represent her love of beauty, and the exactness of her artistic techniques. A recent specialty has been the making of pillows, baby quilts, and beautiful! Dolls to delight the children and decorate the nursery and the bedrooms. As a quilter and designer of quilts, Sister Nielsen has contributed hundreds of hours of time and many quilts to Relief Society. She has taught the fine art of quilting in several wards and has served as quilting chairman. Sister Nielsen has developed her outstanding leadership and executive talents by serving as counselor and as president in ward Relief Societies, and her long years of devotion as a visiting teacher have been a comfort and an inspiration to women in many wards. She has also been a teacher in MIA and in Primary. Always sensitive and obedient to the needs of her numerous friends and relatives, she has rejoiced in her abundant opportunities to be useful, as she says, ''among the daughters of Zion,'' and in further fields of service. - 692 @ As though sensing my need of something to divert me from my afflictions and tiredness, little birds of various kinds and colors gather daily to frisk about and feed just outside my north window. Here they eye me speculatively. Countless seeds have been scattered here from weeds that have been allowed to creep closer and closer, encroaching upon my dwelling through the long period of my illness. Yesterday I had the good fortune to witness a one-bird drama, when a large dove, alone by itself, waddled in on the scene. What a fat bird! Was my instant reaction. What a meat pie for the hunter! Never had I seen a dove before that appeared so strangely and uncommonly buxom. Its feathers were a trifle ruffled, as if through a slight contact with a cat or other foe. Its tail feathers seemed slightly separated from the pinions of its body. A fluffy row of off-white feathers was revealed, protruding daringly from under its left wing. Bird Dramas Rose A. Openshaw I unconsciously referred to him at once as the starveling, for never had I seen a bird so ravenous. He ate and ate until I was almost convinced he was made without a craw and was trying to fill his whole body. Other birds loitering around were ignored by him entirely. Although he glanced up at rare intervals, lifting his head high, apparently it was for a breather only, or to stretch himself that he might hold the more. Occasionally, too, he shook his bill, then commenced all over again. His head bobbed up and down constantly as seeds were salvaged in a swift flying movement from the earth. A few times his bill was wiped first on one side and then on the other in the brown dirt, but in a quick, slapdash fashion, as if time was fleeting and he had none to spare for niceties. I decided he must have contracted to feed a whole colony of infant birds and was storing a surplus for that purpose. Other birds ate sparingly and visited in between, making meal- 693 SEPTEMBER 1966 time a pleasant social experience. Not he! All he desired, seemingly, was to fill a great void within. He acted as if he never expected to see food in such quantities again, and must get his ""manna"' while it was going. Tasks drew my attention, and before I returned, he had disappeared. But I seriously doubted, after such an intake, he would be able to take to the air. He must have footed it. What could have happened to develop such a capacity? I decided to await his return with interest, for I would be able to recognize him at once by his appetite, if nothing else. Strange how a bird and other forms of life, both human and otherwise, at first appear to look like all the others of their kind, puzzling one to know, until further acquaintance reveals the many distinguishing features. Feathers, we find, are quite as varied and distinguishable as are faces. One male I noted had a beautiful, dark-blue sheen to his costume. Some have one shade and some another, and marks are different on each. I was astounded one day to perceive a bright pink feather at the throat of one dove and wondered why he was so marked or honored. Had he performed some valorous deed before entering this realm and so was worthy of such distinction? The feather reposed on the lower right side of his throat and seemed to give delight to his mate, who did not permit him two feet from her side. Doves, usually, I noted, drifted in by two's, and a few mornings ago a couple arrived early before 694 the crowd. The male was recognized by his more brilliant attire. He immediately spread himself, breast down on the warm earth. He would enjoy a little siesta while his mate dined. By and by, distressed by the violent rays of the sun, he lifted his right wing and tail feathers umbrella-wise, shielding himself. Thus, he remained, lowering his improvised parasol but once, and that to rest tired muscles. When his mate had completed her meal, they hopped slowly away. Anp, oh, I must not miss this little romance going on at this moment right before me! There is the forlorn male dove, his head sunk deep into his collar, trying to hide his shame. Both wings are dragging, and his whole attitude bespeaks the spurned and humiliated lover, for had not his advances been repelled by his lady-love, who flew angrily at his head, viciously pecking at him each time he drew near? Shaming him, too, in the presence of his friends? A similar scene had been enacted the day before. Could it have been the same couple? Or, are birds that persistent? The male tried overtaking his love, but each successive time she escaped by a small margin. He continued, only to meet with a series of rebuffs, for each time he landed, he found she had leaped forward, escaping only by a hair's breadth, until, finally, finding herself cornered by trees and tall grass, she lifted her wings, seeking shelter in the thick, heavyleafed branches of a willow. He stood dejectedly, then, and for a moment gazed sadly after this winged siren, then, shaking himself, said as plain as a dove could, 'I'm through!" He then had turned sheepishly to face his companions, but finding them preoccupied and none tittering at his plight, his confidence had mounted, and he walked back serenely. Perhaps he could bring this choice one to reason by his attention to others. It was worth a try! Among other varieties of feathered creatures lured by the seeds outside my window, was a single red cardinal, looking like a flaming bit of cloth caught in the tall, brown grass. There it had lighted along the bank of the nearby canal. And there in the fig tree, among its broad leaves, where other birds twittered and flittered pleasant hours away, a strange but beautiful flyer in bright green, much as a green knight of old, had lighted. Here he paused long enough thoroughly to enjoy the breathtaking admiration and excited eomment his presence evoked. Then, resuming his route, he delighted other charmed audiences. And here two owls, feeling it an ideal environment for their young, have taken up residence, hiding by day and spending their nights parked in the hedge at the south. Their heavy breathing at nights constrains one to believe that a human is snoring. Baby owls covered at birth by BIRD DRAMAS briliant feathers, both long and heavy, appear almost as large as the parents and can be told apart only by weight and dexterity. A neighbor caught one, bringing it for me to examine. It was so young it could not fly enough to escape, yet its long array of fathers gave an appearance of being full grown, and I could not believe it was otherwise until, taking it in my hands, I found its body greatly lacking in substance. At one time a road runner, that symbol of loneliness—wanderer of desert lands, ever in search of the elusive—wandered | in, his eager, quizzical gaze posing questions we could not answer. Disappointed, his swift feet bore him quickly beyond our ken. And once, all the birds turned in open-eyed wonder, when a tiny pig—an escaped mascot, dropped in on us in a surprise venture. But, out of his element, and, probably, lured by thoughts of a waiting banquet, he made the dirt scramble under his_ short legs, startling the birds whose wings were poised instantly for flight. He called ''goodbye'"' in his native tongue, "ouink, ouink!" as he fled. SEPTEMBER SNOW Beulah Huish Sadleir First snow fell on a summered lake, Restless water, water opaque: Snow fell lightly, lent heart-content, Acceptance of winter, and summer spent. 695 FROM THE FIELD Roy Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''The Charms of Music'"' April 29, 1966 Glenda G. Thompson, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: 'In celebration of our fifth birthday, we wished to do something special and really nice. We thought we would like to include all our families and friends to enjoy this special event with us. We presented a musical program "The Charms of Music.' This program was very well received, and was well attended. Ninetytwo sisters in the Singing Mothers chorus were wonderful, and the guest artists were outstanding. We were happy to have with us Sister Cleone Rich Eccles of the General Board of Relief Society. The excellent program was arranged by June Heiser, chorister, with Feola Barton as organist." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention April 28, 1966 Front row, left to right, visiting teachers honored for the most years of service, left to right: Kathleen Reese; Alice R. Rich; Ruby Forsgren; Lavina Thomas; Aurilla Hansen. Members of the Box Elder Stake Relief Society Board are seen standing in the second row; in the back row are the characters from the Brigham City Eleventh Ward who presented the play "Beyond Each Door." Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The play 'Beyond Each Door, by Alberta H. Christensen, was presented under the direction of the Eleventh Ward Relief Society President Vonda Cheney. The play was enjoyed by a large number of visiting teachers. We were all thrilled with the Singing Mothers from the Sixth Ward who sang 'God Is Ever Beside Me,' and 'A Visiting Teacher's Prayer.' They were under the direction of Marie M. Hyde, accompanied by Juanita Steffen. The visiting teachers honored for many years of service were each presented with a corsage. The stake board served refreshments to all attending." Beaver Stake (Utah), Minersville Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers at Birthday Party March 17, 1966 Left to right: Cassie McKnight; Lucy Williams; Effie Marshall; Albateen Roberts; Ileen Jameson; Inez Carter; Edith Bradfield; Fern Craw; Bessie Pearson; Armina Banks; Jennie Marquardson; Madge Carter. Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teachers in the picture, over seventy, were given a special tribute and a gift at the Relief Society anniversary observance in Minersville Ward. Because of eight consecutive years. Of 100 per cent visiting teaching, all of the other visiting teachers of the ward were also honored. A delicious turkey supper was served to all Relief Society members and their husbands, after which a program was presented entitled 'Lest We Forget.' The beautiful birthday cake may be seen on the table in the picture." 696 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. SEPTEMBER 1966 Duchesne Stake (Utah) Leadership Meeting and Spring Fashion Show May 28, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Viola Bleazard, Secretary-Treasurer; Lois B. Goodrich, Counselor; Ora N. Holgate, President; Arwella P. Moon, Counselor; Rita Hansen, chorister; Anona Miles, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: NaDeane Horrocks and Iva Allred, decoration committee; Rayda Stevenson, visiting teacher message leader; Ida Horrocks, literature class leader; Inez Swasey, social science class leader; Jennette Turnbow, theology class leader; Ina Kitteridge, who played the background music during the fashion show. Sister Holgate reports: "The closing social and fashion show was very well attended with one hundred fifty Relief Society members. Forty-two children modeled dresses and suits the mothers had made, with the help of Relief Society. For some, it was the first time sewing for their children. The dresses modeled were made at very little cost. Some were remodeled from men's suits, formals, etc. Modeled by women and teenagers were afternoon dresses, formals, dressy suits, casual dresses, and a wedding gown—all beautifully made. This accomplishment and the fashion show helped the mothers to realize what wonderful accomplishments can be done by being able to sew and make lovely clothing for oneself and one's family. "The stake Singing Mothers sang two numbers, and several wards rendered songs and musical numbers." Smithfield Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Presents Special Displays at Leadership Meeting April 28, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Erma B. Thompson, chorister; Lulu R. Mortensen, literature class leader; Selena G. Low, President; Winona W. Cunningham, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Ruby J. Thornley, Magazine representative; Donna L. Cooley, visiting teacher message leader; Bessie T. Griffin, organist; Marva S. Jenson, theology class leader; Roberta N. Geary, Second Counselor; Dixie P. Hillyard, work meeting leader; Tellma G. Thompson, First Counselor; Wanda G. Nielsen, social science class leader. Sister Low reports: "The ward workers enjoyed an array of artistry depicting the program of Relief Society at leadership meeting. Each stake leader arranged a beautiful table to instill in the sisters the correlation of each department to the success of the whole program of Relief Society. A light luncheon was served at the close of the evening to a large group of dedicated workers. The picture shows the social science display." Las Vegas East Stake (Nevada) Presents Dramatization "'Home Is My Harbor," May 20, 1966 Loretta N. Gubler, President, reports: '""The Las Vegas East Relief Society Stake Board presented a fund-raising program on May 20. We felt it was especially significant that we presented 'Home Is My Harbor' with members of the stake board and their families. The beautiful and spiritual message of the play was felt by all attending, as evidenced by the emotion shown by the audience at the close of the program. The Singing Mothers represented the five wards in our stake and performed beautifully. We held practices both night and day each Monday, so we could have the working mothers sing and participate with us. We were delighted with the attendance and feel that the evening was a big success, both financially and spiritually. The Singing Mothers were directed by stake chorister Renee Pearce, with Ethelyn Peterson at the organ, and Larraine Ficklin at the piano. Emma Solomon directed the play. Counselors to President Gubler are Mabel Hansen and Emma Solomon, with Hermise Thiess, Secretary-Treasurer." 698 SEPTEMBER 1966 North Carbon Stake (Utah) Presents Fashion Show April 1, 1966 Left to right: Carry] Carlson, wearing a dress made by her mother; Annalee Holdaway, in white and coral taffeta brocade formal; Marlene Richardson, wearing an afternoon dress; June Johnson and daughter Donna, in look-alike dresses of red and white gingham. Myrna C. Broschinsky, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The stake board took charge of most of the details, but the wards delivered an invitation to each home by the visiting teachers. The contribution was fifty cents a ticket and we shared the proceeds with the wards. "We felt that the fashion show was a real success. More than one hundred models participated, modeling clothes made by themselves or their mothers. Nothing worn in the fashion show was 'store-bought,' other than shoes and accessories. We had many nonmembers in attendance, so that we felt the fashion show was a good missionary tool. The dresses were displayed in scenes and not individually. "Two sewing classes have been held in wards in North Carbon Stake as a result of the fashion show, and others are being planned. The variety and number of items modeled was outstanding, and all the sewing was beautifully done. We feel that the Lord really blessed us for our efforts." South Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Spring Program, March 30, 1966 Seated, front row, beginning fourth from the left: Gloria Rippon, accompanist; Lois Shepherd, Secretary-Treasurer; Beverly Francis, Education Counselor; Elma B. Ross, President; Lila Evertsen, Work Counselor; Sharon Steed, chorister. Sister Ross reports: "Our stake spring program consisted of a dramatization by a father, mother, and two children, who discussed composers and their works from the Old World and the New, and the Singing Mothers performed the works discussed." Riverside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Riverside Ward Relief Society Presidents Honor Magazine Representative March 23, 1966 Seated, front row, left to right: Luella M. Buchi; Hillevi Daniels, Magazine representative; Ada Catmull. Back row, standing, left to right: Dott Linford; Elizabeth Gordon; Elda Nelson, President; Edith W. Tanner; Julia Wunderly. Zella Nesbitt, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "Hillevi Daniels has served faithfully as Magazine representative under the seven ward Relief Society presidents shown in the picture, a total of twenty-seven years. She has averaged above 100 per cent in subscriptions each and every year. She has been loved and revered by all who know her. She was recently released at the age of seventy-nine years because of failing health." 700 SEPTEMBER 1966 } s 2 —— Phoenix North Stake (Arizona) Magazine Representatives Honored at Leadership Meeting, April 11, 1966 Seated, left to right: Norma L. Wadsworth, Secretary-Treasurer, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society; Julia S. Kremer, retiring Glendale Ward Magazine representative; Ida M. Steele, President, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society. Second row, standing, left to right, Magazine representatives: Emil T. Reep, Twentieth Ward; Hazel C. Davis, Eighth Ward; Adeline Z. Albert, Glendale Ward; Karene Pierson, Twenty-fourth Ward. Back row, standing, left to right: Virginia C. Pullins, Counselor, Phoenix North Stake; Esther S. Knell, Counselor; Pearl T. Jacobsen, Magazine representative, Phoenix North Stake. Sister Steele reports: "The month of April was set aside as our Magazine drive month, under the direction of Sister Jacobsen. This month Julia S. Kremer was also honored at the stake leadership meeting. Sister Kremer has served as-eGlendale Ward Magazine representative for thirty-two years. When the ward was created thirty-two years ago, it covered an area which now comprises three stakes. Sister Kremer has magnified her calling, not only as Magazine representative, but also in her devotion to the gospel. In thirty-two years, she has missed only four leadership meetings. She is retiring after serving seventeen ward presidents and eight stake Relief Society presidents. She feels that her subscriptions have traveled around the world. The Luke Air Force Base is in this ward, and many Magazines have been sold to servicemen's wives. Each year she has achieved 100 per cent or more subscriptions. She is an inspiration to all other Magazine representatives for her devotion and service." 702 SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 75 — Light and Truth (Text: Doctrine and Covenants 93:24-26, 30-53) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman molds -her. Life INTRODUCTION We have learned in the last two lessons that Section 93 of the Doctrine and Covenants gives considerable understanding about the Savior and also man. TRUTH—ABSOLUTE From this wonderful revelation, Section 93, we learn the following definition of truth: And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come; And whatsoever is more or less than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning (D&C 93:24-25). In accordance with revealed truth. Truth is knowledge! Truth is constant—absolute! Truth never changes! Men may change as to their concepts of truth, but truth, never. It is that which was, is, and will continue to be. Expressed in another revelation— "truth abideth and hath no end" (Ibid., 88:66). Men of science consider the. Understanding of truth to be relative; that is, it changes. What is looked upon as "true" today may change tomorrow. This belief concerning man's_ research is necessary in order that man's investigations may continue. The scientist builds upon the findings 703 SEPTEMBER 1966 of others and thus advancement is made in discovering additional fragments of truth. But what about religious truths, as contained in the gospel of Jesus Christ restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors? Men may know about God and their relationship to him through revelation. Man's environment will not provide the answer; it must be revealed! The acceptance of this truth will bring this understanding. The Prophet stated: We take the sacred writings into our hands, and admit that they were given by direct inspiration for the good of man. We believe that God condescended to speak from the heavens and declare His will concerning the human family, to give them just and holy laws, to regulate their conduct, and guide them in a direct way, that in due time He might take them to Himself, and make them joint heirs with His Son. But when this fact is admitted, that the immediate will of heaven is contained in the Scriptures, are we not bound as rational creatures to live in accordance to all its precepts? Will the mere admission, that this is the will of heaven ever benefit us if we do not comply with all its teachings? Do we not offer violence to the Supreme Intelligence of heaven, when we admit the truth of its teachings, and do not obey them? Do we not descend below our own knowledge, and the better wisdom which heaven has endowed us with, by such a course of conduct? For these reasons, if we have direct revelations given us from heaven, surely those revelations were never given to be trifled with, without the trifler's incurring displeasure and. Vengeance upon his own head, if there is any justice in heaven... (DHC 11:11). CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss the consequences of admitting a truth and not living according to it. All truth has not been re- 704 vealed. Some truths are withheld because men lack faith. (Alma 12:9-11.) Our ninth Article of Faith declares that God "will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God."' We have, nevertheless, all that is necessary for the attainment of exaltation in. The celestial kingdom. Men continue to acquire further knowledge in the spirit world. During the millennium, the living will receive more knowledge. (D&C 101:32- 34.) TRUTH—DIFFERENTIATION Is all knowledge of equal value? Not all knowledge is of equal value. The knowledge that constitutes the wisdom of the heavens is all embraced in the Gospel as taught by Jesus Christ; and wilful ignorance of this, the highest type of knowledge, will relegate its victim to the inferior order of intelligences (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 edition, p. 267). We lived with God before we were born upon this earth. We are here for the purpose, ultimately, of advancing through faith toward godhood. The most important knowledge is_ that knowlelge which teaches salvation. If we learn all of the information about secular things in a given field of endeavor, important for this life, and yet we do not measure up to the purpose of our existence, we have lost our opportunity for the greatest blessings. TRUTH IS OF GOD "The Spirit of truth is of God" (D&C 93:26). How may one receive truth? President Stephen L Richards answers, as follows: '. We must, of necessity have God's aid in the acquisition of truth. His aid comes through faith and prayer. Faith contemplates the acceptance of the spiritual reality of a world outside the domain of science. It involves methods and _ processes different from those of scientific research. It postulates humility and dependence on divine power, the antipathies of egotism and self-efficiency. A contrite heart is the fertile field for planting the seeds of truth. In such a field they come to fruition in a knowledge, understanding, and conviction of the great concepts of life which defy the reason and philosophy of the arrogant, and self-sufficient, who will not stoop to the methods of the humble (Conference Report, April 1939, p. 41). THE POWER OF TRUTH There is a quality about religious truth that makes it different—the power to testify of itself. The Prophet Joseph Smith said:... In relation to the power over the minds of mankind which I hold, I would say, it is in consequence of the power of truth in the doctrines which I have been an instrument in the hands of God of presenting unto them, and not because of any compulsion on my part (DHC VI:2738). There is a spirit about truth that captures the attention and allegiance of those who are prepared for it. Elder Orson F. Whitney told the following experience with the bishop of another denomination who had written against the Book of Abraham in The Pearl of Great Price: I met the Bishop, with whom I was quite well acquainted, and he said to me: "Why have you not answered me?" "I have," was my reply; "I have been answering you all over the country, but it hasn't gotten into the papers." "Oh, indeed, and what have you ben saying?" he inquired. "I have been saying this: LESSON DEPARTMENT "Truth is truth, where'er 'tis found, On Christian or on heathen ground.' "And whether it be taken from an ancient hill in North America, as was the Book of Mormon; or from the catacombs of Egypt, as was the Book of Abraham, if it's true, it's true, no matter who translated it, or how many supposed flaws appear in the translation. The character of the content and the spirit that goes with it, determines better than all else its truth, its authenticity. We know Shakespeare's writings by the very sound of them—they have the Shakespearean ring. Literary experts can tell the difference between these writings and all others. We recognize Milton's poetry by the Miltonic ring; the poetry of Byron and Tennyson by the Byronic and Tennysonian ring. Then, if God speaks, why should it not have a Godlike ring, something that no man can counterfeit, nor any but a spiritual expert fully appreciate?" [He] agreed with me. Not as to the Book of Abraham, but as to the best way of testing any book. "I am one with you," he said, "in the belief that the highest evidence of the truth of any work is the spirit that it breathes and the wisdom that it inculcates," "Then," said I, "this Book of Abraham needs no defense from me, nor from anyone else. It speaks for itself; it defends itself. By the majesty of its language, by the sublimity of its teachings and the Spirit that permeates them, it proclaims itself divine" (Conference Report, April 1926, p. 34). LIGHT AND TRUTH The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth. Light and truth forsake that evil one (D&C 93: 36-37). The divine essence in man, intelligence, is light and _ truth. What is light? In discussing faith and knowledge, Alma mentions faith, that it was dormant until the word swelled the soul and then, he said,. It hath sprouted up, that your understanding doth begin to be en- 705 SEPTEMBER 1966 lightened, and your mind doth begin to expand. O then, is not this real? I say unto you, Yea, because it is light; and whatsoever is light, is good, because it is discernible, therefore ye must know that it is good (Alma 32: 34-35). Light, then, "is the wisdom and ability to forsake everything 'more or less' than truth" (RomNEY, Marion G.: BYU Bulletin, May 31, 1957). Because man is_ intelligence ("light and truth'), he is capable, by reason of his nature, to recognize truth and, by his free agency, reject error. Men may cloud their ability to discern light and truth because of sin. The greater the sin and the longer the continuance in sin, the less power one has to distinguish between truth and falsehood. It is probable, however, that few men lose all of this power. THE WAY OF TRUTH Jesus declared that he is the way of salvation, the Spirit of truth, and that he has a fulness of truth. (John 14:6; D&C 93: 26.) The Holy Ghost is also known as the Spirit of truth. (John 15:26; D&C 50:17.) Truth, light, and Spirit, are the Spirit of Christ which is given to all men, and he who hearkens to this Spirit is enlightened: (D&C 84: 45-46.) This Spirit is also called the "light of Christ." (Ibid., 88: 6-13; Moroni 7:14-19.) We have learned of the functions and place of this Spirit in our world. (Lesson 65 Relief Society Magazine, July 1965.) It is through Jesus Christ that truth is made known to man. Various means of revelation are used, such as dreams, visions, pure intelligence into the mind, 706 but always it is through the Savior. (D&C 76:12-13.) To be obedient to the teachings of Christ—having faith in him, repenting, being baptized, and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and keeping the commandments, bring the Holy Ghost as a constant companion. (Jbid., 121:46.) These powers and influences— the "light of Christ"? And the Holy Ghost—guide men _ into "light and truth." All of them come from Jesus Christ to bless men that they may succeed in the journey back to the Father's presence to receive a fulness of joy after the resurrection. (Jbid., 93:33-34.) STANDARD OF JUDGMENT Moroni said that the Spirit of Christ, which is given to all men, is the means by which God has provided that men may know truth from error. The way to judge is to realize that everything that persuades men to do good and to believe in Christ, is of God. If the idea persuades men to do evil and not to believe in Christ, it is of the devil. (Moroni 7:14-19.) Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve comments as follows on Moroni's words: In applying this test, that everything that persuadest to believe in Christ is of God and that everything which persuadeth not to believe in Christ is of the devil, we start with the assurance that whatever the Lord has revealed is truth, "diamond truth" to borrow a phrase from the Prophet, that it is consistent with all that is, all that was, and all that is to come. This is and must be so because God's wisdom is infinite, being founded upon complete knowledge. "All things," said the prophet Lehi speaking [of] things of the works of God, "have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things" (2 Nephi 2:24). Implicit in this text is the assumption that wisdom is dependent upon knowledge and that God's wisdom is infinite because He is omniscient. "He knoweth all things, and there is not anything save he knows it" (2 Nephi 9:20). He possesses with respect to all matters that knowledge which is truth, the object of our search, "knowledge of things as they are as they were, and as they are to come.".. - Does what you have learned persuade you "to do good" and "to believe in Christ?" If so, it is "of God," and being of God it is truth. It will never be repudiated (BYU Bulletin, May 30, 1957). To elucidate upon this standard of judgment, Elder Romney provides this example: That you may understand more clearly what I have in mind, let me give you an illustration or two. One of the fundamental doctrines of revealed truth is that in the garden of Eden, God endowed men with free agency. (Moses 7:32.) The preservation of this free agency is more important than the preservation of life itself... For without it, "there is no existence." (D&C 93:30.) It is, therefore, clear that everything which militates against man's enjoyment of this endowment persuades not to believe in Christ, for He is the author of free agency.. Truth and error cannot be reconciled. All you need to do is distinguish between them, accept the truth and forsake the error. That is what the Lord has always done. In fact, His ability to do so is, as we have seen, inherent in the intelligence which is His glory. The error of Lucifer and the truth of Jesus could not be reconciled even in heaven. Error had to be cast out (Ibid.). WHY MEN ARE ACCOUNTABLE As indicated above, man is a free agent with the right to choose. (Helaman 14:30.) BeLESSON DEPARTMENT cause he enjoys this right, aided by the "light of Christ," he is responsible for his acts. The additional truth is given in Section 93 that since man is intelligence, this divine essence, "light and truth," makes him responsible. All truth is independent in that sphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also; otherwise there is no existence. Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light. And every man whose spirit receiveth not the light is under condemnation (D&C 93:30-32). Because of the power in truth, man should be able to recognize it; for part of his being is "'truth and light." In the beginning, every spirit was innocent, but, in the war in heaven, Lucifer rebelled, taking many with him. These spirits lost their innocence, but those who kept their first estate come to earth in mortal bodies and are innocent. (Ibid., 93:38.) This innocence continues until the age of eight is reached, and then each person becomes accountable for his sins. (Ibid., 68:25-27.) THE VOICE OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD Light and truth are lost by men as they disobey the commandments. When it comes to accepting the truth of the gospel, men may not understand them because they have lost the ability to comprehend, due to the traditions of their fathers and of individual sin which have darkened their susceptibility to truth. (Ibid., 93:39; 76:75; JAMES E. TALMAGE, The Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 269-271.) The voice 707 SEPTEMBER 1966 of the Good Shepherd becomes too dim to be understood. Latter-day Saints may know the voice of the Master as they observe all the commandments. (John 10:1-14, D&C 50:17-22.) President Brigham Young asks and then answers the question: "How are we to know the voice of the Good Shepherd from the voice of a stranger?"... When an individual, filled with the Spirit of God, declares the truth of heaven, the sheep hear that, the Spirit of the Lord pierces their inmost souls and sinks deep into their hearts; by the testimony of the Holy Ghost light springs up within them, and they see and understand for themselves.... I have said to the Latter-day Saints, many and many a time, and I say to them now, live your religion, that the Spirit of God may be within you like a well of water springing up to everlasting life.... Be prepared that you may know the voice when it comes through the servants of God, then you can declare for yourselves, "This is the word of the Lord." My caution and counsel to the Latter-day Saints, and to all the inhabitants of the earth is—''Live so that you will know truth from error" (Journal of Discourses 16: 74-75). CHILDREN—LIGHT AND TRUTH The Lord has commanded Latter-day Saints to rear their children in "light and_ truth." (D&C 93:40). No person in the Church is beyond this commandment. Even members of The First Presidency, in 1833, were told that they had not kept this commandment. This was said of Presidents Frederick G. Williams and Sidney Rigdon, Counselors to President Joseph Smith. Unless they were obedient in setting their houses in order Satan would continue to have power over them. (Ibid., 93:41-44.) Even 708 the Prophet lacked in this matter also. An important truth was also taught regarding his family. Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place (Ibid., 93: 48). In other words, responsibility is not only the parent's but also the child's. But the major obligation is with the parents who are to teach their children principles of righteousness. (Jbid., 68:25-31.) The Family Home Evening program in use throughout the Church is one means by which this commandment can be lived by parents and children. No other people have as much opportunity to rear children in "light and truth" as do the Latter-day Saints. It is also true that no other people are under the same responsibility as the Latter-day Saints. When one considers the truth that children come from our Father and that what parents do or do not do for them here determines, in a large measure, their eternal future, the weight of this responsibility is better appreciated. CLASS DISCUSSION: What would happen in the world if parents brought up their children in "light and truth''? Latter-day Saint families are intended to be eternal. The association of parents and children | throughout the eternities is the desired goal of every faithful member of the Church. Eternal marriage is the qualifying ordinance, together with keeping the commandments and obligations received in the House of the Lord. The words of President Joseph F. Smith are especially pertinent to these thoughts: We are living for eternity and not merely for the moment. Death does not part us from one another, if we have entered into sacred relationships with each other by virtue of the authority that God has revealed to the children of men. Our relationships are formed for eternity. We are immortal beings, and we are _ looking forward to the growth that is to be attained in an exalted life after we LESSON DEPARTMENT have proved ourselves faithful and true to the covenants that we have entered into here, and then we will receive a fulness of joy (Gospel Doctrine, 10th edition, pp. 277-278). FOR CONSIDERATION Do you think a discussion on the kind of a life each member of the family should live in order to have the Holy Ghost as a constant companion would be helpful to them? Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 75 — "Obtain a Knowledge of History, and of Countries, and of Kingdoms, of Laws of God and Man, and All This for the Salvation of Zion'' (D&C 93:53). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To help us realize the importance of continued study by The land had to be cleared, and new houses and barns built. There was the restored Church to develop, leaders to train, renewed faith and perspective to acquire and unfold, missionary work to be done. It must have been staggering when the Lord, in the face of these tasks, instructed the saints through the Prophet Joseph Smith, to study, to obtain knowledge, to seek truth — "knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come" (D&C 93:24). Learning is an eternal process. The leaders obeyed this admonition. Learned and unlearned ourselves and our children. Sat down together to study the vast, all-inclusive course of study that the Lord detailed to the Prophet. Teachers and professors, some not members of the Church, were called to teach. Throughout the ages God has attacked the old and chronic social problem of ignorance. Through Hosea, almost three millenniums ago, the Lord said: ""My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge" (Hosea 4:6). During his earthly ministry Jesus stated that ''... The truth shall make you free' (John 8:32). In the Doctrine and Covenants it is revealed that "it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" 709 SEPTEMBER 1966 (D&C 131:6). We are also told that "if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (D&C 130:19). Since the scriptures attest to the great importance of gaining knowledge, a busy Latter-day Saint mother may ask: "What is my task? What should I do?" Her answer could be: "Study; obtain knowledge; seek truth; train yourself; teach your children." "What shall I teach them? What shall we study?" The reply: 'The laws and commandments of God—the gospel —and this with diligence and prayer." "This I am trying to do." "Good. In addition, as the scripture for this message states, obtain a knowledge of history, both ancient and modern. Study all countries and kingdoms." "How shall I do this?" "There are many and wonderful ways of learning about countries. Teachers can help. Books open the world to view. Travel when you can. Ask people about their countries and kingdoms. Television and radio can introduce you to the whole world in your own home." "Is there yet more?" "Qh, yes, exciting and without end. Now add the written and unwritten laws of men, as well as the customs and traditions by which they are governed in all the cultures of the world." "But how shall I do all this?" "Begin today on some part of it. Although you have limitless time, today is part of eternity and time is priceless." HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To summarize how the homemaker and her family can benefit through homemaking education; and to re-emphasize INTRODUCTION In "The Tale of Custard, the Dragon," the whimsical poem by Ogden Nash, American poethumorist, Custard longs for only 710 the objectives of the past year. One thing, "a nice safe cage." Have you as a homemaker ever felt like Custard, yearning for the confines of "a nice safe cage" to shut out the disrupting in- fluences which extract your energies, and to forbid the entrance of some activities for which you seem to be responsible? Have you ever longed for the demands of modern living to remain static just long enough for you to "catch up"? Much as the homemaker might share Custard's outlook, there is no hiding spot for her. She must make home the happiest, the most desirable, the most secure, and the most aesthetically satisfying place in the world—for her husband, her family, and herself. In this day of specialization, she must remain a general practitioner. The entire homemaking curriculum is hers to master with 'an intelligent mind and a trained hand." Education in homemaking experiences develops depth of abilities and understandings; it provokes intellectual excitement and provides the atmosphere which encourages the optimal personal achievement of each family member. TO DISCUSS 1. Why are some girls, the great majority of whom will marry and run their own homes, so repelled at the thought of receiving instruction at home and/or school in homemaking activities which will obviously be central in their lives later? (Point out among other things that some girls may not have been impressed favorably in their own homes relative to the value of homemaking. Elicit from the class the fact that the role of the homemaker is a powerful one in the development of the eternal verities in her family; and that she may well hold the fate of the world in her hands.) 2. In what ways do you feel that the homemaking profession needs upgrading? Discuss. 3. How can the study of the fine arts, such as music, literature, drama, LESSON DEPARTMENT add dimension to the life of the homemaker and her family? One modern American writer speaks of the knowledge which a homemaker brings to her calling as a jewel which can gleam just as brightly in the kitchen as when it is brought to the marketplace. She deplores the attitude assumed by some _ individuals that enlightenment is not for one concerned with such tasks as scouring the sink, mixing up a batch of chocolate brownies, or entertaining children. The homemaker, indeed, wears a precious jewel when her imagination is challenged, when there is adequate use of her experiences, and when exciting opportunities for creativity and learning are realized. MAKE YOUR OWN HEAVEN Attributed to Pliny the Elder are the stirring words, "Veritably it is a truism—that home is where the heart is." Equally impressive is the expression of the little girl, who having just moved to an apartment house, exclaimed, ""We have a home, but no house to put itn." Inescapably bound together are the heart, the mind, and the spirit in the creation of a happy home. The cooperation of the family and the degree of communication among them are the result of the parents' teaching and example. Willie Mae Rogers, director of the Institute of Good Housekeeping Magazine, at the Fifteenth National Home Laundry Conference, held in Chicago in 1961, shared a choice recipe from a reader. It follows: 711 SEPTEMBER 1966 "Daily Health Bread'"' Mrs. Lillian Keyser, Iowa City, Iowa 1 restful night of sleep 1 or more pleasant "good mornings" (depending on number of people present) 3 sensible meals—one at the start, the other two as needed 1 goal—necessary ingredient, but varies with the day of the week and the "temperature" of the household... 1 or more services for someone else (several are often needed and give satisfactory results—too many can ruin the batch) 1 or more pleasant conversations (phone call, letter or stimulating reading may be substituted) a dash of spice—taken or given by word of mouth or in book form a generous measure of each of the following: sense of humor, enthusiasm, courage, kindness, unselfishness, understanding, forgiveness, and integrity. These ingredients are the leavening agents and also what holds the loaf together. However, the next ingredient is the most important of all Love—This cannot be measured, but add a little every hour. This is what gives the flavor, shape, size and quality. Without this ingredient, your bread will be a failure. Thanksgiving—This is the catalyst that speeds the action of all the ingredients and makes them effective. 1 hour of relaxation—while it cools. Interesting additions: Children, pets, guests, relatives, crafts, clubs, hobbies, church and comntunity services, etc. Add separately or in various combinations. Too many will cause the loaf to grow beyond your control—and your digestion. Note: Sniffles, accidents, gossip, self-pity, etc., spoil the shape and flavor of the loaf. Avoid if possible. 712 Note: Some of the necessary ingredients are hard to find, some are hard to keep. Don't worry. Use what you have on hand and keep looking for the other ingredients. You are the maker of the loaf and you determine what you and your household shall be fed. (Reprinted by Permission of Good Housekeeping Magazine). It is heartening that there are women in the world today who have this concept of homemaking. SUMMARY '"'Wear yet a precious jewel" (Shakespeare) of learning; evaluate the results often—do not expect perfection every time in everything (unless, of course, you can isolate yourself in a mythical "'nice safe cage''); exercise patience; try to keep your sense of humor; bequeath to yourself that one hour of relaxation daily; practice empathetic understanding of your family always. Again—yours is a divine appointment by our Heavenly Father. You can make your home a happy place—an earlier heaven. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. What are the areas or specific problems in homemaking education in which you personally need the most help? List these on a piece of paper with your plans for solving them during the new year. Some may be solved, of course, in homemaking meeting. 2. Relate the various ingredients of the Daily Health Bread to you and your home. Be objective. Which ones might you choose for emphasis which you feel would result in a happier home? List these; consult the list each day or two; work conscientiously to incorporate them into your daily life. SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 8 (Lesson 20 in Series)—From Virtue to Virtue Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons—1966: Lesson 18) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To point out that we attain perfection by progressing INTRODUCTION This December lesson, which is concerned with the _ spiritual growth of the individual, may appropriately be associated with Christmas time. At this season, when all Christendom memorializes the life and teachings of the Savior, we are reminded of the need for more spirituality in our daily lives. Latter-day Saints have an additional reason for contemplating upon the mission and teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ at Christmas time, for Joseph Smith, the latter-day Prophet who restored the gospel to earth was born in the month of December. FAITH AND SPIRITUALITY In any discussion of spirituality, faith in God is basic, for spirituality and faith are interrelated, inter-dependent, and inseparable. They constitute a cycle of enlightenment and power. As our faith deepens, we become more perceptive to things of the spirit; as our spirituality is thus increased, our faith is strengthened, becoming more positive as a guiding influence in our lives. The extent to which this faith Spiritually, from virtue to virtue. Leads to spiritual power is dependent upon our willingness to be led by the Holy Ghost and by our willingness to obey the commandments of God. FROM GRACE TO GRACE (Used in its meaning of virtue to virtue) We know that Jesus was with the Father in the pre-existent world as one of the Godhead, yet he was born in the flesh to live among men. It is relevant and of interest to know that, according to scripture, Jesus progressed from grace to grace. '"And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man" (Luke 2:52). "John [the apostle] thus attests the actuality of natural development in the growth of Jesus from childhood to maturity: 'And I, John, saw that he received not of the fullness at the first.... But continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness, "' (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, page 119). (See also D&C 93:2-18.) We note how the Prophet Joseph Smith, whose life and work are well known to all Latter-day Saints, also grew from 713 SEPTEMBER 1966 grace to grace. An early indication of his later capacity for a spiritual fulness is seen, perhaps, by the faith which led him to seek his Heavenly Father for spiritual guidance when only a youth. A study of the Prophet's life reveals the years of preparation —from the time of the First Vision through repeated visits of the angel Moroni, and to the completed translation of the ancient record. The Prophet's willingness to follow the instructions of the angel and other divine counsel, kept him in tune with his Heavenly Father. '""When he first began his work, he received his revelations with the aid of the urim and thummim. As he grew in spiritual power, he laid aside the aid. He, himself, had become a suitable and competent receiving apparatus. Thereafter, he enquired of the Lord, without outside aids, and he _ received answers" (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.:: An Understandable Religion, pages 8-9). EXPECTED OF US Our Heavenly Father expects us to grow in spiritual stature until perfection is _ ultimately achieved. He does not expect perfection in a day. Constant striving toward this goal is to be the road to perfection. Nor can we expect to attain perfection at once. We can, however, overcome our imperfections and progress virtue by virtue. In some areas of our living, we can achieve perfection now by obeying particular commandments to the full. For example, we can be perfect in the payment of our tithes. Thus step by step, virtue by virtue, we will 714 grow spiritually as we accept precept upon precept of his revealed word and that of his prophets and willingly keep these commandments. QUESTIONS 1. Do you think there is a greater need for spirituality in our personal lives today than in the time of our parents? Give reasons for your answer. 2. What are the temporal rewards to the individual of increased spirituality? 3. Is your own faith in God stronger today that it was five years ago? 4. How do experiences cause faith to fluctuate rather than remain stationary? THE QUALITY OF FAITH That there may be periods of greater and of lesser faith in one's life seem evident in the following case study dialogue: Woman A: I wish I had the faith you seem to have. If I did, I'd go to church regularly, too. Woman B: If you did go, perhaps you'd have a greater faith. Would you like to know about the growth of my faith? Woman A: Do you mean that your faith hasn't always been as strong as it is now? Woman B: I think that I have always had faith, but it has not always had the same quality that it has at present. I hope to keep it always as sustaining and strong as I feel that it is at present. [ll tell you about it. About three years ago, I felt that I wasn't growing spiritually. Although I knew the gospel was true, I felt that I was living in a valley of little faith, so to speak. I know now that my faith needed nourishment. Today, I feel substantially stronger spiritually. Woman A: Just what did you do to bring you to this state of greater faith? Woman B: First, I appraised my activities, and found that I was becoming lax about attending church. I was associating with good women, but they were not religiously inclined, simply not interested in_ spiritual matters. I listed these facts and then proceeded to correct them. Woman A: Specifically, what did you do? Woman B: (1) I renewed my acquaintance with some of my former friends who were active in the Church with whom I have much in common. (2) I began to attend church regularly, noting the commitments I was making as I partook of the sacrament: that I was willing to take upon me the name of the Son, whose blood was shed for us; that I might always remember him and keep his commandments. This made me consider my activities in relation to those commandments. Incidentally, I am now putting a number of them into full practice. (3) I listened to the testimonies borne by others and realized that I, too, shared blessings for which others expressed gratitude about which I remained silent and unresponsive. Strengthened and more confident from bearing my testimony in Relief Society, I, at last, gained courage to bear my testimony in sacrament meeting. (4) Wanting to know more about the gospel I heard about in church, I checked through our library, to find a number of books relating to the Church which I had never read. I have since spent many luxury-hours reading in these books, and I am amazed at the spiritual insight this reading is giving me. Woman A: Does a strong faith require so much cultivation? Woman B: I would say that it all depends upon the quality of faith you wish to have. A deep and sustaining faith in God does require much nourishment and dedication. Woman A: Do you consider it worth all the effort and dedication you are giving? Woman B: For me it is most rewarding. And I have felt sometimes of late, as one, who having climbed a high mountain, breathes in, for the first time, the fresh, exhilarating air of higher altitude. I look back with much regret upon those former years, although I always believed the gospel was true. At present I am experiencing a spiritual buoyancy,. Completely unknown to the unbeliever, and not to be found in the lowlands of mediocre living. LESSON DEPARTMENT CLASS ACTIVITY Suggest several activities, not mentioned by Woman B., which might build a stronger faith. Discuss other circumstances which might strengthen one's faith or otherwise influence the quality of one's faith. SPIRITUAL BUOYANCY What is this spiritual buoyancy which characterizes the follower of Jesus Christ, but which may not be found in the unbeliever? It is the compass of faith giving direction to a man's life, with courage to meet its vicissitudes. It is the expression of hope, sustaining in time of sorrow: the knowledge of life hereafter that bridges the barrier of death. It is the peace of mind that comforts those who share, one with another. It is the faith that led a boy of fourteen to pray for wisdom in a woodland grove; the dedication to belief that pushed a handcart over miles of prairie sand and over mountain pass to a desert valley. It is the testimony of the humble, filled with gratitude for the blessing of life. It is the song of Zion, triumphant and rejoicing. It is the knowledge that those who keep the divine commandments may know the glory of family continuity in the celestial kingdom. This is the spiritual buoyancy that the Latter-day Saints may radiate to the world! CLASS ACTIVITY From the foregoing paragraph, we list the following, as basic to spiritual buoyancy. You may wish to suggest others. Faith Obedience Courage Hope 715 SEPTEMBER 1966 Knowledge of eternity Peace of mind Dedication to belief Testimony Gratitude THE SPIRITUAL CHRISTMAS What has spirituality to do with Christmas, one might appropriately ask, seeing the rush and flurry of Christmas preparation, seeing the mercenary aspects so definitely emphasized? It has this to do: The Christian celebration of Christmas is based upon that most significant of spiritual happenings—the birth of the Son of God. Although the gospel is designed to bring temporal as well as spiritual blessings, when the materialistic and tangible are excessively emphasized, we may become blind to the spiritual world, deaf to the words of divine counsel, and indifferent to the joys of the more abundant life. The Christmas season may provide incentive for adults seriously to appraise the direction in which their lives are moving, and to discover the values that are important to them. What are you worshipping? Many today worship the golden calf. This appraisal may lead one to see that mere earthly pursuits often may lead to disillusionment and even to moral disaster. The Christmas season provides a very excellent opportunity for mothers to implant religious faith in children. With scenes of the nativity of Jesus, hearing again the story of angel voices that heralded the birth of the Christchild, their believing minds are receptive to the truth that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Savior of mankind. To keep this fact 716 uppermost in the minds of children, during the festive celebration of Christmas, is the concern of the mother. CLASS ACTIVITY Suggest ways by which you can keep the central theme of Christmas from being submerged in the materialistic activity of the holiday season. How can you open the hearts of children to the real spirit of Christmas so that Christ's teachings may speak to them and admonish them to: 1. Be a peacemaker. 2. Think kindly thoughts. 3. Be charitable with others—kind to those who may not be their particular friends. 4. Be true to what they believe. 5. Be courageous against wrongdoing and injustices wherever they see them. 6. Believe with all their hearts that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is Christ the Lord. For eyes that can see beyond the ribboned gift and _ tinseled tree, there is a wide horizon for the spirit, where the real significance of Christmas is revealed in truth and beauty. The mother whose spirituality impresses her with this truth, may lead her children to see that the gift of gifts, which cannot be _ tissuewrapped and placed beneath a Christmas tree, is the gift of immortality, made possible by the sacrifice of Jesus, who is the Christ, the Savior, the Redeemer of mankind. Does not the entire family become spiritualized where the mother takes time, even during the rush of Christmas preparations, to share with her children the wonder of the star, to help them better to know the Boy who stayed within the temple court among the rabbis, when the feast was done? There is need for faith to fortify our youth, as well as to sustain those of mature years in today's world of war and stress. Might not the mother say to a departing, patriot son: My son—if ever you should stand As one alone, upon an alien hill While nuclear weapons threaten and confuse, Thinking of home, the long night white and still— You need not stand—a cynic, need not see How doubt cuts deeper than the Herod blade, Or know how dark the skeptic's world can be. Turn back the parchment page and memory-trace His gentle steps beside an inland sea, Follow the multitude on Jordan's plain Who know his healing power; there observe The sick made whole and breath renewed, at Nain. His every word, in each familiar place— Nazareth... Bethsaida Jerusalem— Will fall into a pattern of belief, The outline luminous and stencilclear, Bright as the noon on hills of Ephraim; A testament of truth in bold relief. Hold his words close, my son, and you will be Faith led, as shepherds were, when roused from sleep LESSON DEPARTMENT By angel-words, above the folds of sheep. (From "Christmas Words—for Today and Tomorrow," by ALBERTA H. CHRISTENSEN ) FOR DISCUSSION How do Lesson 3 "Personal Standards" and Lesson 4 "Seek and Ye Shall Find" relate to this lesson on spiritual development? (See the Relief Society Magazine, December 1965 and January 1966.) FOR HOME DOING 1. Read the 1965 Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum lesson No. 18, if available. 2. If possible, have an old-fashioned Christmas Eve, by reading aloud the story of the first Christmas Eve, as found in Luke, Chapter 2. 3. Give the gift of yourself, in a manner you have never before done, to someone less fortunate than yourself. 4. Make your home happy this Yuletide season with the sound of Christmas music that will help set a spiritual climate and leave the heart spiritually refreshed. NOTES TO CLASS LEADER All ideas and illustrations appearing in this lesson contribute to the general objective. The class leader, however, may wish to emphasize some of them even to the exclusion of others as she adapts the lesson material to her particular group. Those residing in the Southern Hemisphere who will study this lesson in May, may resolve to follow the suggestions personally at Christmastime in 1967, when the 1967 educational year has been completed. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 717 SEE THE WITH Cleon Skousen OCT. 11 DEPARTURE NAME MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR HOLYLAND TOUR = — tied - MURDOCK ADDRESS TRAVEL — STATE SEE UTAH Canyon Land Tours (Labor Day Holiday) Also individual tours of Salt Lake City and surrounding area MEXICO — $99.00 Tours to fit any budget from September to April ALASKA — $280.00 HAWAII — From $399.00 Depart Sept. 3 — Oct. 15 — Nov. 18 SHIP AND AIR TOUR Feb. 23—Mar. 9 Matson United Airlines Make reservations early for ship HAWAII FOUR-ISLAND WINTER PARADISE CRUISE aboard the SS LURLINE Starting at $590 per person Early reservations recommended Departs Jan. 27, 1967 Returns Feb. 12, 1967 ROSE PARADE TOURS 8 day tour 4 day tour by bus Also ask about air tours MEXICO, HAWAII, TAHITI, FIJI, ORIENT, AUSTRALIA and many other exciting places Tour departs in February Tours to Europe From $214 and up MARGARET LUND TOURS 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS.. « Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces... Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12", 33% rpm record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Not Air Mail) Produced and distributed by Communications Services Division Brigham Young University Provo, Utah 84601 718 COOK ELECT RIC Ses Pots and pans stay '"'white glove'' clean lf itS electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAR CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions alsa. Available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Renee Gledhill, Qwner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 BEAUTIFUL SOUTHERN PARKS HANDY Labor Day Tour September 3 DURABLE NEW ENGLAND-CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 3 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 15 to 30 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Francisco Dec. 27—Jan. 3 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Diego Dec. 27—Jan. 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain, West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durabie volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 ZonewG..%..%...90 Zone 3 60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 80 fi —: DESERET— EWS PRESS 719 102 Mrs. Lucinda Pace Redd Miss Mary Jane T. T | Monticello, Utah WG Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Zina Nielsen Cook 99 Mrs. Louis Rappleye Hunter Nelson 9] Salt Lake City, Utal Ferron, Utah Mrs. Hannah Encora Batty Elgin, Oregon 99 Mrs. Rebecca Wilson Wilson et 8 VY Richfield, Utah Mrs. Annie Seat Hunt Magna, Utah 9 Mrs. Matilda Sandburg Andrus Las Vegas, Nevada! Mrs. Mary Nelson Hoopes Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Sarah Virgin Shirley Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Nancy Jane Anderson Lang Milford, Utah Mrs. Emma Elizabeth Richards 'Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Harriet Elizabeth Coffen Mattish Mrs. Katherine Sontag Stockton, California Georgetown, Massachusetts, Mrs. Ida Mae Briles Heryford Mrs. Caroline Peterson Larsen.. Midvale, Utah Red Bluff, California. Ella Wilhel Mrs. Minna Mandelkow Kirchoff — Sain Stuart Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Betha Mallan Schmidt Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Anna Barfuss Rindlisbacher Dutson Mrs. Annie N. Merrill Amalga, Utah Preston, Idaho HER WAY lris W. Schow | moved the little radio From beside her chair, its usual place, And books crept like encroaching grass Across the shelf and filled the space. 720 FROM DESERET BOOK OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. Il By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $ 2.95 Postpaid anywhere This new book, patterned after the successful first volume, is themed to "Love, Marriage, and the Family." The material will be used with the Cultural Refinement course. Full-color illustrations enhance the choice literature and discussion materials prepared by Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas. SPECIAL PICTURE PACKET FOR SPIRITUAL LIVING LESSONS A wonderful and colorful way of brightening up your Spiritual Living lessons making them more meaningful and memorable. Includes copies of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, a chart showing the growth of the Church, reproductions of famous paintings, and colorful pictures depicting the work of the Church $ 1.25 Postpaid anywhere T] Deseret Book 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL ' SALT LAKE CITY Order from: 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Deseret Book Company, 44 East 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA p South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Sendme []OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. II [] PICTURE PACKET—SPIRITUAL LIVEnclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 2% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. Total$o0 00. Name Address City OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! 
