SWEETNESS IN YOUR LIFE! ANNIVERSARY | thank you for our wonderful Magazines. They become more _ beautiful each month. Such color! | have always loved the hobby pages, showing the sisters surrounded by their beautiful handwork. The March issue is especially beautiful, showing the lovely quilts and other works of art. R. May M. Foote Tulsa, Oklahoma Not long ago we were transferred to Boise from our lifelong home in Salt Lake City, Utah. | found myself alone, a stranger, yearning for a familiar sight or sound. How overjoyed | was when | discovered a dear friend smiling out at me, beckoning me already into a pictorial visit with the lovely place on its front cover and promising me gladness and _ inspiration through its printed pages, each story, poem, and article uplifting me in my desire to make my new home as dear a place of love and beauty for my family as the old home had been. Mrs. Monroe C. Gollaher Boise, Idaho | have grown up with The Relief Society Magazine. My mother would read the stories, and then tell them to us children as we husked corn, picked feathers, when preparing a chicken, and other chores. She also read the stories aloud to us before we were old enough to read them ourselves. As far as | can remember, our Church Magazines have always been included in our literary education. Kathryn A. Billings El Paso, Texas The Magazine is such a splendid publication! It always has so many informative and beautiful spiritual messages among its lovely pages. Ruth J. Huish SecretaryTreasurer Southern Arizona Stake Relief Society Douglas, Arizona 482 Ut ditt — am 3 y:.; L -. I I it, °! /, ee, if Cd © wt e ff a. Uf ee " )? ' X | want to express my appreciation fo the fine literature lessons and t challenging textbook ''Out of the B Books.'' We have found this book be most inspiring and all the lessc seem to have been prepared with a needs in mind. Eleanore D Vista, Califc It came as a pleasant surprise to when | read my April number of Relief Society Magazine and saw article (''Inspiration," page 296) the significant and graceful se which was arranged for it. The edi '"'The Flowers Appear on the Earth" Vesta P. Crawford) is beautifully ten, and is so warm and understanc | should like to express to all read the Magazine that they do al read the editorials. They belong to and are for us. They encourage us reach for our own_ resources strength, and they give us unity purpose. Clara Horne F Draper, Ut | love The Relief Society Magazine. Became a Latter-day Saint fourt years ago, and since then have been subscriber to the Magazine. About years ago, when | was quite upset é needed answers to my _ problems, found this wonderful book helped many times. | especially love the soci science lessons. They help me so much in my daily life. Olive C. Ho St. Johns, Newfoundle | truly enjoy The Relief Society Ma zine which comes to our home eé month. | especially enjoyed ''Approp ate Music Materials,"' by Cleon Eccles in the March Magazine. Article has given me added inspira as a chorister for the Santa S Ward Relief Society. Charlotte T Santa Susana, Califc th Relief Society magazine 

Volume 53 July 1966 Number 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 484 Involvement Teaching Stephen R. Covey 488 Zelma R. West Appointed to the General Board Alberta H. Christensen 490 Become a Friend of the Library Marianne C. Sharp 492 The Relief Society Magazine - Bearer of Light Wendell J. Ashton 507 They Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Jda A. Isaacson Fiction 497 Tell Me of Love Chapter 1 Rosa Lee Lloyd 508 Bag of Gold Hazel K. Todd 524 Wheat for the Wise - Chapter 7 (Conclusion) Margery S. Stewart General Features 482 From Near and Far 503 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 504 Editorial: A Pattern for the Daughters of Zion Vesta P. Crawford 506 Wealtha S. Mendenhall Resigns from the General Board 531 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 560 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 506 Elemental Eileen Giberson 515 Vacation Plans Kathryn E. Franks 518 Passing Sunlight Ethel Hopper 518 Dripless Candles Ivy Houtz Woolley 519 A German Holiday Buffet - Part II Carla Sansom 522 Songs My Mother Sang Genevieve Van Wagenen 523 Myrtle Kiddle Seely Achieves a Varied Artistry 557 Unfinished Business Amy Hillyard Jensen Lesson Department 538 Spiritual Living John's Testimony of Jesus Roy W. Doxey 543 Visiting Teacher Message "But I Have Commanded You to Bring Up Your Children. " Alice Colton Smith 544 Homemaking Put Sparkle in Your Meals Hazel S. Cannon 547 Social Relations That All May Learn Alberta H. Christensen 552 Cultural Refinement A Candle of Understanding Robert K. Thomas Poetry 481 Cycle Iris W. Schow If You Wait, Dorothy J. Roberts, 489; Prayer, Elsbeth Weiss, 496; The Legacy, Bertha A. Kleinman, 507; Reverie in Meadow Grass, Peggy Tangren, 514; A Day Like This, Maude O. Cook, 530; Morning By the Sea, Sylvia Probst Young, 557; Summertime, Margory E. Green, 558. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. J manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts IV LVTEIUEIN TL T ete cm |. 

Learning Is Changed Behavior — Your Divine Objective Class Leaders! Mothers! Let this thought permeate your whole soul: the purpose of teaching is learning: learning is changed behavior. Your objective, then, is to inspire and help the learners to develop more Christlike characters through more Christlike living every day. (3 Nephi 27:27.) Simple? Obvious, you say? Perhaps. However, carefully reflect on the strong tendencies in preparing and giving lessons to serve other objectives, e. G., "to cover material," "to get through the points," "to get the facts across," or even ''to stimulate intellectually," "to involve," "to impress." Divine knowledge or learning, the Savior taught, is a function of living or doing "the doctrine." (John 7:16-17.) Peter beautifully taught this same vital principle by emphasizing that a knowledge of Jesus Christ is the fruit of living or obeying divine principles, beginning with faith and ending with charity or divine love. (II Peter 1:3-8.) Knowledge is more than information — it ls conversion. Saturate your heart and your thinking with this lofty eternal aim, and you will discover it will constantly shape your preparations and teaching methods and dynamically influence your teach- 484 TEACHING Brigham Young University Administrative Assistant ing relationships. The most important single ingredient in teaching is your motive, your real objective. Il. Why Involvement Teaching? Unless the learner is involved —dynamically participates — in the learning process, very little, if any, learning (changed behavior) will result. This growth princip underlies our entire Church philosophy and tellingly distinguishes us from the professional "one man" approach to religion. The more the whole person (mind, heart, soul, and the senses) is involved, the more real, deep and permanent the learning or change. 1. Involving the learner helps to bridge the gap between the abstract (theory, principle, theology, "what should be") and the concrete (actual living, "what is'). Why? Because when the learner participates, you bring reality (feeling, real problems, actual behavior) to _ ideality (principles, theory). Unless this gap is bridged, then application of the principle or lesson to life is unlikely, even though there is a momentary inspiration and resolve to "do the thing." But, later, in the midst of the pressing and buffeting realities of life, old habits and attitudes reassert themselves. Something must b done in the learning process itself to inculcate new attitudes and to develop new skills, in addition to acquiring more informational knowledge, upon which new habits of life will be formed. For instance, to convince others of the importance of a loving, creative, spiritual home atmosphere, is most worthy. "But how" she asks herself "when my husband won't cooperate?" How helpful, practical, and motivating it would be to this sister and perhaps other sisters to develop a step-by-step program, starting with "what is" and moving to "what should be." But, of even greater help is to give training in developing the priceless skil] of communicating (empathy) with husbands and children—through demonstration and actual practice opportunity in the class itself. 2. Involvement teaching facilitates two-way communication. Communication is mutual understanding and it, therefore, of necessity, must be two-way to be effective. This means listening in order to understand. Such listening requires patience and courage, faith in and respect for others. The enemy of honest, unguarded communication is the tendency to judge, label, reject, manipulate. Unless the learner feels understood, that her "unique" circumstances and problems are considered, and that she, herself, is important, liked, and respected, then nothing which is taught "quite applies." Class Leaders, if you want to maximize your influence, particularly among those you "haven't yet reached," start listening, stop judging or criticizing within yourself. Build a relaINVOLVEMENT TEACHING tionship — try to feel the pulse and adapt your lesson accordingly. Whenever a person is sincerely listened to, understood, and respected, the defenses lower, openness and teachability result, Living the laws of love encourages obedience to the laws of life. Lll. How Effectively to Involve the Learner Intuitive life responses As illustrated, you note the interdependency and relationship between knowledge, skills, and attitudes. To influence or change one will, to some degree, affect or change the other two. Involvement teaching methods generally aim at all three simultaneously, thus maximizing the influence. People remember most of what they do, little of what they hear. Reading a lesson out loud, lecturing, conducting an abstract intellectual discussion, while useful methods in efficiently covering material, are, generally, ineffective as teaching (learning) methods. They are often used out of fear or inadequate preparation or out of simply "not knowing what else to do." Effective involving methods include: 1. Case discussions of real-life problem situations, embodying certain principles in the lesson, and calling for decisions and plans of action. 485 JULY 1966 2. Role plays (spontaneous or arranged beforehand) in which learners live out the plan of action in a simulated reality, or learn how to communicate and to practice other human skills. 3. Buzz groups are formed by breaking the larger group into smaller, less restraining groups to achieve any number of purposes, such as discussing the application of the lesson to life, considering practical problems, analyzing one part of the topic, making decisions, and determining a specific plan of action. When people can express themselves without fear of ridicule, censure, or embarrassment, they become more open to influence and to change. Small informal groupings tend to encourage this and to release the creative capacities of more individuals. 4. Other excellent involving techniques include panel discussions, symposiums, tableaus, indtviduals giving special reports, sharing experiences, testimonies, giving part of the lesson. Try new methods. Don't be easily discouraged or judge first attempts too harshly. Be patient with yourself. Involvement teaching skills don't develop overnight. As with any skill, proficiency only comes with preparation and practice. IV. Intellectual-Emotional-Spiritual Involvement Involvement occurs if the learner's mind and heart are "'in gear," even though she may not express herself verbally. 1. Testimony - Spiritual Appeals. We have all experienced soulstirring involvement in listening 486 to a powerful, inspiring message of a great leader or teacher. Our minds have been enlightened by the comprehensive eternal plan and view, our hearts softened and perhaps convicted by a spiritual message of repentance, our souls thrilled by a testimony of the living Christ and his marvelous work and wonder. Class leaders, never underestimate the power of sincere testimony. Bear yours fervently, naturally, frequently. Preaching the word of God has a "more powerful effect upon the minds of people than the sword, or anything else" (Alma 31:5). The Holy Ghost will confirm your testimony in the hearts and souls of the hearers. This is surely the most effective involvement, for it pierces to the very core and works on the roots of life. 2. Use a physical or natural illustration to teach a spiritual principle. Jesus Christ was a master in this with his use of parables. He would vividly describe real situations from the people's own experiences and draw out divine lessons. Then, each time the experience reoccurred or the scene reappeared, his divine lesson would be retaught. You can do the same thing. Cultivate your powers of observation, imagination, and description. Teach inductively—infer from the specific to the general. Often it is more powerful than deductive teaching — inferring from the general to the specific. Constantly draw spiritual lessons from the "seen" natural and physical processes in life. For example: 1. In teaching the divine prin- ciples of love, faith, patience, and supportive understanding in relationships, illustrate the seen process of slow, natural, physical growth in children. What about the unseen emotional, and social, spiritual growth processes? 2. In teaching justice or the law of the harvest (you reap what you sow), ask an untrained person to play the piano or to sing a solo. Apply the obvious learning to the development of any skill (cooking, tennis, or communicating). Observe the farming process from planting in the spring to harvesting in the fall. There is no shortcut in farming, in school, in rearing a family, in teaching Relief Society, in building relationships, in achieving any real success. 3. In teaching that the things of God, including a testimony, are given by the Spirit of God (see 1 Corinthians 2:9-14), pretend blindness and ask others to describe what it means to see. Technical information, analysis, and intellectualizing about sight won't help at all. To know God one must experience his Spirit, which comes from searching, prayer, study, worthiness, but not from human reasoning. 4. In teaching that faith is born of obedience (desire, experimentation, diligence, patience —(Alma 32:26-43), blindfold someone. Then ask three voices (one true, the others false) to direct her to her purse hidden somewhere in the room. On finding it, ask her how she discovered which voice was true and which false. Then try breaking into buzz groups to discuss the many additional insights and principles involved. INVOLVEMENT TEACHING Class Leaders, you are limited only by your imagination in drawing the spiritual out of the physical. THE ROOTS Effective involvement teaching isn't easy. It is highly demanding and spiritually exacting. Fundamentally, you teach the quality of your spirit. Therefore, your most vital preparation is spiritual. Learn first to master yourself, then get into the lesson content. You teach what you are, no more and no less, in the long run. Gethsemane was a private battlefield—Calvary a public one. Private victories precede public ones. Shallow spiritual preparation, mechanical prayer, and heavy reliance on lesson content and teaching techniques will not deeply influence others to change, though they may be impressed. The important problems you face as a class leader, or in your life, generally, are rooted spiritually (though the branches appear practical or technical) and the key to their solution also lies within yourself. Out of the heart flow the real issues of life. (Proverbs 4:23.) Learn to examine your heart. Root out doublemindedness, the father of instability. Repent and covenant. Eliminate hyprocrisy. Pray from your heart, privately, earnestly. Study the word of the Lord every day to feel and know the Author and his ways. "Let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds" (D&C 43:34). "T am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit; for without me ye can do nothing" (John 15:5). 487 Zeilma R. West Appointed to the General Board Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society Zelma Ririe West, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, April 13, 1966, was born in Ogden, Utah, the tenth child of Alexander and Elizabeth McBride Ririe. After her graduation from Weber College and her marriage to Wilburn C. West, she accompanied her husband _ to Washington, D. C.,. Where their four children were born: Wilburn Jr, a university graduate and married; Carolyn West Wilkinson, college graduate and mother of the West's five grandchildren; and Stephen and David undergraduate college students. The two older sons have served L. D. S. Missions. Sister West's early interests were in the field of dramatics and radio work. She was affiliated with KLO in Ogden, was a member of a community theater group and conducted a weekly story hour for young children. In later years she became active in P. T. A. Work, both in Arlington, Virginia, and in Utah. She has given many years of devoted service to the Church, her first administrative assignment, at nineteen, being that of a ward counselor in the YWMIA. She has also served in a Primary organization presidency. Her interest in Relief Society is a natural one, since her mother was a Relief Society president. She, 488 herself, has served in the presidencies of branch, ward, an stake Relief Societies, and ha for many years been a visitin teacher. In 1962, her husband wa called to preside over the Eastern States Mission and the Wests resided in New York City, remaining, by request, beyond th termination of their mission assignment, to assist Church _ participation World's Fair, until its close in October 1965. Zelma West brings. To th General Board the strength of deep and sustaining faith. He kind and friendly personality wil endear her to the women of Relie Society throughout the Chure Her willingness to serve and h mature thinking will make her valuable member of the Board. PHOTOGRAPH RD LUCE; "IF YOU WAIT Dorothy J. Roberts Out of low places, _ Flowers rise To paint a summer _ On. Gray skies. _ Softly; in-a low place, Song will start," A thought is born __ To lift thé leaden heart. Always in the depth Some new ray glows And silence Holds the shadow of a rose. The J. Reuben Clark. Jr. Library at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, U. S. A ip lei a hip Pop te 3 sfc » th (EST ORL ORE DAE TREY 8 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp THE LIBRARY COME A FRIEND OF a — E [=] n wv @ The J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Library of the Brigham Young University was dedicated on October 10, 1962. The exterior design is Ancient American or Mayan. Lorenzo S. Young was the architect. Two exterior murals were executed by Dr. Avard Fairbanks. The library is designed to serve not only the students and faculty of Brigham Young University but also as a research facility for the whole Church. It contains collections of primary interest to the women of the Church in many fields, including child training, home decorating, and literature. It has some 600,000 volumes. It also contains a Branch Genealogical Library. By checking with the Director's Office, groups may arrange a tour or to meet in a library seminar room for library related study or discussion. The library has five floor levels —two below ground level and three above. Services in the library, among many others, include blind patron services, a map collection, a microfilm room, newspaper reading area, typing rooms, Zerox copying, archives, documents collections, and a listening library with recordings of music, literature, drama, and a large number of historical documentaries and speeches. A memorial program has been set up through which friends and dear ones may be memorialized through a gift used to purchase books which are identified as memorial gifts. Each $5.00 contributed will place one book in the library, dedicated to the one memorialized. In September of 1965, the "Friends of the Brigham Young University Library" was actively organized under the direction of an Executive Committee, with Elder Marion D. Hanks as Chairman. The purpose of the '"'Friends of the Library" is to provide a medium through which persons interested in the library will have an opportunity to keep informed about library services and resources and contribute to library growth. The members of the organization will be encouraged to help the library locate original diaries, journals, manuscripts, and other historical materials that should be preserved. A newsletter will be published periodically that will keep members informed about library activities and important acquisitions. For the Brigham Young University to fulfill its destiny as a truly great university, it must have an outstanding research library. The future holds great promise for this Church-related institution and the J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Library. It is the hope that everyone will become interested in its development. Those who would like information about the "Friends of the Library" or desire to receive the newsletter, should write to "Friends of the Brigham Young University Library," Provo, Utah. 491 The Relief uociety Magazine _ a Bearer of Light —— Wendell J. Ashton [Address Delivered at the Magazine Department Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] @ Somehow, as I have approached this assignment on The Relief Society Magazine, my thoughts have gone back to my missionary days in Britain, and my mind has lingered in England's beautiful Lake Country, where a group of us missionaries observed the Fourth of July 1934. This is the area which gave to us our third President of the Church, John Taylor. The Lake Country is an Eden of brilliant flowers, symphonies of leafy trees, quiet waters rippled by swans and sailboats, and white stucco homes. In one of these cottages, in Grasmere, lived a poet, a former orphan boy, who penned some of the noblest verse of the nineteenth century. His name: William Wordsworth. Wordsworth wrote at least two poems titled 'To the Skylark," 492 and his contemporary, Percy B Shelley, wrote a well-known poe with the same name. But let refer now to the skylark Wor worth addressed in his ve written in 1825. He called t bird a "pilgrim of the sky." the lark winged higher towar the heavens, he asked: Or, while the wings aspire, are hear and eye Both with thy nest upon the de ground? Wordsworth verse: concludes hi True to the kindred points of Heave and Home! Truly, that Lake Country po seemed to see in that skylark link between heaven and hom That is what I see in The Reli Society Magazine. It is mo than an ordinary woman's mag zine. It brings heaven closer home, and home closer to heaven. You and your counterparts 1 all the wards and branches a much more than Magazine repre sentatives, as important as tho positions may be. You are indeed bearers of light which brin heaven to home in these changing, challenging times. You ca to the world the only periodical on earth which delivers the pure, restored gospel of the Master in a gift especially packaged for women. Jesus could have been speaking to you when he, the resurrected Lord, addressed the multitude after he had instituted the sacrament among the Nephites: "Hold up your light that it may shine unto the world" (3 Nephi 18:24). The women of the world today need that light. They need th THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - BEARER OF LIGHT monthly messages of The Relief Society Magazine more than ever, as we now approach the final third of the twentieth century. May I suggest three areas in which your Magazine is needed. 1. It is a constant amid change. In a message, "Reflections on The Age of Change," published in Advertising Age we find these provocative words: Today, about 25 percent of all human beings who ever lived are alive. And 90 percent of all the scientists who ever lived are alive. The rate of the world's population increase has doubled in this center third of the 20th century. Seven out of 10 medical prescriptions filled by pharmacists in 1965 were not even known 30 years ago. At that time, only one farm in every ten in the United States had commercial electrical service. And we were still a rural nation. Now the urban areas exceed the rural areas in population; only 10 percent of our citizens now supply all our agricultural needs (Reprinted with permission from the August 2, 1965, issue of Advertising Age. Copyright 1965 by Advertising Publications Inc.). The world's population during the last third of this century will almost double, increasing from 3.3 billion now to 6 billion in the year 2000, it was reported at an industrial conference sponsored by Stanford Research Institute and National Industrial Conference Board. North America's population will gain 64 per cent, the report says; Latin America's, 157 per cent; Europe's, 15 per cent; Asia's, 89 per cent; and Africa's, 151 per cent. The home life of women is changing markedly through automation and other new developments. For example, it is reported that there are now more homes in the United States with television sets than there are with bathtubs or showers, and last year the average home had television on over five hours a day. The Department of Labor tells us that approximately one-third of America's married women are now working outside the home. Just over fifty years ago there were available to the women of the world only eight electrical appliances, and few homes had even one of them. Today there are over 200 of these electrical servants available to the homemaker. This automation in the home gives women time they had never dreamed of thirty years ago. For example, an automatic clothes dryer saves the average homemaker twenty eight-hour working days a year, according to an Ohio State University study. It has been reported that the average American homemaker today has at her fingertips electrical appliances and equipment with a total horsepower of approximately sixty-five. Allowing the strength of one horse equal to that of twenty-two men, she has in her home the strength of some 1,430 men—in addition to her own husband! How is this extra time being used? For shallow pleasures or more culture and faith and family solidarity? The constancy of The Relief Society Magazine is needed amid these shifting patterns in the home. There is the challenge, too, to reach through the Magazine as well as through the warmth of our own thoughtfulness, those women so often forgotten: the widows, also those who have not enjoyed the blessings of marriage, 493 JULY 1966 and those who reside in homes where the Priesthood is not active. Now approximately every other woman over sixty in the United States is a widow, and the number of widows has about doubled in the past thirty years. There are almost four times as many widows as widowers. 2. The message of the Magazine is needed to strengthen homes. Juvenile crime continues to climb in the Free World. Mother's apronstrings, at least in a large segment of our homes, seem to have lost their pull. It has been estimated that 286,000 infants were born out of wedlock in 1964 [in the United States], up about 24 per cent from 1960 and nearly double the 1950 total. More than ever before, the homes of the world need the refining, strengthening influence of the message of the Master. Samuel Johnson said: "Men more frequently require to be reminded than to be informed." President David O. McKay, after describing an old piece of cloth woven by his grandmother, said: The ideals of true womanhood may sometimes seem as old-fashioned as that old piece of homespun cloth, but they are as unchanging and everlasting as the soul itself. The highest ideal for our young girls today, as for our mothers who crossed the plains, is love as it may be expressed in marriage and home building (McKay, Davin O., Pathways to Happiness, page 380). 3. The Magazine serves as a missionary. In an old Norwegian city beside a zigzagging fjord, there lived in a 494 two-room apartment, in 1879, the young widow of a schoolmaster and her two small sons. One day when her son John's shoes were delivered from a shoemaker, the widow found pieces of literature tucked in the shoes. They were missionary tracts of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. On her next trip to the shoemaker, as she was about to leave his shop, he commented, hesitatingly: '"You may be surprised to hear me say that I can give you something of more value than soles for your child's shoes." She was surprised, but two years later she was_ baptized. The shoemaker had given her something more valuable than soles for her son's shoes. Her two sons were also baptized, and one of them, John A. Widtsoe, became a member of the Council of the Twelve. As_ representatives of The Relief Society Magazine, you are missionaries. The Magazine has the same message which Anna Widtsoe found in those tracts in the boy's shoes. Your Magazine, with you, can become a great missionary. I commend you stake representatives, your associates in the wards and branches, and the editors and staff of the Magazine for your achievement in spreading the influence of this monthly messenger around the world. The circulation of the Magazine now exceeds 244,000, compared with 74,032 in 1945—an increase of more than treble in twenty years. That is even greater growth, proportionately, than that of the membership of the Church. During the same period, Church ': THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - BEARER OF LIGHT membership has gained approximately two and a half times. You can be proud of your Magazine. It is well organized and carefuly edited, and has an attractive format. Yet it costs less than a quarter of a penny a page! But how can we motivate our ward representatives to be even more effective? May I suggest three ways. First, excite them about their assignment as Magazine representatives. No man has motivated so many people so effectively for so long a time as Jesus. Let Mark tell you how Jesus asked Peter to accept a most challenging assignment. It was to preach a way of life that was to cause Peter's countrymen to rise up against him. Peter was to die for that message. He probably had little experience as a preacher. He was a fisherman. He no doubt liked fishing, and he was probably very successful, because he and _ his partners employed others. Jesus made his call exciting to Peter and his brother Andrew. To them the Master said: "Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men" (Mark 1: 17). Your ward and branch counterparts are more than Magazine representatives. They are bearers of light. Make their assignments glow—glow with the importance these assignments can achieve. Second, encourage them. James B. Hall is a former poor boy who has become president of the Kroger Company, with 1,450 stores, and sales which have quadrupled under his twenty years of leadership. One of the editors of Nation's Business recently interviewed him. The editor asked: "What's the best way to stimulate people you work with?" Mr. Hall's reply began: '"Encouragement. I think the executive's job is encouraging people to think and act." Irving Ben Cooper, as chief justice of the Court of Special Sessions in New York City, a few years ago described a woman who motivated him, and many other men and women of distinction. She met him in high school, where she was a teacher. He was an immigrant boy from London. He wore patched pants and shoes reinforced with cardboard. She put her arm around him and made him feel important. He never forgot her encouragement and her counsel: 'Serve with honor, not for honor."' Her name: Calla Varner. One of the best forms of encouragement is to let your associates know that you know what they are accomplishing—continually. Third, exalt them. Every man and woman is really a multitude. When that shoemaker brought the message of the restored gospel to Anna Widtsoe, it was not the beginning of a solo conversion. After her baptism came those of her sons. How many lives has that one son, John A. Widtsoe, influenced for good? Yes, in a way, Anna Widtsoe was a whole multitude of men and women. Similarly, as a Magazine representative serves effectively, she becomes a multitude—a multitude of influences for the building of the kingdom. Recognize her, acknowledge her good works. Exalt her. 495 JULY 1966 May I conclude with the observations of two contemporaries, men who lived over 2,300 years ago? The first was Jarom, the prophet son of Enos. Jarom lived in this Western Hemisphere in the fourth century before Christ. There are only fifteen verses in his book in The Book of Mormon. He told how the prophets, priests, and teachers labored diligently among the Nephites, "... Persuading them to look forward unto the Messiah, and believe in him to come as though he already was " (Jarom 1:11). This is a powerful message for us today: fervently to bear the light and teachings of the Master, as though he had come again. The other contemporary lived in Athens during the fading glory of ancient Greece. He was the son of a manufacturer of cutlery and couches. The boy was weakly, awkward, and with stammering speach. It is said that he put pebbles in his mouth to correct his halting speech. He became the greatest orator in all Greece. His name was Demosthenes. In his day there was a threat to Greece from a monarch in the north—Philip of Macedon. For years Demosthenes rallied Athens to stand against Philip and to preserve democracy. It is said that Demosthenes once remarked to his formidable rival in oratory, Aeschines, who favored cooperation with the enemy: ''You make them say: 'How well he speaks.' I make them say: 'Let us march against Philip.' "' May those whom we would lead, the Magazine _representatives in the wards and branches, say after we have spoken, after we have excited, encouraged, and exalted: "Let us march. Let us march as representatives of the great Relief Society organization. Let us march in spreading the message of this Magazine—beacon light of hope, beauty, and charity. Let us march in helping bring heaven closer to our homes." O Lord, give rhythm to my soul, That | may understand and love my fellow man— So he'll unveil his soul to me, | PRAYER And let me see the struggle and the Elsbeth Weiss strife To be his best—that we may share Our joys—and sorrows, too; 7 And make this world a paradise, Which thou hast made for us To live and love and rise. 496 @ Julie Ann Ridgehaven sat down breathlessly beside her chum, Betz Condon, in the twinengine jet plane at the International Airport in Inglewood, California. There was an ache in her heart and anxiety in her eyes as she took the cablegram from _ her purse and read it again. It would be twenty hours before they arrived in Sydney, Australia, her home. Almost two days, she thought, with a forlorn sigh, before she would know -the reason Aunt Isabelle had sent for her! Her dark-fringed blue eyes clung to the words of the cablegram: "Come at once. Jet plane. Emergency. Lovingly, Aunt Isabelle." "Don't read it anymore," Betz coaxed her. "Just hope for the best. I wish you could have telephoned her before we left."' "But I tried," Julie answered, tearfully. 'There wasn't time. Look how we rushed to get here. I couldn't have made it without Chapter 1 Rosa Lee Lloyd your help, Betz. All the girls in the dorm helped, too." "We can thank Daddy for getting our tickets,'' Betz added, "and Gordon. He wangled us through that heavy traffic. He knows all the sideroads. He's so —so utterly capable!'' Her voice trailed off lyrically. "Righto!" Julie agreed with true Australian enthusiasm. "He is a real cobber—lI should say pal over here. How you must hate to leave him on campus!" "IT do, I do!" Betz puzzled her eyebrows together thoughtfully. "I'm not quite sure I want to marry Gordon. I have to be really sure, the way you are about Ron. So when mother and Daddy said it was okay for me to come with you because you needed me— well, it just seemed providential, as Professor Greenman would say." Providential, Julie repeated to herself. She was always amused when Betz used an impressive word in the middle of her ram- 497 JULY 1966 bling talk. But what would Aunt Isabelle and Grandfather Ridgehaven say when she presented Betz as their guest on a serious occasion like this? They were gracious, genteel people and always hospitable; but they were also conservative. They were determined to maintain the old traditions in spite of many changes in their homeland. "You should try to sleep,' Betz said, adjusting a pillow behind Julie's head. "Here, let me put your banjo somewhere else so you can rest better." Julie shook her head. She wanted her banjo close beside her; it was like holding on to Ron McLaren's hand, comforting and reassuring. "T want to make you comfortable," Betz insisted. '"'You've been awake all night." 'So have you," Julie answered. "Aren't you sleepy, too?" "Oh, no!" Betz laughed. "I don't sleep when I'm on a trip. There's so much to see and so many people to talk to. Julie— do you think I'd make a good airline hostess?" Julie closed her eyes. She did not want to answer that question. Betz was so undecided about what she wanted from life that every time she met someone in an interesting occupation, she wondered if that was the career for her. Last week she wanted to be a foreign correspondent because Professor Greenman had praised her work in their journalism class, then, two days later, she thought it might be worthwhile to be a dental assistant. That was after she had been to her dentist. Betz was trying to find herself, Julie thought with 498 tender compassion. She was a brilliant student, and her grades were so high that her parents did not worry about her. Now she had seen the pretty, efficient airline hostess and wondered if that was what she wanted to be. "T could fly around the world," Betz said, dreamily. '""Why don't we both be airline hostesses, Julie? Oh, I forgot,'' she added with a shrug, "'you want to marry Ron and have a _ sweet little family. You don't want to accomplish things in this world." "T call that a great accomplishment," Julie answered tightly. SHE hoped Aunt Isabelle and Grandfather would appreciate Betz' good qualities and forgive her talk about what she was going to accomplish in this world. Julie often wondered, in her quiet way, how Betz would meet both disappointment and _hardship when something had to be overcome instead of merely talked about. It was easy to be a brave talker when you had loving parents, as Betz had, who gave in to her in every way. "I'm going to sleep," Julie said, leaning back against the pillow with a wistful sigh. Leaving Sydney last August to go to school at the University of Southern California had been _ entirely Grandfather's idea. Neither Aunt Isabelle, nor any of the Ridgehaven family would have interfered with his decision. They knew he wanted his grandchildren to learn something about other countries. Julie and Ron had wanted to marry and go to the University in Perth, Western Australia, where Ron was studying for his engineering degree. But Grandfather had made an ironclad rule for all his grandchildren. Each must have a degree from a university before marriage. He did this because his eldest son, Robert Ridgehaven, Julie's father, had married without his permission. Robert had met her mother, Noreen McKane, while he was in England with a battalion of the Australian Army. She was a pretty Irish girl, and he asked the branch president to introduce them at a branch dinner. Later, the president and his wife invited them to dinner. They had fallen in love and were married two weeks later. Ten years later, Uncle John, grandfather's youngest son, had married Cleo, a girl from the bush. This made grandfather more determined than ever to enforce his decision. Grandmother had even asked Bishop Sloan to reason with him, but he would not change his mind. "Australians must be educated," he said. ''So I will start with my own family." AFTER the war Julie's parents had gone to one of the Ridgehaven properties, at Dry Creek in the bush of Western Australia. Julie was born there a year later, with only her father and an Aborigine woman to help. When Julie was nine years old, her parents had both died in a devastating bush fire that destroyed their home and_ their sheep. Julie and Ron McLaren, an TELL ME OF LOVE eleven-year-old boy from the next station, had been playing badminton on a court in the paddock not far from the house at the time. They heard the crackling roar of the fire and saw the flames hemming them in from all directions. "Mummie! Daddy!" Julie had screamed, running for the house. But Ron had grabbed her hand and pulled her into a deep pit nearby. They were the only ones alive in a ghostly desert of ashy cinders, crumbling houses, and dead sheep. Six days later, Aunt Isabelle, who had come from Sydney with a search party, had found them there. They had survived on carrots, potatoes, and sweet pickles stored for emergency use in the pit. Aunt Isabelle took them both home to Sydney and nursed them back to health. She was devoted to the Ridgehaven family and to Ron. Grandfather and Grannie had adopted him and reared him as their very own. But Aunt Isabelle had puzzled Julie. Why did she keep postponing the date of her marriage to big, kind, generous Dr. George McGregor? Julie remembered hearing Grannie scold Aunt Isabelle late one night, six years ago. '"'Why do you act so strangely, Isabelle? Dr. George has been eager to marry you for the last two years. You make all sorts of ridiculous excuses—yet I know you love him. Last month as soon as your teaching position was over, you insisted on that sudden holiday to Perth. And, alone, Isabelle. Now tell me why?" Julie could not hear Aunt Isabelle's answer, but it evidently 499 JULY 1966 did not satisfy Grannie, who said: "I feel like a mother bird who should push you out of the nest and make you face the world. Dr. George is a fine doctor who wants to carry out his plans while he is still young and vigorous enough to brave the outback. You should go with him, Isabelle." There was a long silence. Julie had hurried away to her own room. Why had Aunt Isabelle refused to answer Grannie—Aunt Isabelle who was always so calm and invincible? Julie couldn't sleep, wondering about it. Six months later Grannie had died, and Aunt Isabelle told everyone she was needed at home. But Aunt Tricia and Uncle Geoffrey had offered to come and take care of Grandfather, and Julie, and Ron. And Wally, their son, told Julie they could all have a beaut of a time, living at Grandfather's. But Aunt Isabelle refused the offer. Soon after that Dr. George gave up his practice in Sydney and went to the great, wild, country north of Perth, three thousand miles away. He started a medical clinic and made himself available to go by plane when he was needed in the bush. It had been his boyhood dream to help people who had no way of getting to a doctor. After he had gone away, Aunt Isabelle was only a shadow of herself. She could not eat, and Julie would hear her up in the night, restless and grieving. But her pride was a wall around her. She would not admit her mistake. She did not mention his name, and no one, not even Aunt Tricia, asked her about him. She was as unyielding in her decisions and as 500 self-controlled as Grandfather, who had sailed the seven seas with the Royal Navy before he was retired and settled down in Sydney. He and Aunt Isabelle would have considered it an insult to the Crown and the P. M. To give way to their emotions or forsake their duty in any way. A little sick feeling came over Julie as she realized they did not make decisions without careful consideration, and they would not have sent a cablegram for her to return unless it was very urgent. Who was ill, maybe dying? Her heart questioned. Why hadn't Aunt Isabelle added one more word to that cablegram? She should remember that Julie was half Irish, with the emotional temperament of the Irish. She was like her mother, regardless of her rigid upbringing. Her Irish nature was always flashing through like the red-gold in her brown hair and the shiny glints in her blue eyes and the freckles that splashed her nose. Away back in her ancestry, Julie was sure there was someone who played the flute or read poetry on a green hillside or danced and sang in the woods looking for leprechauns. If she had _ been Aunt Isabelle she would have married Dr. George McGregor and gone with him to the NeverNever Land. Her mother had gone there with her father twenty-two years ago, when it was one of the most sparsely populated areas in the world. It was still desolate and barren, but since World War II, there were thousands of new Australians who wanted to make it prosperous and livable. Julie always felt happy that there were still people in the world who had the spirit and courage of the pioneers of her own religion. Her mother and father had taught her to pray and have faith and trust in her Heavenly Father. So now, she lifted her heart to him and prayed for each one of the Ridgehaven family: big redheaded Uncle Geoffrey, who was a construction engineer for the Opera House being built on Sydney Harbor; his wife, lovely darkhaired Aunt Tricia, who always made Julie think of an old Chinese proverb: "A woman without religion is like a flower without fragrance." Aunt Tricia lived her religion. The fragrance of her faith helped her to comfort Uncle Geoffrey so that they could overcome the tragedy when their little daughter had fallen from a high rock while playing on a ridge above their home. She and Uncle Geoffrey had Wally to live for; he was Julie's age, twenty-one, tall and redheaded like Uncle Geoffrey, with a carefree, rollicking laugh. He was studying (because Grandfather insisted) to get a university degree so he could marry Sue Ellen Grant, one of the loveliest girls in Sydney. Julie hoped she would wait for him. A little smile tipped Julie's lips as she remembered the difference between Aunt Tricia and Aunt Cleo, Uncle John's wife. It had taken ten years of patient, untiring effort on Aunt Tricia's part to polish off the rough edges TELL ME OF LOVE of Aunt Cleo's early life in the bush, so she could conform to Grandfather's conventional ideas. Grandfather liked Aunt Cleo now. He didn't wince anymore when she spoke, because Aunt Tricia had gently, but firmly, weeded out the jargon of the locality where she had been born and reared. Now, she went to Relief Society with Aunt Tricia, and she loved the lessons. She stopped using a brilliant yellow glint on her hair, and Aunt Tricia went with her to buy her clothes. Grandfather loved and enjoyed their little sons, Kip and Brown, who were named for the poets Kipling and Browning. But underneath the new polish, Aunt Cleo was still Aunt Cleo who sometimes laughed too loudly when Aunt Tricia wasn't around, still walked with a bounce, and piled her hair on top of her head topsy-turvy fashion. Her children and Uncle John adored her, and Julie loved to be with all of them. Aunt Cleo was their playmate; she could hike and hunt, and was a better shot than some of the men in the family. "Another university degree," Aunt Cleo had laughed, when Kip was born a year ago. "Grandfather'—her voice trembled in spite of her laughter—'"you will be proud of us yet. These little Aussies have the blood and thunder of the real Australian pioneers flowing in their veins." "'And the blood of the EnglishAustralian gentleman," Grandfather had added, as his chin lifted proudly. I love all those dear ones, Julie thought. She even remembered Casey Jones, Ron's big old Kelpie out on Grandfather's prop- 501 JULY 1966 erty. He must be lonely, too, living there, and only seeing Ron once in awhile when he came back from Perth. Julie's eyes squeezed tight to hold the tears back. Please, take care of Ron, she _ whispered. Wherever he is out in that great, wild, beautiful country, take care of him and let us be together soon. Real soon. The big plane roared on its way. Most of the passengers had settled down to read or sleep, and, at last, Julie drifted off into a long, dreamless slumber. Miany hours later she was awakened as the voice of the stewardess came clearly over the loud speaker. "Attention, everyone! We are now landing on the Fiji Islands, the paradise of the Pacific. We will take off from here in exactly one hour. Please synchronize your watches with mine. We have passed the international date line. It is now five a. A new day. Have a happy visit in Fiji." "Fiji!" Julie sat upright looking at Betz with wide, unbelieving blue eyes. "'Where was I when we stopped at Honolulu?" "This plane doesn't stop at Honolulu," Betz told her. "Julie, this is Miss Carolyn Bridges, matron at the Royal Hospital in Perth. She is a graduate of the University where Ron is now. That should wake you up!" "Oh, it does!" Julie smiled at the woman across the aisle. She was about Aunt Isabelle's age, in her early forties. "I'm happy to meet you, Miss Bridges.. Have you ever heard of Ron McLaren out there? He's in the engineering school." 502 "No, my dear.' Miss Bridges smiled indulgently. "I wish I could say I had. He must be a fine young man. There are so many new students this. Year, especially in the engineering school. Australia expects great things from them." "Oh, yes!" Julie exclaimed. "Ron will be an hydraulic engineer. In his last letter...." "Come on, Julie," Betz cut in. "'We have one hour to see Fiji." "What is your last name?" Miss Bridges asked Julie as they started down the aisle. "Ridgehaven," Julie answered, feeling a surge of pride as she always did when she said the family name. "Ridgehaven," Miss _ Bridges repeated. "Are you a relative of John Robert Ridgehaven?" "He is my Grandfather," Julie answered. "Do you know him?" "T have heard of him," she said. "He represents the grand old part of Australia that we don't want to lose. He has done much for education with both his money and his influence. We have advanced in recent years and have established great universities." Then she added thoughtfully, "Your Grandfather must be quite elderly by now. Is he well?" Fear tightened Julie's throat. Is he well? Her heart repeated. Was Grandfather the emergency? Oh, no, she almost cried out. Grandfather was the anchor of the Ridgehaven family. He was their guardian and their guiding light. She drew a long breath for courage as she lifted her head and went down the steps from the airplane. (To be continued) S a "Ss, Woman's "a, Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Harry (Bertha Marion) Holt, sixtyone, of Cresswell, Oregon, was named American Mother of the Year at the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D. C., the evening of May 4, 1966. In 1955, the Holts added eight Korean children to their own six in their farm home, and soon founded an adoption program which has been responsible for 3,500 Korean waifs. An orphanage of thirtysix buildings houses 557 children. Mrs. Holt has a nurse's degree from the University of lowa and has written a book about the orphan project. Mrs. Harvey Fletcher, of Utah, last year's national mother, presented the citation to Mrs. Holt. Mrs. Wallace F. Bennett, wife of Utah's senior Senator (daughter of former L. D. S.. Church President Heber J. Grant) was honorary chairman of the affair, and she presented half of the State Mothers as they took their bows. Three of the fifty State Mothers were Latterday Saints. Mrs. Vida Driggs Brinton, teacher, organizer of recreation, charity worker and mother of eight children, from Mesa, represented Arizona. Mrs. Annetta Vincent Wood, teacher, community and Church worker, and mother of five, from Oakland, was the California Mother. Mrs. Irene Thompson Fletcher, of Logan, Utah, married a professor with eight children, bore six, Carried on her work as an artist, and inspired several of the children to become artists. A highlight of the dinner entertainment came when one hundred Relief Society Singing Mothers from Washington and Potomac Stakes, under the expert leadership of Ellen N. Barnes, General Board member, sang five numbers. Edith Iglauer, wife of the New Yorker writer Philip Hamburger, is the author of an informative and emotionally appealing book on the Eskimos, The New People (Doubleday Company). The book relates the experiences and attitudes of the Eskimos during the initiation and development of a Canadian Government program to help the Indians achieve a degree of independence through preparing and marketing the commodities available to them, and in establishing credit unions. Some of the products being marketed include muktuk (whale skin), corned and roasted seal meat, sweet-and-sour whale, walrus flippers vinaigrette, and frozen char, a delicious fish, similar to salmon. Mrs. Jerrie Mock, the ''flying Grandmother,'' achieved the non-stop distance record for women, in April. She bettered the record previously held by three Russian women. She flew the great circle route 4,550 miles. Mrs Mock already held the record of being the first woman to fly across the Pacific Ocean from west to east, and the first woman to fly a_ single-engine plane across the Pacific in any direction. Dr. Katharine Boucot, chairman of the department of preventive medicine at Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania, is a noted scientist in cancer research. Her studies indicate that lung cancer is five times as prevalent among heavy smokers as among occasional smokers, and in one investigation no lung cancer was found. Among 805 nonsmokers. 503 504 EDITORIAL Volume 53 July 1966 Number 7 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart trene W. Buehner Edith S. Elfiott Irene C. Lloyd Florence J. Madsen Hazel S. Love Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp Bianche B. Stoddard Celestia J. Taylor Evon W. Peterson Anne R. Gledhill Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Josie B. Bay Zola J. McGhie Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Mildred B. Eyring Lila B. Walch Edith P. Backman Lenore C. Gundersen Winniefred S. Manwaring Marjorie C. Pingree Elna P. Haymond Darlene C. Dedekind Mary R. Young Cleone R. Eccles Mary V. Cameron Edythe K. Watson Afton W. Hunt Ellen N. Barnes Wealtha S. Mendenhall Kathryn S. Gilbert Elsa T. Peterson Verda F. Burton Fanny S. Kienitz Myrtle R. Olson Elizabeth B. Winters Alice C. Smith LaRue H. Rosell Lucile P. Peterson Jennie R. Scott Elaine B. Curtis Alice L. Wilkinson Zelma R. West A PATTERN FOR THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION Sing, O daughter of Zion... Be glad and rejoice with all the heart.... The Lord hath taken away thy judgments, he has cast out thine enemy. Thou shalt not see evil any more (Zephaniah 3:14-15). There are many women who seem to be blessed with an inward quietude, with a_ serene strength. It is not that their lives have been easy, or that they have received a full measure of temporal blessings, rather, it would appear, they have learned patience and self-discipline, and in all their comings and goings, in all their joys and their trials, they have been comforted, encouraged, and enlightened by faith. It is as if a great light had been placed along their pathways, revealing the purposes of earth, and establishing a testament of guidance from the beginning to the farewell time of mortal life. It is as if there had been developed and_ exercised continually a reverence for the teachings of the Master—hold thy peace; be just and forgiving; judge not; speak no evil... Await the certain coming of the Lord. Such attitudes and beliefs are not fully achieved in the lives of most of us, yet, to a degree and in a certain measure, all are aware of these objectives. All of us have observed that among women there are those whose mastery of self has become so evident, that they are able and willing to give to others some part of their own great store of spiritual richness. Who among us can give to others that which she does not herself possess? Herein, perhaps, lies the basis for individual progress and for effectiveness in all group relationships—in the family, among friends, in civic responsibility and participation, in our devotion to Relief Society. We ourselves need to be of worth, and, from that faith and strength, seek out and establish ourselves in further fields of usefulness. It may be noted, often with great significance, that there are special graces and attributes which endear a woman to her associates, and can be regarded as feminine adornments. A truly devoted woman would wish to give the richness of her love to those deserving her concern, even if she knew that her love could not presently be returned. She would desire to serve without the recompense of visible appreciation. Another grace of womanhood would be a true concern for the welfare and happiness of those who walk adjoining paths on the way to eternal life, empathy and discernment extending in a most kind and gracious manner to those who are in most urgent need. These would be the children, who are helpless and dependent in the beginning of life; and the aged, who, again, cannot meet their physical and spiritual needs alone. Others in need would be those who are ill, whose bodies have been injured, or whose spirits have been impaired and broken. A further attribute of womanly grace and accomplishment is a mastery of words, especially a mastery of those words which never should be expressed. Sharp and bitter words are for permanent discarding—not for use. Wisdom and strength are the endowments of the woman who is able to think before she speaks, and then, sometimes not to speak at all, until a new and better subject has come up for discussion. Placing first things first is an accomplishment not easily acquired. The byways of life are often adorned with outward enticements. The nearest responsibility is sometimes dressed in drab apparel. The mere asking—what are the antecedents of this small measure of time over which | have some control, and what will be the progeny of this moment in a later year—the mere asking of this question is not easy, and its answer may be hard. Sometimes, even after we have truly measured and evaluated a responsibility, we may feel that we have a right to certain freedoms in view of our limited strength. It is then that there may be found some avenues of light and joy that, at first, had seemed not to be inherent in the precedence of time and effort. Our time, our lives are not ours alone. They are gifts from our Heavenly Father, as the words of the seventy-fourth Psalm have expressed for us: ''The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun. Thou has set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter." —V. P. C. 505 Wealtha S. Mendenhall Resigns From the General B It is with regret that the General Board announces the resignation of Wealtha S. Mendenhall from the General Board of Relief Society as of April 27, 1966. The resignation was tendered because of th necessity of prolonged absences from Salt Lake City of Sister Mendenhall as the business interests of Brother Mendenhall call him away from Utah. In the nine years that Sister Mendenhall has served on the General Board, she has given valued service 'in every assignment that has come to her. She has placed devotion to Relief Society work in the forefront of her life, and her personal desires second. She came to the Board with a rich experience of Relief Society work, and has served as chairman of the visiting teacher committee, on the literary contests committees, and presidencies department of General Conference, among others. Her last assignment was to a visiting teacher convention. The members of the General Board and Relief Society sisters throughout the world who are acquainted with Sister Mendenhall extend to her their love and gratitude for her years of service and best wishes for her future well-being and happiness., >, 7 Ls Elemental | Eileen Giberson I don't care what anybody says — I grew up in Western Oregon and I love the rain.: The sound of rain is beautiful. It makes me feel cozy, curled up in the chair by the fire or snuggled under the blankets in my bed. [I like to hear it tapping on the roof and at the windowpane. The sight of rain is refreshing, because the world becomes greener, and browner, and newer. And to he out in the rain just for a walk, with boots and raincoat and umbrella, ah, that is something very special — that is the feel of rain. How I love it! My children are growing up in Eastern Washington. The sun is their companion. It stays for the winter to brighten the tan, dry days. It coaxes t crocus into bloom in mid-February. It browns the children by May, and i July it sends them to the swimming pool in self-defense. When that sun co up in the cloudless blue sky, it means a@ good wash day; it means a good p — Out here in this flat desert land, the sun arises early and stays hot a ate. I love it, too. 506 They Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Ida A. Isaacson My two great-grandmothers knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Flora Clorinda Gleason Washburn, and Cathrine Hulet Winget. My great-grandmother, Flora Clorinda Gleason Washburn lived with the Prophet Joseph Smith's father's family for a time. She received her patriarchal blessing at the hands of John Smith, the Prophet's uncle. She lived for a time at Macedonia, Illinois, and was chosen president of the local Relief Society (the second president in the Church) and was set apart by the Prophet Joseph Smith. My great-grandmother, Cathrine Hulet Winget relates in her history that: In 1830, when I was but ten years of age, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Parley P. Pratt came to my father's house and held a meeting. The Prophet bore testimony to finding the plates that contained The Book of Mormon. AIthough being so young, I well remember that testimony. A short time after this the Prophet moved to a place called Hyrum, only seven miles from where my father lived. I used to attend meetings there and enjoyed very much hearing him talk. I heard him preach that Sunday after a mob had tarred and feathered, and beaten him and Sidney Rigdon so badly. I remember the time the mob threatened to shoot the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother, Hyrum Smith, but instead they put them in the Liberty Jail along with several other brethren; providing they promised to surrender their arms and leave the state the following spring. We left the State of Missouri in the spring of 1840 and moved to the State of Illinois. We settled thirty miles below Nauvoo. In the fall I attended the first conference ever held in Nauvoo. It was held out of doors. There was considerable sickness there that fall and many of the people attending the conference were pale and sickly. While there, I went to the house of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He had three Egyptian mummies in his room. I saw them standing against the wall. THE LEGACY Bertha A. Kleinman Our own is the Valley Beautiful impaled on the desert sod, A wasteland reclaimed and bountiful where the feet of Founders trod. Our own is the sun-drenched esplanade bequeathing its legacies Of fruited branches and Eden shade as long as we save the trees! In the pride of our cabled thoroughfares and the far-flung boulevard, Be proudful too of the miles of trees that dapple the dusty sward. Come out in the lanes where the children play in their sheltered rendezvous, Where the boughs that rock and swing and sway are the trees on the avenue. Nurture and save, let no orchard die, nor withered a thirsted grove, The Valleys can only be beautiful with trees for their treasure-trove. 507 Hazel K. Todd @ Faith, fair as the flowers of her pioneer valley, tripped with singing footsteps home, along the winding path to Grandma Leth's. The wild roses that had squatted at the side of the trail in a tangled bramble all sixteen of her eighteen years, tonight held out perfume-laden branches to her. The brook that had tumbled over the moss-slick pebbles since she could remember, now crooned soft love syllables as it slipped under the willow bridge. Even Herod, the pithy old owl, that she had named long ago, winked at her knowingly from his scraggly cottonwood tree. She fancied she heard him whisper in his cracked voice, "I know why you are so happy, Faith. It is because Joel asked you to marry him, and you are in love." Herod didn't say also, ""Grandma Leth will not be happy with you, because Joel has no bag of the gold she has been waiting for all these eighteen years. He is a pioneer boy, and if you marry him you will have to work and dig and slave, just as all the people of the valley have done since Brigham Young sent them 508 to settle here." Faith shut her ears so Herod could not say those words to her. "T will not tell Grandma," she said to herself, "but when Joel comes tomorrow, Grandma will see that he is big and strong and fine. And she will forget about the money." But she didn't know that Grandma Leth had not lived for more than seventy years without learning special things. She knew the shortness in her breath meant there was not much time left, and she knew the light of fulfillment in a girl's eyes when love had touched her. So Faith stood at the door of the cabin and gazed out into the bright morning. "Grandma," she said with her hands behind her against the mud-chinked wall, "the roses along the path were gay last night. I think they have never smelled so sweet." Grandma laid down the reed basket she was weaving to sell at the little store. Grandma was old and wrinkled and her back was bent from long years of toil. Her hands were hard and twisted into the shape of the reed braids they had woven. But there was a light in her eyes which told there was still youth in her heart, like the brightness of hope or the fire of determination. "Faith," she said, "what are you waiting for?" Faith dropped her eyes to the pattern on the hard dirt floor. "T thought, Grandma, that maybe today the one with the bag of money would come up the path and carry me away." Grandma Leth looked at Faith, from her flaxen hair to her bare, brown feet, as if she had never seen anyone half so lovely before. "Have you seen such a one?" she asked. Faith went to her, slowly, with faltering steps. "Grandma," she said, "why must the one for me have a bag of money? I have strong hands and I can work. You have taught me to work." "It is Joel,' Grandma said then, and Faith was sure it must be disappointment she heard in her voice. "It is Joel, and he has nothing to give you." Faith knelt on the dirt floor before her grandparent. '"'Oh, yes, Grandma, he has much to give. He has given me his love. And I would rather have it than all the bags of gold in the world." "Love! What is that?' Grandma snorted. "It is a silly thing! It cannot bring the things we have waited for these many years!" Faith laid her fair head in Grandma's lap and wept tears of anguish. What Faith couldn't see, was that Grandma's eyes, too, were wet. But she swept the tears away with her gnarled old hand. BAG OF GOLD "Come, child, we have things to do." Faith rose disconsolately to her slender height. '"What things, Grandma?" she asked. But there was no heart in her voice. "We have waited too long," Grandma said. "We will go and find him." Fait gazed at the old lady. All her life but two years when she was too little to know, she had lived in the valley. Once long ago, before her grandmother joined the Church she had lived in an eastern city. And Faith's own mother whom Faith couidn't remember, had lived in that same city in a wealthy home. And her mother had married Grandma Leth's son so that her own people had disowned her because of their religion. They had come across the plains when Faith was a tiny baby. And President Brigham Young had called them, with others, to settle the valley. But her father had been shot with an arrow by an Indian. And her grandfather had died of a fever. And her mother, who, somehow Faith knew, was homesick and sad, had died also. And they were all three buried under the great cottonwood tree beyond the creek, with the other dead of the valley. Never in Faith's own life had they been beyond the ridge of rugged mountains that encircled their valley. Where, in this faraway place could they find a man with a bag of gold! From the shelf over the bed Grandma took the box that held the shoes that had belonged to Faith's mother. Faith watched while Grandma lifted them from 509 JULY 1966 the yellowed paper wrapping. They were high laced shoes, with shiny tips on the toes that Grandma had kept shiny from the soot of the kettle that hung in the fireplace. Faith had never seen the people of the valley wear such shoes. "Here," Grandma said, ''you cannot go to find the rich one with no shoes." Always before Grandma had said, "Your feet are lovely. They need no shoes." Wonderingly, Faith put the shoes on and laced the long laces. Now Grandma took the brown clay pot that held the pieces of money from the basket sales over many years. She dumped its contents onto the bed and began heaping it into piles, counting each shiny piece. Faith gazed in astonishment at the money now being scooped into the old brown bag. THEN, in the corner, from the old trunk: that had been carried across the plains, came the silky dress and the velvet cape. Grandma pulled the cape around her shoulders and held out to Faith the elegant dress she had never been allowed to touch. "Your mother's," she said. Faith followed with a sinking heart, out the door and down the winding path. When Joel came they would be gone and the love she had so newly found would be lost. And then she saw him coming up the path, his long sinewy legs striding across the worn footprints, his shoulders straight and strong in the bright sunshine. "Where are you going?" he asked, with his eyes drinking in the loveliness of her. 510 Faith dropped her eyes to the path, for she could not bear to see his face when Grandma told him. "If someone had twenty bags of gold, he could not hold so much love for Faith as I," he said. "I am strong and willing to work." But Grandma was pulling her down the path and she could not wait. She turned and watched him standing there by the rosebushes, and she wished there was no gold in all the world. "T will be waiting for you," he called. 'Every day I will be waiting here in the path." "Where, Grandma, will we find the one with the bag of gold?" Faith asked obediently, for her grandmother was all she had, and she had given her everything she had known. "We will go to your mother's people," she said. "The years will have worn away the bitterness." Faith looked at her Grandmother wonderingly. Her mother's people were never mentioned to her. She knew very little of them. "But it is so far,'' she said, knowing only that it was in some far-off city across the weary plains, so remote to her as to be impenetrable. "There are ways now, if you have money," Grandma said. Her hands touched the lumps in the brown bag, 'Ways for those going east, those who do not wish to stay in the valleys of the mountains." "But, Grandma, truly you have never been sorry you came to the mountains. You have always said the mountains were an emblem of our religion—everlasting."' "Hush, child," Grandma said tersely. "There were promises made. " "What promises?" Faith asked. But the sharp determined clicking of Grandma's walking stick on the rocks of the trail were her only answer. Faith followed obediently, oblivious of the slick moss of the rocks or the sweet perfumery of the roses. She awakened to her new surroundings with a quick sharp pang of uneasiness she had never before known. The tiny window in the cabin where the sun rays splashed onto her patchwork quilt, had suddenly grown to a wide, deep window covered with heavy draperies of unknown richness. Her eyes traveled from the curtained window that hid the sunshine up the flowered wallpaper and across the room to the walnut dresser and washstand with its big white pitcher and bowl. And then she remembered. SHE remembered, vividly, last night coming with her grandma in the coach with the fine horses, to the strange tall house in the city. She remembered being ushered into the great house by a man whom the woman afterward called Jones. She remembered standing before the tall, sedate lady, who, her grandma said was the mother of that far-away misty mother whom she had _ never known. "This forsaken creature, Ruth's child!" the new grandmother had said, eyeing her critically. Faith had suddenly clung to Grandma Leth and said, "Please, Grandma, let's go home!"' But Grandma Leth had pushed her forward, and the strange BAG OF GOLD grandmother had laid her hand falteringly on her shoulder and looked earnestly into her face. And, suddenly, there had been tears in her eyes that she had wiped away with a lace handkerchief. Then there had been sharp words and questions and answers, explanations and crying and tense pauses. Grandma Leth had explained that Faith's mother was dead and buried back in the valley under the cottonwood tree, and that her father was dead there, too; that she still believed in her strange religion which she had taught to Faith. Grandma Leth held Faith's hand and said, "She is Ruth's child. Ruth could never quite give up all this." Her eyes swept over the luxurious room, "She didn't want to come back. But she couldn't give it up. I promised her I would bring Faith here before she married. I have taught her that the one she marries must have a bag of gold, so there will be no regrets, no sadness, no undecided questions." The tall grandmother pulled herself up regally and gazed at Grandma Leth with a strange excitement. "You have been wise," she said. Then her eyes grew suddenly bright. "I will take her away from you." She came a step closer, and it seemed she looked scornfully at the withered frame of old Grandma Leth. "For I have a bag of gold, you know." So Grandma Leth had gone away. Faith had run to her and clung to her, but Grandma had loosened her hands with her own twisted fingers, and turned away. "But, Grandma," Faith wept, "when will I see you again?" Grandma's old eyes were full 511 JULY 1966 of fire. 'When you are sure of the bag of gold," she said. The sagging shoulders straightened in the velvet cape, and Grandma Leth melted away into the frightening mist of strangeness. Then, as Faith remembered, she looked 'up at the silk ruffled canopy over her bed. She slid her hand hesitatingly along the satiny quilt, and touched with awe the great fluffy pillow. Presently she slid her legs carefully over the edge of the high bed onto the soft carpet. Gone were her mother's shoes and silky dress. But there were strange new clothes. She cried silently inside as she fitted the new things to her slender body. THEN the new grandmother was sitting in the ruffled pink chair and talking softly and brightly. "This was your mother's room, Faith," she said, her eyes seeming to miss no tiny spot of Faith. "She grew up from a little girl here until—until she went away and left me for a boy with a new and hated religion." Faith listened dutifully while all inside her ached with homesickness. "It can be your room now," the grandmother said, leaning forward breathlessly. '"'All the things you want can be yours." And Faith knew not what to say, so she said nothing. There were beautiful dresses, hats and shoes, umbrellas and fans.. There were parties and operas and theaters. There were cousins and aunts and 'uncles and new friends. And there was a handsome boy named James. Grandma brought his family for dinner one day when Faith had 512 learned more about the new life. They were rich and influential and very proper folks, the father, his wife, a sister, and James. She liked James. He had a quick, gay smile, and he could laugh at her strange mannerisms and her country ways. After dinner the two walked slowly all about the garden. When they came to the bench under the chestnut tree, he sat down and pulled her down beside him. "Do you have a bag of gold?" she asked seriously. He looked at her quizzically and laughed. 'You are a mercenary little thing," he said, and pinched the end of her nose playfully. But more seriously, he added, "I guess you could say I have a bag of gold for the right person." After that James came to the house often. And Faith smiled at him brightly, for he was entertaining, and she liked him. And her grandmother smiled, too, assuredly. There were theaters and dances and rides in coaches in the park. Once James asked her to dance in the place where they were dining. She was filled with homesickness, floating with him over the floor. '"'Where," he asked, looking at her keenly, "in your Indian country, did you learn to dance like that?" "With Joel at all the Church dances," she said. "Who is Joel?" he asked with quick interest. "He is the one who has no bag of gold," she said, looking away from him, for there were tears in her eyes. He was quiet after that. They danced silently around the floor. He stopped by the big window filled with starry sky. He held her hand quietly and a smile ever so slight touched his lips, as he looked into her solemn face. "I think," he said, "'you found your bag of gold long before I found you." But her thoughts were too far away to understand what he was saying. And then, when she had said good night and found her grandmother waiting for her, she suddenly remembered his words and she stopped to wonder at them. "My dear," her grandmother said, coming to meet her, "you look lovely. Did James say something especially nice tonight?' Her grandmother's eyes were bright with anticipation, and she put her arm affectionately around Faith's shoulder. Faith looked questioningly into her grandmother's glad face. ''He said," she answered thoughtfully, "he said I had already found the bag of gold before he found me." "Before he found you?" Her grandmother's voice trailed off into silence. She stood silent a time, and then she said, with over-gaiety in her voice, as if to assure herself, "But you are happy here, Faith. You do like James, don't you?" "Oh, yes, yes, Grandmother. Only." "Only what?" The grandmother stood waiting as if she had always known since Faith had come to her, that it must end this way, but she must still cling to hope. "Only—I—I—I want to go home." Her eyes filled with tears. BAG OF GOLD "IT want my Grandma Leth. I want the little church house and the saints of the valley, and the meadow grass, and the graves under the cottonwood tree. I want my cabin with the dirt floor and the mud-chinked walls. And I want...." She lowered her eyes to hide the tears. "I want Joel, who has no bag of gold, but who is willing to work and love and worship with me." She stood crying softly while her tall grandmother slowly but steadily came forward and put her arms around her lovingly. "Yes, my darling,'"' she said. She stepped to the door and called Jones. For a time she talked to him. And then she came back to Faith. "Your grandma will be here soon," she said. "But where....?" "She has been waiting," she said simply. A soft sigh like a whisper came from her lips. "You will leave me just as your mother left me. Only you will go with my blessing, just as your mother should have gone. Perhaps, then, she would not have been uncertain." She turned to the window and pulled aside the curtain and stared into the starry night. "Perhaps," she said thoughtfully, "perhaps there could be a bag of gold for me out there, too, in your valley." Faith turned to the grandmother, then, with new recognition shining in her eyes. ''Oh, yes, Grandmother. Now I know why Grandma Leth brought me here. It was so I would know for sure. Don't you see? Joel is waiting there on the path with my bag of gold. The valley is filled with gold—enough for all!" 513 REVERIE IN MEADOW GRASS Peggy Tangren This meadow is a world within a world Of little things that crawl and creep in shade Of leaf and stone. Of wings not yet unfurled Laid camouflaged against the tall green blade. The draglines of the ant have mapped their land For keeping life, or bringing back the dead Around a lake the size of my cupped hand, And under girders strung of spider thread. Deep in this meadow grass are town and shire Built to the level of an insect's eye. Hunger is here, frustration, and desire; And over them the stems rise strong and high, Their forest, as my forest is to me, Dwarfing them as redwoods dwarf us all. What fearsome moving monster must | be— |, who am a hundred grass blades tall. Will go softly through the meadow grass Breathing a benediction as | pass. > the Home inside and out @ The Dickson family sat in a circle on their living room rug. They were gathered together for a family council to decide where they should spend their family vacation. For days Father had collected maps, pamphlets, and advertisements on summer resorts. Sally, twelve years old, had gathered information on the National Parks. Nearly every student in her class, she argued, had seen at least two National Parks. Sally was determined to see two (preferably three) famous parks this summer. Billy, age nine, had definitely decided the family should visit a Dude Ranch in the high Tetons. A cowboy's life for him, with boots, saddle, and spurs! Dotty, age four, had investigated nothing. She demanded that they stay on the West Coast and go to the beach as usual. As the children disputed each other's wishes, Father shifted his position, but said nothing. Mother listened quietly, also, considering every angle. Either she nodded her head in agreement, or shook it in doubt. However, the children had a shaky feeling from past experiences that, even though she was quiet she was biding her time. They were correct. All the while she had been listening she had hugged her old black photograph album in her arms. It was the album the children enjoyed looking at because of its amusing pictures of their Mother's childhood. The moment the debate subsided, Mother cunningly opened the album and spoke. "I think you all have perfectly wonderful ideas. Now I have a wish a most ideal spot for a two weeks' vacation. "It would take us back to the Middle West, to my girlhood home... Back to the woods where my family camped each summer beside a winding river. We could camp in tents, cook over a campfire, and put up hammocks. You children could explore the woods, fish, climb the trees, and, perhaps, build a small flatboat, or build a tree house. Father could catch up on his reading, fish, and just plain rest!" Father looked a bit dumbfounded, but said nothing. "Oh, Mother," sighed Sally, 515 JULY 1966 'it sounds creepy. I'd die if I had to spend two weeks in those old woods. What would I do just walk around, looking at the birds, and butterflies...?" "In fact, yes. That is what I thought you could do," answered Mother. "Oh, joy," smirked Billy. "Well err ah,' muttered Dotty, not quite getting the idea. "Please," said Father, "let's just take a look at that book." They all stood around Mother as she turned the worn pages of her album to the camping pictures, snapped during her family's camping vacation. Their five heads crowded together, trying to get a better view of the snapshots. "What are those things hanging on the tree limbs there beside the tent?" Father asked, looking closely at the snapshot on the upper left. "Oh, those were my little brother Tod's clothes,' Mother chuckled, remembering. ''He fell into the river...."' She could hardly tell it for giggling... "With his clothes on. My mother had to pull him out, pull off his clothes and hang them up there on the limb to dry. He had to stay inside the tent until his clothes dried." It must have been funny, the family decided, for Mother's laugh went right on up the scale. "Didn't he have any dry clothes?" Dotty asked, looking concerned. Mother laughed even harder now. "No. As I remember, he had fallen in the day before. There weren't any dry clothes." "Mom," asked Sally, studying the picture at the extreme left, 516 "who is the boy standing beside the tent flap, the one with the bandaged toe?" "That," explained Mother between giggles, "is your Uncle John's friend, Dave. He stuck his toe too close to a nasty turtle. We thought that toe would never stop bleeding." Mother's laugh faltered at this point and died down. "Oh, how exciting,' commented Billy, coming to attention. "Who is the girl standing in front of the tree?' Father asked. "Looks as if she had measles." Mother bent closer and examined the picture. "Oh, that's my cousin Louise no those were not measles."' She concentrated a moment longer. "I know now. Those were mosquito bites. The mosquitoes simply ate her up. She does look as if she had measles, though, doesn't she?" "What in the world was all that stuff piled behind the tents in this corner picture?" Father asked, baffled. "1'd forgotten about that," Mother said. 'There had been a terrific electrical storm the night before. Sometime after midnight, we moved out of those tents fast! We had to pull the tents down and lug them to the cars before the wind tore them apart. You should have seen us kids scrambling for the inside of those touring cars, while the thunder and lightning popped and crackled around us."' Mother's laugh had _ stopped suddenly, like an old Model T going uphill. "I hated those storms," she said, shuddering. "You didn't answer my ques- tion,'"' Father reminded her. "Oh, yes, that stuff piled behind the tents. Those were twigs and branches we had to clear away before we could pitch tents the next morning: Were we hungry before we had breakfast that morning!"' "And why all the sacks and buckets hanging from the tree?" Sally asked, suddenly interested. "Mmmmm ants. They got into the food so badly my Mother had to hang the food in the trees. When they reached the food up there we had to carry it out to the little raft in the middle of the river. I remember we moved that food three or four times a day." "That sounds like fun," shouted Sally. "Let's go there,' chimed in Billy. ""We could live like Robinson Crusoe. I'd like to see one of those electrical storms. I'd climb right up to the top of one of those high trees and watch the light..." "Uh huh," Mother interrupted, looking suspiciously at Billy. "I bet you would!" "I wouldn't mind falling into the water," added Dotty, "be just like T. V." Mother eyed her dubiously. The corner of Father's mouth twitched as he held back a smile. "We could make a raft like Huckleberry Finn," said Sally, eagerly. VACATION PLANS "Now, just a minute, children," Mother added quickly, "I think I may have been a little hasty. Let's look at those folders your father brought home. Let's study the maps." Everyone rocked backwards, laughing—not at Mother, but with her. Even Dotty got the idea and stood up scratching her legs. "IT simply detest mosquitoes," she hissed through the gap in her front teeth. "You all understand," Mother said, "it was fun then. But I doubt if I could cope with the situations in the way my Mother did. I promise I won't get this old album out again." She leaned back and placed it upon the small table. ''Now, what were you saying about summer resorts?" '""Something with modern facilities?" Father asked, teasing. "Yes, something like that," Mother answered sheepishly. Resuming their circle, they tried to stop laughing. When they finally — settled down, Father said, "What we'll promise to do if we are close, is to take your Mother back to her favorite childhood camping spot for just one day, for a real oldfashioned family picnic." With squeals and '"hurrahs" they all agreed. ERRATUM — OMISSIONS ON MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 Through an oversight, the record of Juab Stake, Utah, was not listed on the Magazine Honor Roll published in the May 1966 Magazine. The record of Juab Stake was outstanding, with all of the wards achieving 100 per cent or over in Magazine subscriptions. Glendale Stake, California, was aiso omitted from the list of stakes in which all the wards achieved 100 per cent or over. East Los Angeles, with 128 per cent, was one of the ten stakes achieving: the highest percentages. 517 Passing Sunlight Ethel Hopper "This is my busy day," I said aloud to myself, as I hurried about my morning work. I was wondering how I was going to accomplish all the one hundred and one things I had planned to do this bright spring day. There were serious thoughts in my mind that morning; a neighbor, very dear to me, was ill. I had told her daughter, who was taking care of her, to let me know if there was anything I could do for her, and I would be right there. I lived only two blocks away. I remember saying, "And I mean anything." Just as I switched on the washing machine I heard the phone ring. I ran up the steps from the laundry. Sure enough, it was the daughter of my _ sick friend. "Come over," she said, "'just as soon as you can." I did not wait for any explanation, just crashed down the receiver and dashed out of the door, never even thinking to get the car. To drive would have saved time and my breath, which was nearly gone from the flight up the basement steps. I ran all the way, but I am none too good at running, as I have a trick knee. When I hurry, I seem to be making much activity and not much advance. I r @ ] ao oe, ~~ oe gi did my best, however, and Marie looked surprised when I arrived so suddenly in the middle of the front room. "Oh! There you are," she said, "T am so glad you arrived before the sunshine passed from the branch of the apple blossoms that mother can see from her window. Each blossom shines with dew, and it looks like a Japanese print. Mother mentioned how she wished you could see it before the sun passes." I collapsed on the end of the bed, hardly able to _ breathe. Marie suddenly realized I had taken the phone call as an emergency. "Oh! How sorry I am," Marie cried, "I am sure you would like to slay me. Mother was better this morning, and I impulsively ~ called you to share the sunlight on the apple blossoms." All at once things began to fall into their proper places. Why was I hurrying about at such a pace? This moment of beauty and companionship was important. I looked out of the window and said, "'No, Marie, I feel I have been honored to know I have friends who would think of me when the sun is shining on apple blossoms."' ¢ ~amrlhlac Ivy Houtz Woolley Light your tapers and let them burn until there is a little well around the wick, take a salt shaker and sprinkle salt over the flame. It will fall into the little well, and lo, no more drips. Lay the bowl of a spoon over the flame as a snuffer, flame out, no smoke, no smell. 518 4 German Holiday Buffet aus a Part II Carla Sansom In looking at my salad list, in preparing my German holiday buffet, I find five salads which I can prepare the day before. They are: string bean; red beet-herring; pineapple-cheese with lime jello; fresh cranberry relish; and orange cream salad. The cucumber salad, and the shrimp salad I will prepare shortly before my guests arrive. STRING BEAN SALAD 2 cans string beans 1%, c. Oil 2 green onions, chopped 3 tbsp. Vinegar 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 clove garlic (cut in half) pepper, paprika, onion salt Pour water off beans and put beans in a bowl. Sprinkle salt on beans and green onions. Let sit. Meanwhile soak garlic clove in oil and add vinegar and lemon juice. Pour over beans. Add pepper, paprika, and onion salt to taste. Toss well. Keep in refrigerator. RED BEET-HERRING SALAD 1 can small whole pickled beets 1 tbsp. White vinegar (1 Ib.) 14, tsp. Salt 2 or 3 herring filets coarse ground pepper 1 large dill pickle 1 tsp. Sugar 2 medium-sized onions 2 to 3 tbsp. Mayonnaise 1 large apple, diced 1, c. Sour cream 2 hard-boiled eggs Separate beets from juice. Dice beets, herring filets, pickle, onions, apple, eggs. Turn into serving bowl. Add vinegar, salt, pepper, and sugar. Toss. Turn mayonnaise and sour cream over ingredients and toss well. Taste. (You might wish to add a few drops of lemon juice, a dash of sugar, or two or three tbsp. Of whipped cream.) Chill. PINEAPPLE-CHEESE SALAD WITH LIME JELLO 1 pkg. Lime jello 14, Ib. Medium nippy cheese, 1 can crushed pineapple shredded You can double this amount. Prepare jello as directed. Mix crushed pineapple with cheese. Mix with jello, and pour into mold. FRESH CRANBERRY RELISH 1 |b. Fresh cranberries 1 c. Sugar 2 medium-sized oranges Wash and drain cranberries. Put through a grinder. Cut oranges in half, remove seeds, and put through grinder, with peel. Turn into serving bowl. Add sugar and mix. Chill. This relish can be kept in refrigerator for months. Aging improves the flavor. 519 JULY 1966 ORANGE CREAM SALAD 4 egg yolks 4 egg whites, beaten 14 c. Sugar 1 pt. Whipping cream 12 tbsp. Orange juice 1 can mandarin orange segments 4 tbsp. Lemon juice orange rind 3 envelopes plain gelatine Cream egg yolks with sugar. Add juices. Prepare gelatine as directed. Mix with above mentioned ingredients. Beat egg whites and whipping cream. Fold into mixture. Pour in bowl and garnish with mandarin orange segments. Sprinkle with orange rind. Chill. CUCUMBER SALAD 2 medium-sized tucumbers, peeled 4 slices fried bacon, crumbled and sliced pepper as desired 4 tbsp. Vinegar ll4 tbsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Sugar 2-3 green onions, chopped 14 c. Parsley, chopped Peel and slice cucumbers. Add other ingredients. Mix and chill. SHRIMP SALAD Prepare a tossed salad, according to your favorite vegetable mixture. Add two cans of shrimp. (Rinse shrimp and drain before adding to salad.) Toss. Garnish with lemon slices. Dressing 1 pt. Chili sauce 1 tsp. Sugar 2 boiled eggs, chopped 1 tsp. Horseradish lf, pt. Sour cream dash of pepper 1/4, Cc. Mayonnaise dash of salt Mix and chill. Serve with salad. On the morning of the buffet | will make the cakes. | am going to have German marble kuchen, cheese cake, and butterkuchen. GERMAN MARBLE KUCHEN 3 c. Sifted flour 3 unbeaten eggs 2 tsp. Double-acting baking 1 c. Milk powder 114 tsp. Vanilla 14, tsp. Salt 34, c. Chocolate syrup 1 c. Butter or margarine 14 tsp. Soda 2 c. Sugar Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Cream butter thoroughly; gradually add sugar, creaming until light and fluffy. Blend in eggs, one at a time, beating well after each. Combine milk and vanilla. Add alternately with dry ingredients. Blend thoroughly after each addition. Pour 24 of batter into 10-inch tube pan, greased on the bottom. Blend into remaining batter the chocolate syrup, and soda. Pour chocolate batter over white batter. Do not mix. Bake in moderate oven (350° F.) 45 minutes. Place a sheet of foil on top of pan and bake 20 to 25 minutes longer. Cool completely in pan. 520 CHEESE CAKE 114 c. Graham cracker crumbs 14 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Butter 2 8-0z. Pkgs. Cream cheese 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 14, tsp. Lemon juice 14, c. Sugar 4 eggs, separated 2 tbsp. Flour 1 c. Cream Blend the crumbs with the butter and 2 tbsp. Sugar; press into the bottom of a 9-inch spring pan. Blend the 14 c. Sugar with the flour, salt, and cream cheese, softened at room temperature. Add vanilla and lemon juice. Add the egg yolks, one at a time, mixing well after each yolk is added. Add cream and blend thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, and pour the mixture on the top of the crumbs. Bake in slow oven, 325°, for 1 hour, or until ''set'' in the center. Cool before removing the ring of the pan. Can be topped with blueberry or cherry pie filling. Garnish with whipped cream. BUTTERKUCHEN 1 c. Milk 2 eggs 14, c. Sugar 4 c. Unsifted flour 1 tsp. Salt 1 stick butter (14 Ib.) 1 stick butter (14 Ib.) 14, c. Sugar and cinnamon mix 14 c. Warm water 1 c. Chopped walnuts 2 pkgs. Dry yeast Scald milk; stir in sugar, salt, and butter; cool to lukewarm. Measure warm water into large warm bowl. Sprinkle in yeast; stir until dissolved. Stir in lukewarm milk mixture, eggs, and half the flour; beat until smooth. Stir in remaining flour to make stiff batter. Cover and let rise in warm place 45 minutes. Punch down, and spread dough in well-greased 18-inch square pan or one of similar size. Let rise until doubled in bulk. Dot with remaining stick of butter; sprinkle with cinnamon-sugar mixture and nuts. Bake in moderate oven, 375°, for about 20 to 25 minutes. Remove from oven and frost with the following lemon icing: Lemon Icing 1. C. Powdered sugar 3 tsp. Lemon juice For meat I will serve a leg of pork which I roast in the oven at 325°F. 30 to 45 minutes per pound. Half an hour before meat is done baste with a mixture consisting of: 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Marjoram 14, tsp. Pepper 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 2 tbsp. Chopped onions This mixture gives pork a wonderful flavor. | have found that when guests are coming to my house during the holidays, they are tired of ham and turkey. | will also serve a sirloin tip roast, and some sliced Italian salami. For relishes! Will serve cherry tomatoes, olives, and carrot and celery sticks. The celery sticks | will top with cream cheese, spiced with onion salt, pepper, paprika, and a dash of horseradish salt. | will also have a variety of pickles, homemade chili sauce, apple jelly, and red and black currant jelly. For drinks, we will have hot elderberry juice with lemon slices. (I pick the elderberries in the fall in the mountains, and put them up like grape juice.) | will get out my Irish linen, my silver and crystal, and my white china plates. * §21 alee My alleen Sang Genevieve Van Wagenen Mother was no singer. In fact, she had so little faith in her ability that she never even tried out for the ward choir. But the songs mother sang in our home had a lasting effect upon my life—an effect for good. Mother sang at her work, whether ironing, doing dishes, dusting, cooking, or mending. She sang as she rocked her infants to sleep. It was not unusual, when coming in from play, to see mother sitting in a rocker, singing a lullaby to her drowsy babe. She never interrupted her singing, or stopped her rocking to make inquiries or give orders. Instead, she continued singing, composing her own words to fit the tune, as she sang along. She would sing words of instruction or counsel which she wished us to carry out, while she was occupied. One of mother's favorite hymns was "I Need Thee Every Hour." To this tune, and from her rocker, she could operate her home, if need be, sort of like remote control. Her melodic instructions would go something like this: "I'm getting the baby to sleep, so please don't disturb. Go wash your face and hands and get a clean dress on. As soon as I lay the baby down, I will comb your hair. I want you to go to the store for me. Hurry fast, I want to do some baking before dinner." Mother was a versatile melodizer. Other mothers in our neighborhood did not operate on this system. But with mother, it was efficiency plus. Through this system, she answered our questions, settled our childish disputes, supervised tidying the home, and organized her household, all while singing a lullaby. As children, our favorite songs were the story-telling variety that mother learned in young womanhood. Songs like, "After The Ball,' "The Letter Edged in Black," "Ill Take You Home Again, Kathleen," etc. Mother briefed us in on the background of the song, then she would sing it for us. We listened intently. We were touched by the drama of life. She gave songs more than a melody—she gave them a soul. The tears rolled down our cheeks as we saw the tragedy and felt the remorse caused by the misunderstanding of the two young lovers, in "After the Ball.'"' We shed tears of sympathy, as we heard the pleading words of a brokenhearted and repentant father, in "The Letter Edged in Black," as he said: "(Come home, my boy, your poor old Father wants you. Come home, my boy, your Mother dear is dead. Oh, your Mother's words, the last she ever uttered, were, "Tell my boy I want him to come back!' Oh, my eyes are blurred, my poor old heart is breaking, while I'm writing you this Letter Edged in Black." We drank deeply of the son's grief, too, on this loneliest of days, as he read: "Forgive the angry words 'twere spoken, you know I never meant them, don't you, Jack? Oh, the angels bear me witness I am asking your forgiveness in this Letter Edged in Black." Our eyes were flooded with tears. We tried to check the flow, first with blinks and sniffs and chubby fists that see-sawed back and forth. Then we resorted to more absorbent sleeves or skirts. We wouldn't think of interrupting mother's singing to go and get a handkerchief—we didn't want to miss a word of it. (I smile now, as I look back on this tender scene.) When the song ended, we begged: "Sing it again! Sing it again!" "No," said mother, "you'll only cry. I don't want to make you cry." "Please, Mother," we coaxed. "Sing it again!" So mother would sing it again. The tears streamed just as freely, but it was wonderful! There was something strengthening, refreshing, rejuvenating about it all, like refreshing rain. As the songs flowed on, we children identified ourselves with each character. We felt understood. We sympathized. We discovered values. We learned charity. We grew. 522 € v, Peery SS oe oe Myrtle Kiddie Seely, Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, applies her unusual artistic capabilities in many fields of design and craftsmanship. Being left-handed has seemed to be no deterrent to her accomplishments. She has crocheted hundreds of doilies and tablecloths, does huck weaving, has mastered many intricate embroidery stitches, and she makes many kinds of colorful and decorative rugs. In a single winter she did most of the work on thirty quilts. Her most recently developed hobby is oil painting, an art medium in which she can utilize to great advantage her discerning sense of color and her authentic feeling for composition. Canadian flowers, fields, and magnificent mountains grace her canvases, and she particularly enjoys painting the reflections of mountian peaks upon the quiet lake waters. She is an expert gardener, and her lovely roses and houseplants are much admired. She does her own home decorating, both paper hanging and painting. In Relief Society, she has been a visiting teacher since the age of seventeen, except during the intervals when she served as chorister, and later as first counselor. From 1938 to 1941 she served as president of Stirling Ward Relief Society. At present she is again a visiting teacher. She has a wide circle of appreciative and devoted friends. She has seven living children, twenty-five grandchildren, and sixteen great-grandchildren. On March 15th, 1966, Sister Seely celebrated her seventy-sixth birthday, and her friends and family reminisced and rejoiced with her, looking back over many years of devotion and accomplishment. 523 Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter 7 (conclusion) ™@ Lance came home from Sunday School and gave Jennie a slip of paper. "You give it," he said hotly. Jennie picked up the paper, "a 214 minute talk. 'What are the rewards of righteousness? ' " She put the paper down and listened to Lance's angry feet storm up the stairs. She catalogued the sounds overhead. When she reasoned that he had changed into the relaxing jeans and knit shirt, 524 she mounted the stairs after him and knocked at his door. He opened it grudgingly. His face was closed against her. "I can't do that subject," he said. Jennie came into his room and straightened the bed. ''Why not?" He looked at her in surprise. '"'What rewards?" he asked. ''Just tell me that one thing, what rewards do good people get?" She studied him in pride and regret. He was growing up much too fast, mentally and physically. He's going to be like Rex, she thought, a thinker, a demander of reasons. "What rewards do the bad ones get?" she asked. He shook his head. "You're going to tell me jails all right. There are jails and jails!" He stuffed change into his pocket. "What difference between a cell in a prison for a robber, and the cell Mrs. Marchang lives in, with that sickness she has that won't let her off her bed?" Jennie was silent. The boy was demanding of her explanations that had harassed the minds of philosophers and sages since the world began. '"'She's been good all her life," he prodded. "'What's the difference between being in jail and being in that horrible. Nursing home you took me to, where old Mr. Penrose gropes around?" "But it's different." "How different?" He glared at her. "I've finally figured it out," he said, his freckles shining above the intensity of his face, "nobody gets any rewards but nobody. Just look around you." Jennie sank down on his bed. She thought, I haven't done anything to deserve the rewards of this family of mine, this new and lovely house, yet here I am, surrounded by beauty. She said slowly, "I think the reason we can't see the difference between one kind of jail and another, is because we can't see inside the person. Now, when I visit Mrs. Marchang, I feel as if I had been in another climate, or like the time we went to Hawaii. It was like another world, wasn't it?" "Yes," said Lance, reluctantly. "With Mrs. Marchang, I feel as though I had been in a garden place, filled with birds and other singing things." He stopped still. "You do? Honest?"' "Ves," Jennie said, "I honestly do. I come away inspired, filled with ideas to think about, determined to be braver and better." She stroked his hair. "We're so dimensional, Lance. We're doors, to ourselves, and the doors open to such different countries.'' She paused, "Once, I went to read to someone in the County Hospital.... It was dreadful to be with that person. It was as if I looked in a pit with snakes writhing about." Lance sat down beside her. "Once I went over to Mrs. Marchang's, with some stuff you sent over. She told me about the stars. She really knows where they are. On summer nights, her husband wheels her out, and she studies them through that old telescope of hers...."' He considered, '"'Yeah, we can cross her off our list, she's got more horizons than astronauts, I bet." Jennie sighed. She hoped they were making headway. But she felt beyond her depth. "What about Mr. Penrose?" WHEAT FOR THE WISE "What about him?" asked. "Well, think about a man who has been so great, I mean really great, a Governor and all. He told me once he didn't have anything bad happen to him, until he lost his son... And then he had to be put in the home all his money was gone and his children were gone, too. All his life good things and then, powie nothing but zero." Jennie WENNIE said slowly. "We all have sticky places to cross some of them come early... Some come now and then, some come all at once, when we're old and least able to cope with them. But we can't see what is beyond the hill for Mr. Penrose, can we?" "Like what?" he asked suspiciously. "Like heaven... Like reunion with his wife and son... Like the putting away of the heavy coat of his years and putting on the shining stuff of spirit. We can't see that. We grope... Like someone watching icebergs and seeing only edges above the water."' "All right," said Lance, "T'll do the speech." He hesitated. "Will Dad come?" "Sure, he'll come. He couldn't stay away from an occasion like mat. Lance went out whistling. Jennie went back to the kitchen. She looked in the mirror to see if the conversation had aged her as much as she felt it had, but the mirror gave her back only the brightness of her freshly done hair and the pinkness of the new lipstick, "Iceberg!" she hissed. She told Rex about the conversation. 525 JULY 1966 He sat on the high stool and sharpened the kitchen knives. The June day flooded the kitchen with light and heat. To Jennie's surprise, Rex was definite on the subject of rewards. "Lance is confusing rewards with the natural suffering to which man is heir, or the natural successes. Of course, one gets rewards if he does what is right. The student who sweats it out, gets better marks than the student who plays and _ procrastinates; the diligent business man fares better than the sloven. But, catastrophes happen to the alert student as well as to the lazy one, accidents befall the canny business man; tragedy overtakes the virtuous. These are the hazards of life. We cannot avoid tragedy by being good, nor danger by being wise." Jennie looked at him with awe. "Tell Lance that," she urged. But Rex did not move. "Some day not yet. And anyway, it is not in words but by power."' Jennie looked at him, startled. "What on earth?" "I'm quoting," he said, "'something that keeps sticking in my mind like a tall flagpole. When I go to see what is flying on it the whole thing disappears." The doorbell rang, Rex went to answer it. He came back to tell her, "I think they have a new job for you." "Is it the bishop?" "Tt is indeed," said Rex. The new job was the designing of a float for the Twenty-fourth of July parade. Jennie could not believe her ears. "A float! Good heavens! I can't even design a dress. I'm completely untalented in that 526 line."' The bishop looked at her questioningly. "I have faith in you. You had the faith to make a wonderful thing of the Trekker class. You were blessed to create a fine road show, one that gave pleasure to many. What makes you think you will be left alone on this?" "But a float..." Jennie. The bishop stood up. "'All you have to do is design one. We'll do the rest. You draw the picture. The theme ' he fished for the paper, "the theme for our float is the sego lily." quavered Hr went away. Jennie stood watching him drive down the street. She looked at the paper he had left in her hand. How on earth had she ever had the courage to assent? Rex came over to stand by her. "Scared?" "You are so right, I'm scared." "You mean you flinch at such a little thing as designing a float to be seen by... Let's say fifty thousand people?" '".. And a prize," said Jennie shortly. ''Don't forget the prize." Rex hugged her. "'T'll help you, if you would like me to, and [ll keep you supplied with aspirins." Jennie did not find the idea for the float easily. She was driven to prayer and then to fasting. She woke up at three one morning and punched Rex awake. "Tt's absolutely stunning," she assured him. He looked owlishly at her. "May I ask what is?" "The float. I just saw it." He gave her a withering look and went back to sleep. Jennie laughed at her own absurdity, but she could not sleep for visualizing the float. It had, in her mind, one large, beautifully made sego lily. In the calyx stood Ronda, the prettiest girl in the ward. Ronda wore white satin and long gloves and carried a sheaf of the blossoms. Around and down from the great flower was a manmade hill, green and covered with sage. At the foot of the hill, knelt the older women in_ pioneer clothes, depicting the digging of the sego-lily roots in the time of famine. Jennie hugged herself in the darkness. Then, frustrated beyond endurance at having to keep it to herself, she rose and went into Sabra's room and woke her. Sasra was enchanted, "I can just see it. Oh, Mother, it's going to be the very, very best." She paused, "Would there be room on the float for a dancer?" Jennie considered. Why not? What more lovely than a girl dancing on the hill. So it was decided. Her part of the creation of the float was mostly done. It was not hard to draw the design. Rex helped with that. They chose the colors together, the white, maroon, and gold of the flower, the sage green of the hill, and the maroon of the pioneers. Sabra was to wear yellow. The bringing into actuality of her idea was one of the most exciting things Jennie had ever experienced. Rex and his friends brought into being the paper maché flower. It was painted a silky white with the soft yellow and maroon heart in lovely contrast. The hillside was made of WHEAT FOR THE WISE green tissue paper, by the hands of the Relief Society, and the Boy Scouts brought down the sagebrush from a hike organized for that express purpose. On the Twenty-fourth of July, Jennie awoke at four-thirty. She lay still in the faint dawn, trying to reason the unease that crept through her. It was a foreboding she could not dissolve. I suppose we're not going to be the winner, she thought. She brushed the thought aside. Negative thinking! She rose and went downstairs. She could not rid herself of the dark misgivings. She bathed and read the paper and _ prepared breakfast and woke her family early. One look at Sabra made her lips tighten. "Fever!" She reached for Sabra's forehead. "I can see it." Sabra wrenched away. "I feel wonderful. I had a real hot bath this morning." "Get me the thermometer," Jennie commanded. But then something happened. Johnny cried, and Lora fell down the stairs. The thermometer was forgotten. The morning rushed by. Friends were coming back with them, after the parade, for a buffet lunch. There was a children's party, at five, for Lora. The moments slipped by and then it was time to help Sabra into her costume and hurry to the float. Sabra insisted on dressing herself. "T can do it alone."' So Jennie hurried along to get herself and Johnny and. Lora ready and, at last, to hurry the family to the car. Rex was already there, honking impatiently. "We're late!"' he said, "'there's no one to take Sabra's place. 527 JULY 1966 What are they going to do?" ''We'll get there!" Jennie said, "don't panic.' She looked at her daughter. "Remember, you're to do only the slow turns, and the arm movements, nothing else." Sabra smiled: "Of course, I'll remember." The float looked even more im- - posing in the bright morning light. The pioneer mothers were bustling about tying their bonnets and making last-minute alterations on their aprons. The bishop was settling an untied sagebrush. The beautiful Ronda was worrying about getting sunburned. Rex was enthusiastic. "It's just too spectacular! If it doesn't win, I'll eat my hat." "Remember the Road Show?" Jennie demanded. "Yes," said Rex, "but this is different. I've already seen some of the floats. In fact, look around you." | _ It was time. Ronda climbed to her place. Someone handed her the cascade of sego lilies she was to carry; the pioneer mothers found their places. Sabra climbed the manmade hill and_ stood poised, her arms in ballet position. | It was then Jennie realized she had forgotten the thermometer. It was too late. The invisible driver had taken his place under the fluttering paper mountain, someone hastily secured a sagebrush to the hillside, and the float moved majestically off to take its place in the parade. Jennie and Rex hurried Lance and Lora and Johnnie off to Rex's office where they could watch the parade from the comfort of the office windows. 528 Whenever Jenny thought about the parade afterwards, she tried to remember the splendor of it as it inched below their view. Before the float, marched a band of Highlanders. Their fast whirling made Jennie's blood sing with delight. The advancing music made the float seem even more impressive. The beautiful Ronda smiled and waved her white-gloved hand from the backdrop of the sego lily. Sabra, like a winged nymph, danced on the narrow circle of the manmade hill. La eS ge Jennie's heart stood still. Sabra had gone into the inner world of herself and was no longer aware of watchers or surroundings. Jennie, knowing Sabra's powers of projection, had no doubt that to her child, the flimsy mound she stood upon, had become a hill, and the lovely Ronda, no doubt, a princess. "Rex?"' He looked at her in gentle 'amusement. ''Now, honey, she's perfectly all right. The float is practically standing still. She's enjoying herself to the hilt. Stop fussing." = The float passed before them and was lost in the sea of marchers and coming floats. Jennie sighed and settled back to evaluate her own float against the field of them. The telephone rang. Rex an- swered it. Jennie half turned. But when he said, "What hospital?" through lips gone white, Jennie knew. She went to stand beside him. Lance came to her at once and took her hand. "Now, Mom it's all right." She patted his shoulder. ''Go down and find a cab, Lance. You can walk a_ few blocks through the crowd. We'll call you." Rex put down the telephone. "If we go down through the alley we can get to a cab quicker ourselves. No use trying to move the car." Jennie could never remember getting down to the alley, nor through it. She recalled afterwards that the cab driver had had one cauliflower ear, but he had driven without regard to traffic or lights. "I'll get you there, folks. Don't worry. I'll get you there in plenty of time." They went up an elevator. They went down an interminable hall, the floors of which gleamed like glass. They came to a place named "Emergency," and there Rex put her into a chair. "ll go to the desk," he said. He came back, after a long time, with Doctor Lawson walking beside him. "She fell,' Rex explained. 'She danced too far out and she fell." "She was ill before that," said the Doctor, with a stern look at Jennie. "The child had a temperature of 103 to start with." He said thoughtfully, "She must have blacked out." Jennie said nothing. She could not speak. She looked wordlessly at Rex. In her mind words tumbled like the clothes in a dryer, WHEAT FOR THE WISE the words were all the same, rewards. She felt her faith flowing out of her like her breath. Her strength was a wisp that would not hold her together. She cried and could not wipe the tears away. Rex leaned over her. ''What is the bishop's number?" Jennie looked at him dazedly. "Why?" "To call him up here. He has the power to make her well." The strength flowed back into her, and the faith. She felt like a farmer who had sowed his wheat and was not astonished to find the golden grains ready for the miller. She gave him the number and waited and prayed. But she prayed mostly for Rex, and mostly in thanksgiving, for she had no doubt about Sabra's recovery. THE uncertain hours seemed endless. The bishop came and told her that their float had won the first prize. The papers came and there was the float on the front page. Then the doctor came with Rex and helped her to her feet, and said, ""You can come in now." So. Jennie followed them into the narrow room and there was her beloved, the strange and beautiful child she did not understand. Jennie bent over Sabra. "I'm sorry I didn't remember about the thermometer."' "T wanted you to forget,' Sabra whispered. "Don't be sorry." Rex stood beside Jennie and held her hand. "It's all right. Sabra will dance on a thousand floats before she's. Done with dancing." 529 JULY 1966 But Sabra pressed her advantage. "When can I get baptized?" Rex grinned at her. "'With the rest of us, when you are better." When they were driving home Jennie could contain herself no longer. "But when and how?" Rex said testily, ""Can't a man have any secrets?" "No. Tell me." "The flagpole I was telling you about, the one that ran up a pennant every once in awhile with words on it... Like not in word but in power." "You mean Sabra... And the administering?" "No. Long, long ago. I just didn't have the will to break down the last crumbling wall. It happened when I saw what was happening to you and to Lance and to Sabra... The mysterious force of good that circled you and helped you overcome your obstacles and brought you through. " He looked at her with longing, "You were never so beautiful as when you sat flushed and disheveled trying to teach Billy to read, or slaving over your Trekker lessons... Or trying to tie the world together for your son." "But I don't understand," said Jennie. "I could never think of the words to tell you what our religion is all about... How simple it is as simple as Jesus in the manger." Rex smiled at her. "Or as complex as life itself." He caressed her hair. ""You were too busy and too full of faith to notice that you were moving mountains." He laughed. "It takes someone like me, who lives in the world to see what is really happening." Jennie sat still, struggling to understand her husband. "Not in word, but in power. There has to be power in his Church. Power, helping people to keep his commandments, power that builds faith and nourishes it, power that protects and guides and increases. It's a tremendous thing." She looked at him uncertainly. "But how do you know this?" she demanded. He shook his head. "Isn't that just like a woman. She'll plug in her vacuum and clean her whole house with it.. And never know how it works..." he said slowly, "but a man like me... Has to know what makes it work, before he dares to use it." "The rewards of righteousness..' said Jennie, "remind me to remind Lance about his speech." "T'll remind him myself," said Rex. "After all, that's my job 39 now. A DAY LIKE THIS Maude O. Cook The dark is blotting out another day; It soon will join the silent, long parade Of all the yesterdays. Time folds away Its failure and success; the dreams are laid Aside, to find fulfillment or defeat In some tomorrow Memories remain, Forevermore to share a safe retreat, Where days like this make recollection sweet. 530 Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Tongan Mission Relief Society Board Instructs District and Branch Officers January, February, and March 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Finehika B. Pulotu, Secretary-Treasurer; Salavia Muti, Second Counselor; Lela Dalton, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society; Tu'avava'u Mapa, President; Sulia Pule, First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right, district officers; Siu Angelau; Katalina Laomake'i; Lily Wolfgramm; Liahona Fifita; Seini Lola Afu; 'Alaimaluloa Taimani. Sister Dalton reports: "During the first quarter of 1966, district conferences were held on the islands of Tongatapu, 'Eua, Ha'apai, Vava'u, Niue, and Fiji. In line with the theme of 'Improved Leadership,' a demonstration on lesson preparation was given to all officers and class leaders. On the same day, district and mission boards met together to discuss accomplishments during 1965 and plans for the year 1966. Relief Society begins in March here in the Southern Hemisphere. "As a further stimulus for improvement in record keeping, among the fifty-six branches and eleven districts with organized societies, the branch and district presidents and secretary-treasurers on the island of Tongatapu were called together for instruction on February 7th. It was felt that a deéper understanding existed of the Relief Society ward record book as a result. "The Tongan sisters in the picture are dressed in their traditional black mourning clothes (with a ta'ovala around the waist) in respect for the passing of their late Queen Salote Tupou. The strict, enforced mourning will be in effect for a period of six months." 531 JULY 1966 North Sanpete Stake (Utah), Fairview Ward Relief Society Annual Day Observance March 17, 1966 Left to right: Lyndon Graham, designer of plaque: Ruth Eriksen and Nora Christensen, historians. Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Relief Society, reports: "The Fairview North Ward Relief Society celebrated the founding of the organization the evening of March 17, 1966, by presenting the pageant 'Then Came the Women,' depicting the history of the general organization. Fairview South Ward also participated, and all husbands and Priesthood authorities were invited to join the activities, which included tableaus, slides, songs, and refreshments. "Stake officers were present at a meeting preceding this event, where Nora Christensen and Ruth Eriksen unveiled a picture plaque portraying the nineteen Relief Society presidencies who have served the North Ward since its organization in 1868. Lyndon Graham designed and made the frame to fit over the fireplace in the Relief Society room. It is made of wood tinted with gold and pink and decorated with the Relief Society emblem and blue ribbon with gold lettering. It is covered with glass and can be adjusted to add the pictures of future presidences for many years to come. "After a leadership meeting showing the film 'A Record Shall Be Kept' and urging presidencies to write a history of their wards, President Nora Christensen and Education Counselor Ruth Eriksen were inspired to fulfill this assignment. Sister Eriksen had a history written up to 1931 that had been given to her sometime ago, but from there on, it was search and research. Past presidents were asked to write their histories, and pictures were gleaned from friends and relatives throughout Utah and several other states. The written history. With pictures, is completed now. The new President Donna Brunger states: 'We anticipate publishing the history in booklet form for our centennial year 1968.' "' Winder Stake (Utah) Winder Eighth Ward Presents Dramatization For Relief Society Anniversary March 18, 1966 Seated second row, center: Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; and Josephine Patterson, Director of Social Service; back row, standing between these two sisters (in dark dress), Verona George, President, Winder Eighth Ward Relief Society, with her counselors, at her right: Virginia Smart, and at her left: Judy Riches. Louise W. Free, President, Winder Stake Relief Society, reports: "On March 18th, for the sisters and their husbands, the Winder Eighth Ward Relief Society presented the dramatization "There's a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow' in which a modern day scientist took the audience back in time through an ingenious time machine to the organization of Relief Society and the lives of each of the nine General Presidents. As each scene unfolded a sister dressed in authentic clothing for her time, stood behind a plastic curtain and represented one of the presidents. When the life of President Belle S. Spafford was presented, the audience was delighted to see Sister Spafford portray her own life.: "The Singing Mothers, under the direction of Bessie Upwall, provided appropriate music. The title song 'There's a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow,' was sung by Brother and Sister Jede Ellis between scenes, and then, at the end of the dramatization, the audience joined in the singing. Kirsten Pruhs was in charge of the buffet supper which was served following the program. Favors were blue foil booklets with a gold key attached, enclosing an original poem by Edna Maurer 'The Key to a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow' in which the idea was expressed that the key is love, faith, charity, and service." 532 BELLS NOT mane, om 7 pane i. A a JULY 1966 South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Concert Presented in Honor of the Relief Society Anniversary March 18, 1966 Standing at the right, left to right: Norma W. Witt, accompanist; Maxine S. Pattison, chorister; Heidi S. Birch, organist. Far right, on each side of the first four rows: Luella W. Finlinson, President; Momo T. Ushio, Work Counselor; Betty T. Erekson, Secretary-Treasurer; Marion A. Reed, Education Counselor. Sister Finlinson reports: "The South Cottonwood Stake held its first formal Singing Mothers concert March 18, 1966, commemorating the anniversary of Relief Society. We were thrilled with the response and performance. One hundred and twenty-one sisters from nine wards sang from memory eleven beautiful hymns. We feel this was a tremendous goal to achieve. A guest instrumental ensemble, consisting of Lucille Salisbury, Afton Woffinden, Ann Larson, and Ann Bailey played lovely interlude numbers which added much to the delight of the enthusiastic audience. The closing number 'Onward Christian Soldiers' was assisted by a trumpet trio from the Murray High School band, which made a glorious climax to an outstanding evening's entertainment. Each ward took its turn and assisted in the task of providing baby sitters for the many children, while their mothers practiced. Each stake board member was chairman of one of the committees which helped make the event a financial as well as an esthetic success." California Mission, Palm Springs District Singing Mothers Present Music For Quarterly Conference March 13, 1966 Third from the right in the third row: June M. Brower, newly sustained President, Palm Springs District Relief Society; Neta Fulkerson, second from the right in the second row, accompanist; assistant director Evelyn Green, at - the right on the first row; LaVirda Stuehser, director, first on the right in the second row; the soloist Shirley La Ventura is fourth from the right, second row. Athelia S. Tanner, President, California Mission Relief Society, reports: "This chorus is made up of six branches, covering an area of approximately 150 miles. For conference, the chorus sang 'The Stranger of Galilee,' and 'Lord, God of Our Fathers,' also 'Sweet Is the Work,' as a prelude, and 'I Need Thee Every Hour' as a postlude. Elder Frank Call, missionary from Brigham City, Utah, accompanied the group on the violin." Ruth H. Jensen is Supervisor of the California Mission Relief Society. Lorin Farr Stake (Utah), Ogden Seventh Ward Celebrates Relief Society Anniversary March 16, 1966 Left to right: Aenone Hall, Second Counselor; Elma Snowball, SecretaryTreasurer; Hazel Owen, literature class leader; Hazel Gray, First Counselor; Helen Clifford, President. Virga W. Swenson, President, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, reports: "After a sketch of the organization of Relief Society in 1842, one of the sisters was especially honored for her devotion to Relief Society. Sister Hazel Jones Owen has been the literature class leader for seventeen years without a break. She read her latest poem, and other compositions by her were read by sisters of Relief Society. Sister Owen has had poems published in The Relief Society Magazine and in The Improvement Era. A corsage and a Relief Society pin were presented to Sister Owen in acknowledgment of her many years of service. "A trophy was also awarded to the Seventh Ward for having 100 per cent visiting teaching every month for the past eight years. (This was presented by Sister Swenson.)"' 534 m™ OF DEVOTED SERVICE JULY 1966 Hyrum Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Completes Series of Ward Conferences Seated, left to right: Einer L. Jensen, high council representative; Alda S. Walters, Second Counselor; Berenece B. Darley, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society; Loraine R. Allen, First Counselor; Earle W. Allen, President, Hyrum Stake. Back row, standing, left to right: Myra B. Coulam, chorister; Melba S. Nielsen, homemaking leader; Arlene N. Larsen, organist; Angeline J. Smith, SecretaryTreasurer; Donna C. Russell, theology class leader; Elsie B. Poppleton, Magazine representative; Alice N. Olsen, visiting teacher message leader; Radah F. Leishman, social relations class leader; Harriet C. Leishman, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Darley reports: "We have just completed the Relief Society meetings in connection with ward conferences in all eight wards, and we are so happy because we feel that we have had the best conferences and the greatest success over any previous year. Under the direction of the Priesthood, the entire stake board has gone into each ward at a work meeting and put on a special presentation. This year, we used thoughts from Counselor Louise W. Madsen's Relief Society General Conference address, and our theme was 'Relief Society — a Doorway to Many Wonderful Things.' Kay A. Parkinson made eight beautiful paintings or visual aids and put them into a book form, with rings so the pages could be turned." Utah State University Stake Annual Food Fair and Fashion Show April 2, 1966 Front row, left to right: Elder Eldred L. Waldron, adviser from the High Council; Gwen J. Miner, President, Utah State University Stake Relief Society; Jeanette Hogan, First Counselor; Carleen Nuzman, Second Counselor. Sister Miner reports: "Over 500 people attended the annual food and fashion fair sponsored by the Utah State University Stake Relief Society. The theme 'April Showers of Food, Fun, and Fashion' was carried out in decorations, program, and general arrangements. Eight beautiful and unusual booths were constructed by the different ward organizations. Each booth displayed a different type of food prepared by the members of the fifteen wards comprising the stake. The sweepstakes, or 'Fairest of the Fair' was won by Diane Bennett of the Second Ward, whose entry was an unusual and original cherry pie. Following the fashion show, the food was served to those present. The prize for the best booth was won by the Ninth and Tenth Wards for their model of a Chinese pagoda. Over one hundred participated in the fashion show, where there were eight different categories." South Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 1, 1966 Visiting teachers honored for twenty-five or more years of service, front row, left to right: Ruth Pierce; Ruby Davis; Lenora Holmes; Chloe B. Lund; Pamela Gale; Teen Dial; Mary Baker. Back row, left to right: Lovisa Nelson; Neoma Pett; Duella Victor; Myrtle Clifford; Flossie Braegger; Mary Zunzler; Lettie Christopherson. Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "Spring daffodils were presented to all of the honored guests. Lovely luncheon tablecloths were presented to Pamela Gale. Age ninety-three. Oldest Relief Society visiting teacher; Chloe B. Lund, fifty years as a visiting teacher, with forty-eight years of continuous service: and Lenora Holmes, for forty-five years of continuous service. The luncheon cloths were made by Marva Cook, Stake Relief Society work leader. Also honored were a number of Relief Society visiting teachers who had made 100 per cent in their visits during the year." 536 Lesson Department XT, \ (4 SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 73—John's Testimony of Jesus (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, 93:1-20) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the necessity for a knowledge of the mission of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer. INTRODUCTION In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93, the reader is told that the only way by which a person may come unto the Lord Jesus Christ is by forsaking his sins. (D&C 93:1.) This truth, stated differently, is that the atonement of Christ remits sins only if the person repents and accepts the Savior by an authorized baptism. (D&C 29:17; 42:1.) CLASS DISCUSSION: Why is it important for each sister to study the life of Christ for herself? Give an_ instance where one of Jesus' teachings has impressed you so that you have modified your actions. 536 TO KNOW HIM The promised blessing to those who keep the commandments is to know God. (John 17:3.) To know God means more than the usually accepted meaning that one may, by the Holy Ghost, know of his existence and of his plan of salvation. (This means of knowledge is known to thousands of Latter-day Saints. Keeping the commandments is an essential to meet the requirements.) Men may also literally "see his face" in this life. (D&C 67:10-14; 93:1.) In commenting upon the words of Jesus to his disciples, as recorded in John 14:12 to 27, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that to receive the other Com- forter mentioned in these verses it was necessary to: (1) receive the Holy Ghost, the first Comforter, after water baptism; (2) hunger and thirst after righteousness; and (3) thoroughly to be proved in keeping the commandments. After this, one would be entitled to receive the other Comforter, the blessing of being in the presence of Jesus Christ and the Father. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 150-151.) Many names might be _ furnished of those who have literally seen the Lord other than Isaiah, Ezekiel, and John the Revelator, named by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The brother of Jared (Ether 3:12-20); Nephi and his brother Jacob (2 Nephi 11:2-3); Moroni (Ether 12:38-41); Stephen, the first Christian martyr (Acts 7:54-56); Sidney Rigdon (D&C 76:22-24); Oliver Cowdery (Ibid., 110:1-10); and others of this dispensation have seen the Lord. To know God in the ultimate sense is to become like him. For this purpose the Melchizedek Priesthood is available to man that the ordinances of the House of the Lord may prepare him for this greatest measure of salvation. (Ibid., 88:19-23; 124:27-28, 41-42.) Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, counsels us in the way to eternal life: With complete surrender to the spirit of the gospel let us, honestly and without guile, search our own souls and find the weakness which presently impedes our upward climb to eternal life. If that weakness be faultfinding, evil speaking of the Lord's anointed, or profaning the name of Deity, let us desist. If it be LESSON DEPARTMENT neglecting our prayers, let us pause night and morning in our mad rush and kneel with our families and in our secret chambers while we pour out our souls in thanksgiving and petition, until hungering and_thirsting after righteousness we are filled with the Holy Ghost. If it be failure to obtain the sealing ordinances of the temple for ourselves and families, let us straightway prepare to enter that holy place and obtain them before it is too late. If it be the giving way to anger or appetite for the things forbidden in the Word of Wisdom, or surrendering to baser lusts; if it be desecration of the Sabbath day or refusing to contribute of our time and means according to the laws of the Church for the building of the kingdom; whatever it be, let us find it, recognize it, and do something about it daily (Conference Report. October 1956, page 17). THE TRUE LIGHT He who comes to the Savior may not only see his face in the Lord's own due time, and know that he is, but he will also understand that the Savior is the light which lighteth every man that comes into the world. (Zbid., 93:2; see Lesson 65, Relief Society Magazine, August 1965.) It is this influence in the world that ennobles man, raises him to greater heights of accomplishments, and teaches him that there is joy in right doing, whereas, regret and sorrow follow when man does not live by the light he possesses. (D&C 84:45-47; Moroni 7:10-19.) THE ONENESS OF THE FATHER AND THE SON In Section 93 and other scriptures, the doctrine that the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ are one, is known. (D&C 93:3; John 10:30; I John 5:7.) As a part of this concept, further emphasis is given in this lan- 539 JULY 1966 guage: the Son is in the Father, and the Father is in the Son. (John 14:10.) This does not mean that the Father and the Son are one person. They are separate and distinct personages. (D&C 130:22; John 17:11, 20- 24.) Of what does this oneness consist? Elder James E. Talmage wrote: This unity is a type of completeness; the mind of any one member of the Trinity is the mind of the others: seeing as each of them does with the eye of perfection, they see and understand alike. Under any given conditions each would act in the same way, guided by the same principles of unerring justice and equity. The one-ness of the Godhead, to which the scriptures so abundantly testify, im- | plies no mystical union of substance, nor any unnatural and therefore impossible blending' of personality. Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are as distinct in their persons and individualities as are any three personages in mortality. Yet their unity of purpose and operation is such as to make their edicts one, and their will the will of God (The Articles of Faith, page 41). CLASS DISCUSSION: Since the three members of the Godhead are one in unity, in what ways must we be a unity with them to receive exaltation? THE FATHER AND THE SON Jesus speaks of himself as having received a fulness from the Father, and he is therefore known as the Father. He, of course, is the Son because he was_ tabernacled in the flesh as the offspring of the Father. (D&C 93: 4.) That Christ is known in the scriptures as the Father is well attested. (Isa. 9:6; Ether 3:14; 2 Nephi 19:6; Mosiah 16:15; Alma 11:38-40.) According to an exposition on 540 the doctrine of the Father and the Son by The First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles, issued on June 30, 1916, there are three different meanings of the title "Father" as applied to Jesus Christ. These are: (1) "Father" as Creator (Ether 4:7; Mosiah 16:15); (2) "Father" of those who abide in his gospel (D&C 50:41; 25:1; 34:3; 39:1-4); (3) "Father" because he represents the Father who gave him the right to use the title (John 5:43; 3 Nephi 20:35; 28:10; D&C 50: 43.) THE WORKS OF THE FATHER MANIFEST Jesus came into the world (1) to perform the works of his Father; and (2) to testify that men might know of the Father. (D&C 93:5; John 5:19.) In this latter sense he became the revelation of God to the world, and, therefore, he was known as the "Word." (John 1:1, 14; D&C 93:8; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 346.) Jesus was also the ''Word" because "the word of God came through Him and was embodied in Him" (PENROSE, CHARLES W.: Conference Report, April 1915, page 37). JOHN'S RECORD The introduction to Section 93 in the Doctrine and Covenants and, also the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 590, identify the testator of the Savior in this revelation to be John the Beloved, the apostle of the Lord. Of him it is recorded that he saw and bore record of the Lord's glory, but his complete record is yet to be revealed. (D&C 93:6.) The author of the Book of John reveals the in- completeness of that record by saying that "the world itself could not contain the books that should be written" about the Savior. (John 21:25.) The promise is given, however, that the fulness of John's record will be revealed "if you are faithful" (D&C 93:18). JESUS AS CREATOR Jesus was in the beginning before the world was created. (D&C 93:7.) As the messenger of salvation he brought the words of the Father to men, and he also revealed the character of God in his life. Only the Being who was truth, who taught only the truth, ' could redeem men and the world. _Jesus paid for the transgression in the Garden of Eden that 'brought spiritual and physical death into the world, by sacrificing his life, the life of a Being who was sinless and capable of rescuing man from these deaths. (Ibid., verses 8-9; 2 Nephi 9:6- 12; D&C 45:3-4.) The Savior redeemed us, as the apostle Paul ' Said: "he hath purchased [us] with his own blood" (Acts 20: 28). John testifies that men were made by the Savior; in fact, all things were his creation. (D&C 93:10.) This earth was created by him through the "light of Christ"; consequently, all men were created through him, for all are made of the dust of the earth. (Genesis 3:19.) The fulness with which Christ is the Creator is expressed in this authoritative source: Christ was the actual Maker of the worlds, as an architect is the actual maker of the houses he builds. They were made by Him. But they were LESSON DEPARTMENT also made through Him; for He was as stated before, the Executive of the Father in the work of creation. They were also made of Him; for He is the very source of the light and life that permeate creation (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 591). It should also be noted that not only was Christ the Creator of this earth but of "worlds." (D&C 93:10; 88:6-10.) THE ONLY BEGOTTEN OF THE FATHER The references to Jesus in the scriptures as the "Only Begotten of the Father' are many. (John 3:16, 18; 2 Nephi 25:12; Alma 9:26; D&C 93:11; 20:21; Moses 6:52.) The First Presidency, in 1916, affirmed the literalness of Jesus' birth by his mortal mother, Mary, and the Eternal Father. Elder James E. Talmage has also written about this doctrine. (The Articles of Faith, page 466; Jesus the Christ, page 81.) Because he was the Only Begotten Son of the Father in the flesh, it was possible for him to offer the infinite atonement for men. FROM GRACE TO GRACE John's testimony is that Jesus grew from grace to grace, that all things were not his at first. And I, John, saw that he received not of the fulness at the first, but received grace for grace; And he received not of the fulness at first, but continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness; And thus he was called. The Son of God, because he received not of the fulness at the first (D&C 93:12-14). Born as a babe, reared from boyhood to manhood, the Child Jesus developed as did other children. We do not know how much the memory of his former 541 JULY 1966 life in the spirit world was withheld, that his growth might be an experience of mortality. Elder Talmage points out, however, that his growth was "from good to greater good, not from evil to good" (Jesus the Christ, page 112). In the temple at the age of twelve, Jesus knew of his divine parentage through the Eternal Father. He was about his Father's business, not the business of Joseph, his legal father. (Jesus the Christ, pages 113-116.) The Bible is silent on Jesus' boyhood and up to the time of his ministry at thirty years, except for the event of the temple at the age of twelve. (Luke 2:41- 52.) Additional information regarding his formative years to the time of his ministry is given us by the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows: And it came to pass that Jesus grew up with his brethren, and waxed strong, and waited upon the Lord for the time of his ministry to come. And he served under his father, and he spake not as other men, neither could he be taught; for he needed not that any man should teach him. And after many years, the hour of his ministry drew nigh (Inspired Version, Matt. 3:24-26). "For he needed not that any man should teach him" suggests that the normal difficulties of teaching and disciplining were not present in his life. Ultimately, as an exalted man, Jesus declared that he had received all power from the Father. (Matt. 28:16-18; D&C 93:16-17.), Even as Jesus received a fulness after the resurrection, so also may the faithful in their exalted state. (Romans 8:17; D&C 84: 38.) 542 THE HEAVENS WERE OPENED In testifying of Christ's divinity as the Only Begotten Son of 7 God, John refers to the time when Jesus was baptized. (D&C 93:15.) At his baptism the heavens were opened and John the Baptist saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, with the voice of the Father saying, ""This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." (Matt. 3:17; c. F. Mark 1:9-11; Luke 3:21-22.) Did the Holy Ghost come in the form of a dove? No, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, but the dove is the sign of the Holy Ghost. (DHC V:260-261.) Several times the Father testified from the heavens of his relationship to his Only Begotten Son. SUMMARY The intent of John's testimony given by the Savior to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the first 19 verses of Section 93, is to show that Jesus Christ is divine, because, First, the Savior is the true lght which gives understanding to all men. Second, he is the "Word," the Giver of the revelations, and he was the revelation of God to the world while in his mortal ministry. Third, he is known as the Father because he so completely represents the Father in will, mind, and purpose. Fourth, he became man's Redeemer and Savior by giving his life in atonement for sin. Fifth, he is the Creator of worlds, including our earth, and, he is also man's Creator. Sixth, he is literally the Only Begotten Son of the Father in the flesh and as such received a fulness from the Father. CONCLUSION What do these truths mean to the Latter-day Saints? The Savjor says that they were given, that you may understand and know how to worship, and know what you worship, that you may come unto the Father in my name, and in due time receive of his fulness. For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace (D&C 93: 19-20). LESSON DEPARTMENT CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss your feelings toward Christ as they have been influenced by this lesson. FOR HOME CONSIDERATION: Following the advice of Elder Romney for every one to search his soul and discover his weaknesses, each sister could list two or three of her weaknesses which she feels are most impeding her eternal progress, and endeavor to overcome them. TT T=" 8 ES VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants ED a ee eee Alice Colton Smith Message 73—''But | Have Commanded You to Bring Up Your Children in Light and Truth" (D&C 93:40) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To provide an atmosphere in the home for ® In the woods, alone, on a beau- _tiful, clear, spring day, Joseph Smith prayed for truth. It was his first attempt at vocal prayer. At fourteen, confused by conflicting religious claims, he turned to the scriptures for guidance as his _ devout parents had taught him to do. In these scriptures he found the words that were to bring light and truth to his life and to all mankind. With rare and simple faith, he heeded the counsel of the apostle James to ask God, "that giveth to all men liberally" (James 1:5). Embarking on one of the greatest quests of man, the search for truth, he used one of the best tools of learning, prayer. Spiritual learning experiences. He prayed with faith, humility, and a receptive mind. As is so often the case when we search, we find not the simple answer we seek but an almost unbelievable, exciting new dimension of knowledge. So to him the answer came. The darkness which had enveloped him after addressing what was seemingly a simple question was dispelled, and the answer came in a light, brighter than the sun. He had asked a simple question. God answered him with the key to eternity— that he and we might return to God's presence. Joseph Smith was a good student. With the never-ending en- 543 JULY 1966 couragement of his parents he had from infancy steadily pursued the steps of learning. As we seek to help our children follow his example, we might ask, '""How did he acquire knowledge?"' Learning is a process, a long process of development. It did not begin for Joseph on that clear day in 1820. Years before, by gentle but firm teaching, his parents had brought him to love the scriptures and to search out the meaning of the words of God. The first step in attaining knowledge is a love for learning —the cultivation of the burning desire to know—with which children begin. The second step is to acquire the tools of learning, some of which are reading, writing, and prayer. The third is to learn to study—to seek out for oneself. All this takes years. All this takes patience, forbearance, gentleness, love and, sometimes,, failure, but always with the will — to go on. When one is facing conflicting — opinions, as Joseph did, what does one do? He should turn to the source of light, to God in prayer. In a shaft of light God answered Joseph. For us it is more commonly through an urging of the mind and spirit, a burning within, the imperceptible opening of new doors in the mind, or the conviction that comes to one through the still, small voice. Let us make the consistent, patient, long-suffering effort to teach our children from birth to seek, to search, to ask, to pray, and to study. We must help them to know the best books such as the one from which the Prophet Joseph Smith drew his inspiration. Then, as God commanded us, we will bring up our children in light and truth. HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon PUT SPARKLE IN YOUR MEALS Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: 'To show how the homemaker can plan,. Prepare,. And serve INTRODUCTION John Ruskin, author writes: the English Cooking means the knowledge of all herbs and fruits... And spices.. It means carefulness, and inventive- 544 nutritious and appetizing family meals. Ness, and watchfulness, and willingness, and readiness of appliance; it means the economy of your great grandmothers,.. And the science of modern chemists; it means... Tasting and no wasting; it means English thoroughness, and French art, and Arabian hospitality.... Well-prepared meals served by loving hands can be more than nourishment. Mealtime should be family time—a time of good food and companionship, a time of rejoicing and thankfulness. What might we do to make our meals more enjoyable? NUTRITION COUNTS Food is fuel for work, action, joy; it is fuel for endurance, for nerve, for strength, for fun. It helps the child to grow, the man to stay on the job, the woman to be at her best. It often determines attitude toward life; it can give one vitality and sparkle, or it can be a robber of stamina and enthusiasm. How can we select food wisely? Nutritionists in the United States Department of Agriculture, working with an eminent food and nutrition board, have devised a simple Daily Food Guide for normal healthy persons. (This may be modified to suit the eating habits and foods of different countries.) The guide provides a framework within which meal planning can be varied and interesting as the homemaker desires. Daily Food Guide I. Milk Group—children, 3 to 4 glasses; teenagers, 4 or more glasses; adults, 2 or more glasses. Cheese, ice cream, puddings, and other milk-made foods can supply part of the milk. II. Meat group—two or more servings. Group includes meats, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese—with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates. III. Vegetables and Fruits—4 or more servings. Include a citrus fruit or tomato, a dark green or yellow vegetable, and other vegetables and also fruits, including potatoes. LESSON DEPARTMENT IV. Breads and Cereals—4 or more servings. Includes enriched, whole grain or restored breads and cereals; other baked foods made with enriched or whole grain flour; enriched macaroni, spaghetti, and noodles. In some of the islands of the Pacific, poi and breadfruit are eaten. In Mexico, tortillas and tacos constitute important items of the diet. TO DISCUSS 1. Where the class consists of some members who have lived in'a country other than your own, have them share very briefly with the class the diet patterns of that country. In what ways do they not conform, if any, to the Daily Food Guide? In what ways do they conform? 2. How can vegetables be prepared in order to make them more appealing to the family? Be sure to elicit from class that the cooking of vegetables in a small amount of boiling water (with lid_on kettle) only until vegetables are tender, insures minimum vitamin and mineral loss, and helps to retain color and flavor. Use vegetable liquid for soups, sauces, and gravies. FOOD WITH A FLAIR Do your meals have appetite appeal? Someone said long ago that we "eat, first of all, with our eyes."" Food not only provides nourishment for the body, but it appeals to our senses of sight, smell, taste, and touch. As you plan your meals always consider the color, shape, texture, and temperature of each food, as well as the flavor. Also consider these guides in the relationship of one food to another; be sure the foods you use in the same menu are compatible. "Our fruit plate is a symphony and mother and I arranged it so quickly," glowed teenage Beth as she set the plate before the family. Assembled around the table. "All I know is that it looks good 545 JULY 1966 enough to eat on my _ birthday," chimed in twelve-year-old Richard. Other members of the family agreed, as they helped themselves to the tempting fruit—common everyday fruit—but arranged with elegant simplicity. The large plate wore a ruffle of red-tinged garden lettuce around its perimeter, and picking up the red tones was a circle of watermelon wedges. Next came canned Bartlett pears, the outside of each pear blushing with a bit of rosy food coloring. Balls of lush green honeydew melon surrounded an old pink glass compote in the center. The compote contained a tangy, sweet French dressing, punctuated with cherry bits. Food, carefully prepared and served artistically on clean, crisp table linen, can be a symphony— in fact harmony in a meal is as impressive as that in music or in a painting. Your family will react more favorably when food is exciting and colorful. In most cases it is just as easy to plan and prepare an attractive meal as it is a drab, cheerless one. TO DISCUSS 1. Have the class visualize food combinations on a plate for everyday meals. Ask them to share some of their go-together foods which make for greater color appeal. Would a simple garnish such as a small bunch of grapes, carrot sticks, crab apple, or beets do the trick? (Food pictures from magazines might be shown, but it should be remembered that the preparation be kept fairly simple and easy.) 2. How can difference in food textures add to a meal? Give some examples such as crisp croutons with soup or a crunchy cookie with pudding. 3. Try to serve hot foods hot and cold foods cold. Why is it desirable to serve one -hot dish to your family, even on a hot day? AVOID FLAVOR FATIGUE Contrast. Of. Flavors adds much interest to a meal—foods that 546 are sweet and sour, bland and — spicy complement each other because of their diversity. An orange glaze on sweet potatoes, mint with lamb, and apple slices or apple sauce with pork are some examples. Learning the up-todate methods of food preparation and food combinations will pay off in flavor zest. Relief Society women have always shared their recipes and the blessings they have in their kitchens with others. SUMMARY Assume your food responsibility with enthusiasm. Plan wisely, shop to save, store foods properly, learn to cook skillfully (it is always fun to do something over which you are the master), serve food as attractively as possible, and even though at the end of the day you may be weary, put sparkle in your meal with a smile. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Case Study—Mrs. Pett planned the following nutritious menu for her family: roast beef, potatoes cooked in their packets, gravy, buttered cauliflower, waldorf salad (peeled apples ana celery with a creamy dressing), homemade whole-wheat bread and butter for those who wished it, baked apple brown Betty, and milk. How would you improve the menu? Make a list of each family member's favorite foods. Start a file of attractive and easy to prepare and serve family meals with the food budget in mind. NOTE: It may be wise for Homemaking - Discussion leaders in countries other than the United States to use food and menus suitable to their particular country. The example contained in "To Do and Think About" is a menu _ lack- _ing in color. Too much "sameness" is depressing to the appe: tite.: SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 6—(Lesson 18 in Series)—That All May Learn Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons-1966: Lesson 17) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To motivate Latter-day Saint women to fulfill their role in teaching one another ''all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God."' INTRODUCTION Each of us is a teacher, if we live in association with others. We are teachers, inherently appointed in the sense that we may influence others for good or ill by what we do, by what we say, and by our attitudes or reaction to the varied stimuli of experience. This is unavoidable. Since the impact of words and the power of example are vitally important in teaching, may not each of us, in essence, be saying, "Follow me, learn from what I say and from what I do'? This being so, a definite responsibility falls upon each of us as to (1) what we believe; (2) how our belief influences us; (3) what we say about others; (4) how we react to what others say, verbally or in written form; and (5) the example of our everyday-living. It is obvious from these foregoing statements that teaching may be accomplished in a number of different ways. As Latter-day Saints, we have been specifically admonished to teach one another the gospel of Jesus Christ. That we may become aware of the means by which we may accomplish this divine admonition, is the central theme of this lesson. That we may be motivated, as Latter-day Saint women, to utilize these means, is its objective. EACH A TEACHER And I give unto you another commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D&C 88:77-78). The foregoing scripture, generally familiar to Latter-day Saints, calls our attention to the fact that we are to teach one another. This indicates that the teaching opportunities and responsibilities are not restricted to one individual, or to even a few. It tells us, in addition, what we as Latter-day Saints are to teach and why. If we teach diligently we shall have the Lord's grace to attend us. Teaching the doctrine of the kingdom might aptly apply to 547 JULY 1966 prepared instruction on specific principles of the gospel. "All things that pertain unto the kingdom of God" might have wider application and include the ethical principles which each of us may teach, unconsciously or by specific intent, in our everydayliving—all, in fact, that will further our progress on the road to perfection. BY VERBAL WORD The following comment. Illustrates how a statement, casually spoken, may influence another person's life: Woman "A"' speaking: Something you said a few months ago is changing my attitude completely. You said, "What happens to us is not as important as what we let that happening do to us." I believe that you are right, and I am not going to let my recent misfortune embitter me and ruin my tomorrows. Instead, I am using it as a constructive step toward achieving compassion and understanding for all others in similar circumstances. Woman '"B" speaking: A statement made by my father, over forty years ago, has influenced my life for good throughout the years. He said, 'If you want to see the stars, look up. That's where you'll see them. They're not on the ground." CLASS ACTIVITY: 1. What applications foregoing statements you? Discuss. 2. Give verbal statements made by others which may have influenced your life for good. 3. Relate an example where something you have said has _ influenced a friend for good. Could the have for BY WRITTEN WORD The power of the written word to influence our lives is beyond 548 calculation. It is basic to secular education. It is basic also to our religious education, since it is through the written and preserved word that we know of the dealings of the Heavenly Father with his children upon the earth; that we know of his revealed word of the prophets of the past and of the present. The written word, accordingly, can bring the teachings of the Savior into our homes today. We, as individuals, also, may influence others, in some measure, through our written words. The penned letter, the printed article, the brief poem, the public address, all may be directives in the lives of others. Case Example, No. 1, woman speaking: I was unable to attend the annual Relief Society Conference in 1965 but I was grateful for the Magazine which preserves much of it for me. The inspiring address of President Brown on "The Exalted Sphere of Woman" is a message for every L. D. S. Woman. Talks by apostles of the Lord addressed primarily to Relief Society officers in furthering the work of Relief Society, have enduring application and are assisting me greatly in my Relief Society work. I also read the wonderful talks given by our General Presidency, and I am greatly impressed by the spirit and the insight apparent in these inspiring addresses. (See Relief Society Magazines for November and December 1965, January and February 1966.) Class Activity: a. State the basic spiritual truth brought out in "The Blessings of Experience," by President Belle S. Spafford. In what way may this become a profitable teaching-truth in your life? Discuss. B. In the address "Love, the Measuring Rod,' Counselor Marianne C. Sharp acknowledges the influence that an editorial by Elder Mark E. Peter- sen has had upon her thinking. Discuss as a life-guiding principle, her statement "love is the hardest taskmaster." c. "Behold I Have Set Before Thee an Open Door," by Counselor Louise W. Madsen is based upon recorded words of the Savior. Enumerate six avenues for personal development discussed in this address. D. How do these spiritual guidelines relate to "all things that pertain to the kingdom of God?" BY DEED "Educate a mother and you educate a family" is a statement frequently heard. No person is in a better position to influence children than is the mother. The intimate nature of her relationship to her family over a long period of time, makes what she believes, says, and does, real and important factors in their learning. That family members are aware of this influence, is evidenced by words of the small child who says, "My mother thinks so, and she knows everything," and by the comment of a mature person who says, "My attitude toward this situation is, no doubt, conditioned by the early childhood training from my mother." While mothers may not need to be retold that their influence is vitally important, thoughtful mothers may appreciate and may profit by being reminded of specific ways by which they may make their teaching efforts bring forth good fruit. An example is the reminder that the mother who holds before her son and _ her daughter, the virtues of their father, may be planting the seeds of respect and obedience. Her children likely will grow to honor their father, as admonished in scripture. LESSON DEPARTMENT A sample of the fruit from such planting may be found in statements such as the following from a newly married daughter: Daughter speaking: Our mother always made. Us feel that we were very fortunate in having a wonderful father. In casual ways She referred specifically to his good qualities which she appreciated. Later, when considering a life companion, I instinctively looked for a young man who had the honesty, integrity, and other fine qualities that my father had. WE ASK OURSELVES Can one woman exert an example-influence upon an entire neighborhood? Can a woman who has no children in the home exert an influence upon the children in a neighborhood? These are questions which we may ask ourselves: Statement No. 1 Woman speaking: I have a neighbor who never speaks ill of anyone; moreover, she sees some- ~ thing good in every person. She is my best example of one who appreciates the virtues of others. Whenever I am tempted to voice an unkind remark, her example intercedes. I believe this characteristic is the key to her habitual optimism. Statement No. 2 Boy speaking: Mrs. A. Who lives on the corner of our street doesn't have any children in her house; but you'd think she did, because she likes children so much. We can tell she does by the way she treats us children on the whole block. When she passes by she waves at us, if we're outside. She bakes: cookies for us sometimes, and does other things, too. She makes us feel so friendly we think she is the best neighbor in the world. Statement No. 3 Woman speaking:; A woman who moved on our street a few summers ago keeps her yard 549 JULY 1966 so neat that it is influencing others in the neighborhood to improve the appearance of their home surroundings. THE MASTER TEACHER We can perfect ourselves in teaching the gospel through studying the life and applying the teaching principles and examples of Jesus. He was the greatest of all teachers. He is considered to be such, even by those who do not recognize him as the Messiah, the Savior of mankind. Jesus gave more than instruction. His was the creative teaching that invites the mind to think, to ask, to contemplate beyond the sound of the teaching voice. So effective were his examples and his teaching words that, after nearly two milleniums of time, minds are still motivated toward the spiritual, and the whole personality is motivated to react. The scriptures do not tell us much about the childhood of Jesus, but we find him in the temple at the age of twelve, conversing upon spiritual matters with mature men, who were learned in the letter of the law. Surely Jesus sought his Heavenly Father early. That he was continually enlightened by the inspiration of God, his divine Father, and by a study of scriptures, is evident throughout his ministry. Thus he was spiritually prepared for his mission, not only by a knowledge of scripture but by an understanding of all gospel truth. JESUS UNDERSTOOD HIS LISTENERS That Jesus understood human nature is observed as he revealed the hidden thought, the con- 550 cealed intent, and the deep yearning of those who came to him, either to learn, to worship, or to condemn. He knew their way of life, the values which they esteemed, the status symbols to which some of them paid homage, often causing them to be superficial and unkind. His compassion for the weak, his willingness to acknowledge the good beyond the sin in man, and his universal love, were overwhelming. JESUS MET THEIR NEEDS The teaching methods of Jesus were in harmony with the needs and responses of those whom he addressed. With the accusing scribes and self-righteous Pharisees, he sparred with words, line against scriptural line. To the publicans and sinners he projected the joy of the better life, through repentance and forgiveness. He helped them to understand that our Father in heaven is a God of mercy and that his forgiveness is an expression of his love. With analogies chosen from the familiar and the commonplace, the most humble and unlearned of his followers understood the central truth he wished to teach, and easily identified himself with the characters in Jesus' apt illustrations. Thus in that loved parable, The Prodigal Son, both sinner and Pharisee present must have taken to themselves a personal application —the uncharitable Pharisee seeing himself as the elder brother; the sinner identifying himself with the prodigal who squandered away his inheritance, but who, repentant and teachable, returned to receive the rejoicing love of his father. JESUS MADE HIS TEACHING VITAL Jesus made his lessons vital. He dramatized them by using terms they understood, rather than by abstractions. By using the tangible and the familiar, he helped them to see and understand the intangible. Jesus' use of the familiar and commonplace in his analogies to illustrate a moral truth was impressive and memorable—a city set upon a hill (Matt. 5:14), a candle under a bushel (Matt. 5:15-16), the salt of the earth (Matt. 5:13), the lilies of the field (Matt. 6:28). His similes were forceful and imaginative. Using moth and rust that corrupt and thieves that steal (Matt. 6:19), he made vivid the truth that earthly treasures are transient and ephemeral; that only the good life is everlasting. He likened those who hear and keep his commandments to a wise man who built his house upon a rock (Matt. 7:24-27), which withstood the destructive forces of both wind and flood. To teach that one does not bargain for God's mercy and love, he gave the parable of the laborers and the hours (Matt. 20:1-15). In the parable of the talents he taught that one, even seemingly insignificant talent is precious if improved. (Matt. 25:14-27.) To portray the need for each one to be teachable, he used the familiar landscape in the parable of the sower and the seed. The seed (the word of God) which fell upon good soil (the teachable) bringing forth fruits of the good life. (Matt. 13:3-9.) JESUS MADE FRIENDS OF HIS DISCIPLES "A great teacher plants the LESSON DEPARTMENT seed of greatness in his pupil and cultivates that seed with patience until it comes to fruition. He never lets him lose sight of what he might become" (Priesthood lesson 17). Jesus lived near to his disciples, listening to their problems, trusting them, preparing them for the great mission of carrying forth his word when he would no longer be among them. QUESTION Which of the various teaching methods used by Jesus are applicable to our daily teaching of adults? Of children? SUMMARY There are many ways by which Latter-day Saint women may fulfill their role in teaching one another the truths of the gospel. By word, verbal or written, by attitude, by example, and by prepared instruction. They further the kingdom of God when they live in harmony with its teachings and whenever and wherever they influence others to do likewise. To perfect their own lives and to teach others more effectively, they look to the example of Jesus of Nazareth, the Master Teacher, whose gospel they are admonished to teach. FOR DISCUSSION Questions that appear in. The lesson. FOR HOME-DOING 1. Reread the address given by PresidentHugh B._ Brown, (pages 884-890, December 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine), and the addresses of the General Presidency of Relief Society, (pages 804-812, November 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine). 551 JULY 1966 Women of Relief Society are guided by the spoken and written word of the General Authorities. 2. Reread the portion of this lesson which deals with Jesus, the Master Teacher. List several spiritual truths which may become teaching guides for you in influencing others for good and in teaching the gospel home. NOTE TO CLASS LEADER All ideas and illustrations appearing in this lesson contribute to the general objective. The class leader, however, may wish to emphasize some of them even to the exclusion of others as she adapts the lesson material to her particular group. In your CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family a Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 1—A Candle of Understanding "Light a candle of understanding in thine heart'' (2 Esdras). (Text: Out of the Best Books, Volume II: Love, Marriage, and the Family, Section 1) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: A woman of understanding tempers knowledge with compassion @ The Cultural Refinement lessons, as stated in the preview, have as their objective "the presentation of cultural and fine arts which will reflect and motivate the development of desirable attributes and characteristics to be emulated in the life of every Relief Society sister, that she may realize a cultural wholeness that will, in turn, be radiated in her home and benefit all members of her family."' The lesson should be approached and developed from this point of view. The selections which begin this year's course of study attempt 552 and sympathy with sensitivity. To provide insight into the understanding which is basic to most human relationships. "The Plaid Dress," by Edna St. Vincent Millay aids us in understanding ourselves; 'My Little Boy" examines parent-child relationships; ''Sixteen" continues a focus on general family understanding; and the Book of Ruth extends problems in understanding to those relatives who become part of the family through marriage. If the material in the lesson stresses understanding within the family, the concepts which are discussed are just as applicable to relationships which we establish with neighbors, friends, social acquaintances or business associates, for we are all part of the Lord's family. Keeping this in mind helps us temper our knowledge of human weakness with the compassion we ordinarily reserve for close relatives. Yet understanding is more than sympathy. We may feel rather strong emotional identification without committing ourselves to any positive action. Commiseration, in fact, may be attractively passive. Like the comforters of Job, we may find it easier to sit silently beside this object of our concern than to attempt the often frustrating task of understanding enough to be of positive help. Job's friends are anxious to weep for him, but not one of them really tries to understand the nature of Job's difficulty. When they finally do speak, they are so busy giving stock answers that they never get around to determining exactly what Job's problem is. Such sympathy needs to be completed by a sensitivity that brings comfort into focus. When sympathy and sensitivity are brought together, they turn into sensibility, that warm responsiveness that gives wholeness to our relationships. Loving support is both extended and received. We may be under few illusions about ourselves or the other members of our family, but our united strength seems equal to the tasks we face together. "THE PLAID DRESS'—EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY The opening stanza of 'The Plaid Dress" is one long question. LESSON DEPARTMENT _ As it builds, detail by detail, an implicit answer begins to take form. To begin with, souls don't bleach as easily as curtains, and even the suggestion that the "sun" can be thought of in a plural sense—as a source of light, warmth, even life itself (note that "bleach" requires a_ plural subject)—only reinforces the idea that we can't rely on the external to solve internal problems. The second stanza forces us to admit that we are responsible for ourselves. No pretense will really make a colored gown appear white, and conventional confession does not absolve us of guilt. The final four lines are almost despairing in their acceptance. CLASS DISCUSSION To what extent does the clothing of bad habits and attitudes; which "The Plaid Dress" exemplifies, reflect our own tasteless choice? Do we really want a new dress or just a Sunday coat to cover the daily plaid that is our usual costume? The impact of this poem is an emphatic one, but its message will depend on the attitudes we bring to this common realization of individual shortcomings. What seems to be Miss Millay's conclusion is that recognition of sin merely leads to resignation. It is "just the way we are." Yet this needn't be the resolution we take from these lines. We are responsible, but self-understanding need not forbid change. The comforting admonition of Isaiah—'"though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow' '—gives us confidence in our ability to repent. We needn't be hypocrites and pretend to be better than we are, but neither should we resign ourselves into thinking that our sins are an unchanging garment. "MY LITTLE BOY'—CARL EWALD There could be no better preparation for reading "My Little 553 JULY 1966 Boy" than singing such Primary songs as "I Am a Child of God," for the fresh insight which looking through a child's eyes provides, almost creates a new world. It is important to note, however, that we do not lose our adult perspective by trying to appreciate a child's reaction. What a work such as 'My Little Boy" does is to cut away the sham and pretense which mask so much of our adult behavior. Each member of the family grows in this book. The easy, grown-up assumption that all children are charmed by whimsy and makebelieve is clearly questioned in the opening section of this account. We are forced to ask ourselves how a child does learn when his parents are telling the truth and when they are "pretending." The childish promise of section VI suddenly takes on frightening —and family-wide—dimensions. Father and mother come to know themselves, and their teachings. If the mother seems overly cautious at this point, her balancing role is given its full weight in section XVII. Here it is the father who would protect his child. The mechanical, make-work activity that is characteristic of much elementary schooling distresses him, and he tries to warn his son against that which he will be facing. The child's mother is no less aware of possible loss, but she is far more aware of possible gain. School is necessary lest freedom turn into _ license. Conformity need not be degrading; it can be meaningful preparation for full obedience. The influence which any activity outside the home can have on a 554 child is controlled by attitudes set in the home. The explicit preparation which family understanding can provide for the world outside the home is effectively presented in the account which describes a youngster's first contact with economics. Note how the father lets his son learn economic principles. One of the hallmarks of a house of understanding is that its members not only are told; they learn. As tenderly presented in 'My Little Boy," a home is the place in which both parents and children mature. CLASS DISCUSSION Are the child's responses in "My Little Boy" too simple? How much should circumstances alter basic attitudes? What would you suggest as an important concept which the little boy taught his father? "SIXTEEN''—JESSAMYN WEST "Sixteen" offers hope to the mother of teenagers. Although only implied in the story, part of the strain between daughter and parents here is Cress' refusal to allow a point of view that differs from her own. This is casually but clearly stated in the author's comment that Cress "lived inside a world so absolutely fitted to her own size and shape that she felt any intrusions... To be unmerited invasions of her privacy." Cress' actions support this thesis at every point. The light-hearted conversations she exchanges with Edwin is simply a recital of her reactions. The girls with whom she lives are described as "eating out of her hand." But the detail that reveals Cress most clearly to us is her comment on the col- lege gardener: '"He's old," she told Edwin. "He doesn't exist." It is a tribute to Miss West's skill that such a comment sounds less cruel than sad in the context in which we find it. We don't dislike Cress so much as we feel sorry for her. She is so deliberately poverty-stricken! In reducing her world to the here, the now, and the personal, she appears to be nearer six than sixteen. Because she obviously is a sensitive, intelligent girl, however, we do not lose hope. Surely something will happen that will help her 'put away childish things." What does happen is the satisfying point of the story. We begin to see a little change when she must face Edwin's_ unexpected disapproval of her decision not to return home. "Why Edwin!" is all she can say. Her usual flippant comment is shocked out of her. For a moment she must look at herself through another's eyes, and the image is unsettling. Although she quickly becomes resentful and self-centered again, there is an unmistakable crack in the wall which surrounds her world. It is not a sudden acknowledgment of duty or feeling of concern that leads Cress to the mature insight of her final comments, however. It is the overwhelming realization that it is not age which divides us, or youth which unites us, but a Shared love for the beautiful which ties heart to heart. In understanding her grandfather, in seeing that he is "just like me," Cress has opened her life to love which must be extended as well as received. In asking her parents LESSON NEPARTMENT why they didn't tell her this, Cress is both exasperating and appealingly adolescent. She has not had ears to hear or eyes to see before. CLASS DISCUSSION What evidence is there, when we first meet Cress, that she is capable of becoming the girl we see at the end of 'Sixteen'? What has Cress really found out at the end of this story? If the parents are too close to be heard, the grandfather is at just the right distance. Through him, Cress can see herself with that combination of identification and detachment that brings a distorted image into focus. It is this sense of larger but still close world, that the extended family of grandparents, uncles, aunts, and cousins provides. In understanding generated at this level, there is a secure link with the known, yet a meaningful transfer to the world outside the home. In contemplating such relationships, we might well ask ourselves such questions as these: Am I providing opportunity for my children to experience the growth that association with grandparents provides? Am I guilty of feeling, possibly in less obvious form than Cress', resentment for age? How do we reach below the superficial and temporary to find the eternal values which can unite all ages? THE BOOK OF RUTH The final selection for this month, the Book of Ruth, is rarely appreciated for the wholesome love which it exemplifies. Some critics feel that this is really Naomi's story, for it begins and ends with her. After five skillful verses, this account has set the stage, established background, and presented the problem which will dominate the story. Bereft of her husband and sons, Naomi decides to return to her ancestral home. As her daughters-in-law prepare to accompany her, Naomi gently 555 JULY 1966 suggests that they remain behind. When they protest their determination to go with her, Naomi tries to let them see how hopeless their situation would be in Bethlehem-Judah. She _reminds them of the improbability of her having more sons, and most unlikely of all, the girls being willing to wait until additional sons grew up. (See Deuteronomy 25:5-10.) In this scene, so rarely commented upon, we see Naomi's tender concern for and understanding of two girls who are so dear to her that she will send them away in order that they may have normal, fulfilled lives. In fact, the depth of Naomi's love for her daughters-in-law helps her understand Ruth's devotion. The real meaning of this devotion, however, does not become evident until the two women are in Bethlehem. When Ruth suggests that she glean in order to support them, we begin to see that Ruth's concern for Naomi is as practical as it is intense. It is worthy of note that what impresses Boaz most, when he first meets Ruth, is her blameless life and dedication to Naomi. When Ruth comes home with an astonishing amount of grain, Naomi _ realizes that someone must have helped her. ENRICHMENT THROUGH PAINTING When Boaz agrees to do "all that [Ruth] requirest," we know that he realizes the part he must play in this family drama and is not reluctant to participate. Naomi's anxiety and hope are evident in her question to Ruth when she returns: "Who art thou, my daughter?" In other words, "Are you the future Mrs. Boaz? Did it work?" Boaz surely realizes who suggested Ruth's course of action, for he gives her six measures of barley and the understanding comment: ''Go not empty unto thy mother in law." Near the end of this account (which manages to achieve some suspense in spite of the fact that there are no villains to thwart) when Ruth bears a son, the neighbor women praise Ruth to Naomi saying, 'for thy daughter in law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath born him." (Ruth 4:15.) The neighbors also decide on a name for the little boy and in their excitement declare that there is ''a son born to Naomi." CLASS DISCUSSION It has been suggested that unhappy families are unhappy in many ways, but that all happy families are happy in the same way. Comment on this in the light of the conclusion to the Book of Ruth. In connection with the literature presented in this lesson, and as an enrichment of cultural refinement through the arts, the beautiful painting "The Gleaners," by Millet (The Relief Society Magazine for June 1966, page 446) is to be studied. Note the discussion of the painting by Professor Floyd Breinholt on the page opposite the painting. 556 UNFINISHED BUSINESS Amy Hillyard Jensen When we brought our sixth baby home from the hospital, our elder children were delighted with her. But our four-year-old son Eric found a small fault. '"'Mama,"' he asked me one morning, ''Why didn't Heavenly Father finish making the baby?" "Why, honey, what do you mean? Heavenly Father did finish making the baby!"' "'No he didn't,"' Eric insisted. '""She doesn't have any teeth."' This became a family joke, one that | often retell. But it started me thinking. Aren't we sometimes like the child whose knowledge is so limited that he can't understand much of what's happening around him? It was easy to explain to Eric that our new baby really did have teeth, but that we couldn't see them yet. In Heavenly Father's own time, they would cut through the surface of her gums, just when she was ready to use them. But it isn't so easy for us to explain some of the other mysteries of life. What do we tell a friend who has lost a beloved child? Are we able still to acknowledge the Lord's wisdom when a valiant struggle ends in apparent failure? Can we look at a situation that appears ugly and forbidding and believe that good will eventually come of it if living in righteousness? Sometimes it's hard to do. But, as the years pass, we begin to realize that all of life is built on growth and change—that the Lord doesn't leave any of his creations ''unfinished."' If given the proper food and care, the infant will eventually grow not one, but two sets of teeth. Given sunshine and rain, the withered bulb will eventually bloom as a scarlet tulip. Nourished by faith and prayer, a shattered hope will someday become the foundation for undreamed of blessings. PATCHWORK QUILT Marian F. Apedaile Life is becoming more and more like a patchwork quilt. We add a piece as we live each day. The thing to do is make each piece as pretty as possible, so that when we leave this life, we will be remembered by the beautiful pieces we have left behind. MORNING BY THE SEA Sylvia Probst Young On softly rolling water, morning sun Flecked golden, gently rides toward the land, And white fringed wavelets, fingering the shore, Leave etchings traced in silver on the sand. Far in the distance, where the blue meets blue, A ship's hull rises, phantom like... The cry Of soaring seagull breaks the solitude, In this vast world of sand and sea and sky; This quiet world where fear and vain regret Are lost to me—at this lone oceanside, | walk and feel a power, infinite, With time eternal—constancy of tide, And life beginning new at each sunrise— Beyond the reach of sea | lift my eyes. 557 COOK ELEC? RIC ses Pots and pans stay ''white glove'' clean If it's electric, it's better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY HILL CUMORAH TOURS July 1966 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 23 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 2] SOUTHERN PARKS Labor Day Tour September 3 NEW ENGLAND—CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 SUMMERTIME Margory E. Green Farnham, Surrey, England | find no words which will describe The beauty of the countryside; The sweet wild flowers greet my eye And sparkling streams flow gently by The shady woods and valleys green Add splendor to this lovely scene. My heart beats faster as | gaze At greenest trees, And summer haze fills the meadows With a shroud Like silvery billows on a cloud. So perfect is creation fair, A glorious garden blooming there. A paradise of beauty rare Free! For all mankind to share. Such beauty lightens every heart. Peace forever to impart. | pray ail living souls will share These gifts from God's creation fair. 558 Lobo" Fine Quality Nylon Tricot QUILTING MATERIAL in 12 colors ote For sample and information write Leber 2511 South West Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 Tour the Holy Land This Fall Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES OCTOBER lith Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. You are assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers. Bs and superb accommodations in the finest hotels all at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost L. D. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. MURDOCK TRAVEL [RN eeoeoaeveevneeveeneeeeeeeeeeeeeeveeeeeereeneee ee eeeeeetePeveevses ese e@eeseeoevoevseeveeeeeeevseeneseeseeoeeaeeeeoeeee eo 8@ MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. A. Rr? | > Sie HAWAII Flying both ways or Ship one way July 12 — August 12 September 3 — October 15 November 18 ROSE PARADE and HAWAIIAN TOUR CANADIAN and NORTHEASTERN STATES TOUR September PAGEANT TOURS July 23 — 27 Days July 16 — 16 Days AIR TOUR TO PAGEANT PAGEANT and BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR July 18 — 23 Days Ask about Rose Parade Tour ALASKA — JUNE 1967 MEXICO IN FALL Reservations made individually on ship, airplane, train, bus, and hotel reservations also made. Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 328-8981 — 467-5763 — 485-2444 R. S. July 66 @Macoeceoeoevoeacadceceaoepeeoeneeo es e928 e288 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 -1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8...1.20 Zone 5.80 (a = $ — = DESERET PR_EwS PRESS 559 Liithday Con asl 1 Mrs. Sally Quachmana rooney Polacca, Arizona Mrs. Sarah Luella Scovil ji« Hendricksen Claremont, Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. I F he: TH Mrs. Eva Christena Ottesen Evans _ Rupert, Idaho 9 Mrs. Elizabeth Diana Merritt Bleazard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Fulling Luthy Wagner Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Chapman Richey Tucson, Arizona Mrs. Magdalene Schoenfeld Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Amelia Jensen Topham Parowan, Utah Mrs. Estella Cole Cordon 'Ogden, Utah d' Mrs. Clara Ann Ashcroft Martin ¥Y Salt Lake City, Utah FELT-BOARD PICTURE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Flannel Mountains, outlined Sharply, cling to blue felt. Torn white tissue paper clouds patch This sky. 560 Foil 7 ] r% Re é. ~*~ | ie am ra Te ri lye; 5; & 3 i a: oo; 2 a 5 Aes Nex | 2 | ' 4. Co LJ 4 3 I: 4 Ee i ~~! | = | ™ | =; my ¢ seme: ' i: } |; f:; rt Saad ft. SaRPR BFE wre i oa | oun 65 a i. Et by Joseph Fielding Smith $2.95 A worthy addition to the four previous volumes in the series. Volume V contains a complete appendix listing alphabetically all the questions answered in this and previous volumes. Here's why you'll want Volume V of Answers to Gospel Questions; President Smith discusses, among other topics, these vital subjects: ¢ Adam is not the Father of Jesus Christ * Use of Cola Drinks and Playing Games of Chance * Was the Apostle Paul Married? * What is the Meaning of First Death? ¢ Organic Evolution and the Age of Man ¢ Why Do We Not Observe Good Friday? THE LITTLE THINGS by Mirla Greenwood Thayne $2.50 The little things in life are among the sweetest — and Mirla Greenwood Thayne has a joyous time recalling for us the humble, everyday little things that make our lives a pleasure. Her sensitive and well written recollections of Relief Society service will make this a treasured volume for all Latter-day Saint women. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 777 South Main Street Orange, California 92669 Utah residents please add 342% sales tax when ordering from Salt Lake City store. California residents please add 4% when ordering from Orange store. Send me Volume V of Answers to Gospel Questions R. S. JULY seseeeee The Little Things! Enclose check / money order for total cost, plus tax where appropriate. Or, charge my account. T Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 