 The. Cabin "stands abandoned, silent -now, No cheery bustle marring its repose. Yet it seems waiting, tistening somehow For voices that it knew. It seems to doze Fitfully, for soon — it must surely be!— Footsteps will tramp the brushy path once more, And from its ancient hiding place the key 'Be brought, and the door grate wide on a sandy floor. But now the waiting hours bring only these: Leaf-brown birds that twitter all day long About small painted houses in the trees, Hung there when the cabin, too, knew song. Its windows are boarded, blind to sun and moon. But the wrens return! And surely, some day soon. The Cover: § Road In Autumn Transparency by Lucien B. Brown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: @ Cabin in the Canyon, Provo River, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: @ Dick Scopes IIlustrations: § Mary Scopes | want you to know that we did enjoy the poem ''Place of Prayer,'' by Marilyn McMeen Miller (May 1966). We have read and enjoyed other poems which she has written. Mrs. W. Lloyd Adams Rexburg, Idaho | feel especially grateful for the Magazine today, because, as | was reading it, | thought of the letter we received from our son Spence who is serving in the Guatemala-E! Salvador Mission. In response to my letter of last spring, telling him that The Relief Society Magazine would be printed in Spanish, beginning with the June issue, he said: "Mother, the sisters down here are so anxious and happy that they are going to have The Relief Society Magazine printed in Spanish. They have never had anything like it, and can't even imagine what it will be like to have access to the Magazine.'' Ann P. Lloyd, President Bannock Stake Relief Society Central, Idaho | have received the Spanish Relief Society Magazine (for June 1966). Congratulations on the truly adequate translation. This is a difficult thing to do to duplicate an English version of a magazine. You have done a superb work. Wilma Logan Hutchinson, Kansas | live about 500 air miles from the nearest Latter-day Saints Church here in the Philippines, so you can imagine how we miss the wonderful companionship and inspiration of our usual work in a ward. | have been receiving the wonderful Relief Society Magazine and its messages of love and inspiration make me feel closer to the Church. | loan my Magazine to those who are interested, and they are thrilled with the messages from its pages. Louise A. Bell Diatagon, Surigao Del Sur Mindanao, Philippine Islands 722 Sister Taylor's ''Three Women" (May 1966, by Celestia J. Taylor) was a choice article, and | thought of my dear, sweet grandmothers, and my mother, dear soul. | liked ''Look for the Small Clues'' (by Kaye T. Roberts) and ''Much of Worth—The Relief Society Magazine"' (by Mabel L. Anderson). The story ''The Old Stove" (by Lael J. Littke) brought back true and fond memories. Next, | noted the record of our dear Glendale Stake—so high on the Magazine Honor Roll. Today, the May issue was written only for me. Ofa Winward Schimmer Glendale, California Today there came to my home a sweet messenger—tThe Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. It thrilled me to hold it in my hands, as | had been hoping for a long time to be able to read it when | saw it in English, and now it is possible for all the Spanishspeaking women to enjoy the benefits of such a_ beautiful Magazine. For many years | belonged to the Rosario Centro Branch Relief Society in Argentina, and now being able to read the Magazine here in Salt Lake City, it seems to me that | am closer to them, because we now have something in common to unite us—The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. Claudina E. H. Guzman Salt Lake City, Utah | always enjoy the Magazine, especially the stories by Lael J. Littke. | am sure her story ''The Old Stove'' (May 1966) brought back much nostalgia to many who read it. To me it brought tears, and | hope to many who know Lael— the dozens who have been in their kitchen by the old stove. It is not an easy thing to leave those mountains and creeks and apple trees—even if you didn't have Old Hirschvogel! A special thanks from one uprooted Mink Creeker to another for this special story. Brucia Crane Hazelton, Idaho 

Magazine The Relief Society Volume 53 October 1966 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp. Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 724 Strength Through Obedience Thomas S. Monson 729 Seed Corn Elsie Sim Hansen Fiction 731 Roses—Tomorrow Sylvia Probst Young 740 The Good Samaritan Becky Dawn Wood 743 The Complex Kathryn E. Franks 766 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 4 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 722 From Near and Far 736 Editorial: "With Their Concentrated Efforts" Marianne C. Sharp 738 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 739 LaRue H. Rosell Resigns From the General Board 772 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out "Let Thy Food be Prepared with Singleness of Heart,' Helen Seymour, 749; Let's Make Strawberry Jam, Ida A. Isaacson, 752; How to Sew Nylon Tricot, Ethel Maturale, 752; Crepe Paper Costumes, Shirley Thulin, 753; A Patch of Dirt, Vera Stocker, 755; A Country Walk, Joyce R. Gillming, 756; Life's Entanglements, Amy G. Bond, 757; The Climber, Helen Hinckley Jones, 758; Our Children Earn Their Allowances, Helen M. Peterson, 760; Speak to People, Patricia Middleton Faas, 763; Recipe for Punch Base, Caroline Asay, 763; Hints for Homemaking, Juy Houtz Woolley, 764; Hestella Kuttler Creates Beauty with Crochet Hook and Knitting Needles, 765. Lesson Department 779 Spiritual Living—How to Act Amid Persecution Roy W. Doxey 785 Visiting Teacher Message—''Ask and Ye Shall Receive' Alice Colton Smith 786 Homemaking—Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Celestia J. Taylor 789 Social Relations—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen 794 Cultural Refinement—Humility Yields Strength Robert K. Thomas Poetry 721 The Cabin in the Canyon Ethel Jacobson Offering for Peace, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 727; Tree House, Alda L. Brown, 728; In Your Name, Dorothy J. Roberts, 730; Afternoon of a Small Boy, Margery S. Stewart, 735; How Wonderful, Lela Morris, 739; Unto the Heart, Linnie F. Robinson, 742; My Heart Would Break, Maude O. Cook, 747; Homecoming, Enid F. Woolley, 748; The Blessing, Catherine B. Bowles, 756; From a Mother's Heart, Kathryn Kay, 759; A Lullaby, Christie Lund Coles, 759; The Golden Grain, Gladys Hesser Burnham, 762; Jeweled Trap, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 763; Serenity, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 764; A Box of Days, Dorothy O. Rea, 771; The Open Door, Verda F. Welch, 798. 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.  

PASS In today's world, the accent is on youth. Everyone wants to look young, feel young, and be young. No one seems to prefer old age. Indeed, vast sums of money are expended each year for products which will hopefully restore the youthful look. Well might we ask ourselves, "Is the search for youth new to our day, our generation?" We need but to thumb the pages of history to find our answer. Centuries ago in that great age of exploration, expeditions were outfitted and ships containing confident and adventurous crews set sail upon uncharted seas in search of a literal "fountain of youth." The legend of the day rumored that somewhere in the great beyond there was a magical fountain containing the purest of water. All one had to do to regain the vibrancy of youth and to perpetuate this vigor was to drink deeply of the flowing waters from this fountain. 724 Elder Thomas S. Monson of The Council of the Twelve + Ponce de Leon, who sailed wi Columbus, made _— subseque voyages of exploration in! Trust of the legend that thi youthful elixir could be fou somewhere among the Bahar Islands. His efforts, like those o many others, yielded no such discovery. For, in the divine p of our God, we enter mortal existence and taste of youth but once. Although there is no "fountain of youth" which we may wisely seek, there is another fountain containing more precious water, even the waters of eternal life. Such is the "fountain of truth." The poet captured the real significance of the search for truth when he wrote these immortal lines: Oh say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize To which mortals or Gods can aspire; Go search in the depths where it glittering lies Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies. *Tis an aim for the noblest desire. Then say, what is truth? 'Tis the last and the first, For the limits of time it steps o'er. Though the heavens depart and the earth's fountains burst, Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, Eternal, unchanged, evermore. ("Oh say, What Is Truth?" from Hymns, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 143.) In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in May of 1933, the Lord declared: truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come. The spirit of truth is of God. He [Jesus] received a fulness of truth... And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things (D&C 93:24, 26- 28). No need for you or me in this enlightened age, when the fulness of the gospel has been restored, to sail uncharted seas or travel unmarked roads in search of the "fountain of truth." For a loving Heavenly Father has plotted our course and provided an unfailing map — obedience. His revealed word vividly describes the blessings which obedience brings and the inevitable heartache and despair that accompany the traveler who detours along the forbidden pathways of sin and error. To a generation steeped in the tradition of animal sacrifice, Samuel boldly declared: "... To obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams" (I Samuel 15:22). The prophets, ancient and modern, have known the strength that comes through obedience. STRENGTH THROUGH OBEDIENCE Think of Nephi: "... I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded..."" (I Nephi 3:7). Or Alma's beautiful description of the strength possessed by the sons of Mosiah: _ they had waxed strong in a knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God (Alma 17:2, 8). President David O. McKay, in his opening message to the membership of the Church at a general conference (April 1957) stated very simply and yet so powerfully, "Keep the commandments of God." Such was the burden of our Savior's message, when he declared: "For all who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world" (D&C 1382:5). No one can criticize the Master's instruction. His very actions give credence to his words. He demonstrated genuine love of God by living the perfect life; by honoring the sacred mission that was his. Never was he haughty. Never was he puffed up with pride. Never was he disloyal. Ever was he humble. Ever was he sincere. Ever was he true. Though he was led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by that master of deceit, even the devil; though he was 725 OCTOBER 1966 physically weakened from fasting forty days and forty nights and was an hungered; yet when the evil one proffered Jesus the most alluring and tempting proposals, he gave to us a divine example of obedience by refusing to deviate from what he knew was right. When faced with the agony of Gethsemane, where he endured such pain that his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground, he exemplified the obedient Son by saying, "... Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42). To Peter at Galilee, Jesus said, "Follow me." To Philip came the same instruction, "Follow me." And to the publican, Levi, who was sitting at receipt of customs, came the beckoning call, "Follow me."' Even to one who came running after him, one who had great possessions, came the _ words, "Follow me." And to you and to me that same voice, this same Jesus says, "Follow me." Are we willing to obey? Obedience is a hallmark of prophets, but it should be realized that this source of strength is available to us today. One who had learned well the lesson of obedience, who had found the 'fountain of truth," was a kind and sincere man of humble means and_ circumstances. He had _ joined the Church in Europe and, by diligently saving and sacrificing, had emigrated to North America — to a new land, a strange language, different customs, but the same Church under the leadership of the same Lord whom he trusted and obeyed. He became 726 the branch president of a little flock of struggling saints in a somewhat unfriendly city of tens of thousands. He followed the program of the Church, although members were few and _ tasks were many. He set an example for his branch membership that was truly Christ-like, and they responded with a love so rarely seen. He earned a living with his hands as a tradesman. His means were limited, but he always paid more than a tenth of his total earnings as tithing. He started a missionary fund in his little branch, and for months at a time he was the only contributor. When there were missionaries in his city he fathered and fed them, and they never left his house without some tangible donation to their work and welfare. Church members from far away who passed through his city and visited his branch always received his hospitality and the warmth of his spirit and went on their way knowing they had met an unusual man, one of the Lord's obedient servants. Those who presided over him received his profound respect and his extra special care. To him they were emissaries of the Lord; their wish was his command. He ministered to their physical comforts and was especially solicitous in his prayers, which were frequent, for their welfare. One Sabbath day, some visiting officials to his branch participated with him in no fewer than a dozen prayers in various meetings and visits to members. They left him at the day's end with a feeling of exhilaration and spiritual uplift which kept them joyous throughout a four-hour drive in wintry weather and which 'now, after many years, warms the spirit and quickens the heart in retrospection. Men of learning, men of experience sought out this humble, unlettered man of God and counted themselves fortunate if they could spend an hour with him. His appearance was ordinary, his English was halting and somewhat difficult to understand, his home was _ unpretentious. He didn't own a car or a television, he wrote no books and preached no polished sermons and did none of the things to which the world usually pays attention. Yet the faithful beat a path to his door. Why? Because they wished to drink at his "fountain of truth'; not so much what he said as what he did; not the substance of the sermons he preached, but the strength of the life he led. To know that a poor man consistently and cheerfully gave at least twice a tenth to the Lord gave one a clearer insight into STRENGTH THROUGH OBEDIENCE the true meaning of tithing. To see him minister to the hungered and take in the stranger made one know that he did it as he would do so to the Master. To pray with him and partake of his confidence of divine intercession was to experience a new medium of communication. Well could it be said he kept the first and great commandment, and the second which is like unto it, that his bowels were full of charity toward all men, that virtue' garnished his thoughts unceasingly and, consequently, his confidence waxed strong in the presence of God. This man had the glow of goodness and the radiance of righteousness. His strength came from obedience. The strength which we earnestly seek today to meet the challenges of a complex and changing world can be ours when, with fortitude and resolute courage, we stand and declare with Joshua, "... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord" (Joshua 24:15). OFFERING FOR PEACE Mabel Jones Gabbott Then Moses came when it was dark and still, Before the sun had tipped the jagged peak Of Sinai, and day was but a streak Of pink, and built an altar near the hill; And made an offering for peace, to fill The measure of the law. He came to seek Forgiveness for his people's wrong and speak In their behalf, that they would do God's will. And now before the lucent heavens trace The dawn, | humbly kneel. O Lord, impart Thy peace to me; and seeking to erase My sin from memory's sand, I, too, will chart Thy law upon my mountain, learn thy grace, And, penitent, will write it on my heart. 727 DOROTHY J. ROBERTS 728 TREE HOUSE Alda L. Brown Let your unleashed dreams run rampant In that house of yours So high, secluded—your world alone. And let your boundless fancies Unlimited soar For today you are a Conqueror! A King upon a throne! Let saw and hammer loud proclaim The zeal with which you work. Let every part of your domain Reveal your gifted art! For too soon there will be a brand-new dream With a grown-up blue-print plan — Combined with all this energy That will make my son. A man! Autumn had already etched the countryside in gold and red, the Saturday morning I went to visit my Grandfather and Grandmother Hendersen on their farm. I found my grandfather busy husking corn out in the barn. Thinking it looked like fun, and that I might get an opportunity to hear another one of grandfather's pioneer stories, I asked, "Grandpa, how about letting me help you?" With a twinkle in his blue eyes, grandpa said, "Sure you can, Susie. Get one of those apple boxes over there in the corner, so you will have something to sit on, and I will show you how to pull the husks off." I had been visiting with grandfather for only a few minutes, when I saw him single out an ear of com and, after removing the Elsie Sim Hansen husk, he turned the ear over and over several times, and _ then, walking over to the barn door, where the sun was shining in, he adjusted his glasses and examined the ear again. When he returned he placed the ear in a small box. He tossed the other ears we had husked into a bin. I looked puzzled for a moment, and then I said, "Grandpa, why did you examine that ear of corn so carefully?' Grandpa looked serious for a moment. "'My eyesight isn't as good as it could be, and I can't take any chance of not putting good corn in this box. This is my seed corn." "What makes seed com?" I asked. "I can't see any difference in the corn." Grandpa put his hand on my shoulder. 'I can see you wouldn't make much of a farmer, Susie. Seed corn must not have any blemishes of any kind, no worms, no dry rot, and no mold." I looked at the ear I had in my hand for a second, and then I asked, "Grandpa, is there something wrong with this ear?" Grandpa took the ear and, 729 OCTOBER 1966 after looking at it for a moment, he answered, '"'See, here is a small kernel that has dry rot at the bottom." "But the spot is so tiny I can't see that it would make any difference after the corn was planted in the ground, as the old seed rots anyway, doesn't it?" "Yes, Susie, it does, but not before it sends up tiny new shoots like the parent seed. If the parent seed has blemishes, the new corn will probably have some also." "Why does all this corn in the bin have flaws, Grandpa, when you are so careful about the kind you plant?" Grandpa stood up straight and stretched as he spoke, "It is almost impossible to get perfect seed, Susie. I was also in a hurry when I sprayed the com the first time last spring. I didn't wait until the proper time when there wasn't any wind. Some of the spray was carried away where it couldn't do any good. That is what happens when we become impatient. It takes a lot of patience to be a good farmer." "T guess it takes a lot of patience to be a good mother and father doesn't it, Grandpa? I heard mother tell daddy that David and I would try the patience of Job." Grandpa chuckled as he sat down, "'Yes, Susie, it does take a lot of patience to do anything worthwhile in this life, farming or rearing a family." Grandpa looked at me and his gaze held mine, as I said, "Grandpa, would you say that daddy and mother were good seed?" Grandpa _ looked _ surprised. "'What makes you ask a question like that, Susie?" "You said a few minutes ago that if the parent seed was good, the new plant would be, also, and David and I sure do have a lot of flaws in us. Daddy and mother haven't any spray that they can use on us either." For a moment I thought grandpa was going to laugh at me, as his mouth quirked at the comers, but he didn't. He just said, "Yes, I think your parents are very good seed, Susie, and I used quite a number of fine sprays on your mother when she was growing up, not liquid sprays like I use on the corn, but the kind that is most useful on people." I stopped husking corn and looked up at grandpa with a feeling of relief, ""What kind of spray did you use? I don't think I have ever heard of any." Grandpa looked around me and out the barn door, as if he was trying to remember, and then he said thoughtfully, "Faith and prayer were the two I used most frequently. Understanding, and a sense of humor, self-control, and good hard work I used often. Sometimes, when one wouldn't work, I would try a combination of them all, and everything would turn out fine." IN YOUR NAME Dorothy J. Roberts | took the petaled summer in your name, Who sowed me with the seeds of your own strength; And since you taught me once to walk through flame | need not fear this lonely autumn's length. 730 Roses — Tomorrow Sylvia Probst Young With loving care Marian spaded the hard, sunbaked soil around each aster plant. Beside her the warm fingers of a morning breeze played lightly in her hair, and brought the sweet smell of blossoming locust and rose. Beauty was everywhere, and it was good to be alive on such a day and to; work in a garden. According to Paul she was a greenthumber. "Anything you stick in the ground will, al grow," he had often ' said. 9 wn _, "eas 4 we ad 7H ws — alae - x. —s, x aé wy - +n are PORE are Paul would be at the hospital now. He had left early—before she was awake. Probably he had breakfasted there as he so often did. Going early was part of his life as a doctor. Some mornings she was awake and would make his breakfast before he left, but if she was asleep, he would slip out quietly. It was a pattern he had established during the first years of their marriage, when her health had been so poor, and he had wanted to let her get as much rest as she could. But she had never liked to eat alone, and it seemed that the day was always better when she could visit with Paul for a few minutes at its beginning. "Hi!" A small girl on a tricycle 731 OCTOBER 1966 wheeled across the yard, and Marian looked up from her digging to smile at the honey-blond youngster, who was proudly displaying a new pink denim play dress. "Hello there, Sue,' Marian greeted her little neighbor, "what a pretty new dress." "My mama bought it yesterday at Handley's," the child announced with pride. "Do you have any cookies?" "Oh, I think so," Marian answered cheerily. 'Soon as I'm finished here, we'll go in and find some for you." "You had better go in now," the little girl told her, ''because the phone is ringing." Sve was right, and Marian dropped her trowel, with a promise to return with a treat. '"Mother!"' The voice on the other end of the line was a little plaintive. ""Where have you been? I've let the phone ring and ring." "Oh, Sheri, hello, dear! I was out weeding my asters, and I got so busy with it, I didn't hear." "Well, I called to say, happy anniversary, and to remind you and Daddy that you're coming up for dinner tonight. You hadn't forgotten, had you?" "Not really, but I've hardly seen your father for a week. It seems that he gets busier as the days go by — there are so many people in hospitals these days. But how are you, dear?" "Fine. [I'm going to Relief Society in a few minutes. It's homemaking meeting day, and we're doing a quilt. The boys have gone with Tom to the field. I gave them a lunch to take along." "They'll like that." 732 "Oh, yes, and they took their fishing poles, too, so they should have fun at the creek.... Well, I'd better go, Mom. Do you think you can be here by 6:30?" "We should if we leave at 5:30. Your father is going to be at the hospital all day, but he should be home by five. Thanks, dear, we'll see you then." As she hung up the phone, Marian thought of their anniversary. She hadn't really remembered it, and Paul hadn't either, or he would have said so. A doctor's life was so busy, day and night. She looked around her spotless, electric kitchen. They were financially well fixed now, but there had been a time when things were quite different. The years, thirty of them since she had been a bride, had brought joy and sorrows. How well she remembered the time she first saw Paul. It was at a Christmas dance in Clarksdale. She was a teacher there, and he had come home from medical school for the holidays. They had been immediately attracted to each other, and he had convinced her to stay in Clarksdale for Christmas. Then romance had flowered through letters after that. On two or three special ocasions Paul had managed to get home for a week-end, and by the end of the school year, he had asked her to marry him. They were married while he was interning, and when he was ready to go into private practice he had chosen to go home to Clarksdale and be a country doctor. There was only old Doctor Tippetts in Clarksdale then, and he was nearing seventy. "Tt's where I feel I belong, for b awhile anyway," he explained, '"'and they need me." How much they needed him! In Paul's office now there was a picture he had found in a magazine, a picture of a doctor on a winter night, his car left on the road, plowing on foot through a snowy lane to get to a lonely farmhouse. "Tt couldn't be more you if a photographer had taken it,'"' she mused, when he showed it to her. He smiled, agreeing. "The big old house on the hill — exactly like Jensen's and me going up there through the snow to doctor their croupy twins." There had been four feet of snow that winter in Clarksdale, and it seemed as if two-thirds of the population had been sick and needed a doctor. Paul was gone all hours of the day and night. At first she would wait up for him, but when she was expecting the baby he made her promise to go to bed. THE role of a doctor's wife was a lonely one, and the anticipation of a baby brought gladness to both of them. They both loved children and had decided that they wanted a big family. But they were to have only one little girl. Sheri, however, was the sunshine of their lives. "We couldn't be happier if we had a dozen," Paul had said so many times, as his dark eyes loved the small, sunny-haired moppet. When Sheri was five, Paul had a wonderful opportunity to go into practice with an established doctor he had known in school days. For Marian, city bred, who had never liked the cold, dreary winters of Clarksdale, it was the ROSES—TOMORROW chance of a lifetime. Paul, she knew, had loved his little home town, and if he had thought only of himself they might still have been there, but always Sheri and she were his first consideration. Now his practice had grown until it was almost too big to handle. In Clarksdale he would always have been a small town country doctor, but here on the staff of Pineview Hospital he had grown and progressed, until last year he had been made chief of staff. Financially, they had _ no worries, and Paul, with the love of the country a vital part of him, had bought a farm just outside of Clarksdale. When Sheri and Tom were married they moved out to run it, and whenever possible Paul and she spent time there with Sheri's little boys, riding and fishing—all of the things an outdoor man loved. A gentle knocking turned Marian's attention to Susie and the cookies, but her thoughts were on their anniversary. Paul usually sent roses to her. Maybe he had forgotten, but maybe he hadn't — the day was still young. As she opened the door, Susie's mother, who always reminded her of Sheri, came across the yard. "This child of mine is a positive beggar," the younger woman pronounced with exasperation. Marian laughed. "I love her, Pat. We don't see Sheri's boys near often enough, and I enjoy Susie so much." The other sighed. ''Life's funny, isn't it? Most of the time my three have me in a tizzy, and I'm envying you your peace and quiet. I guess we're never quite satisfied." "And we all have so much to 733 OCTOBER 1966 be satisfied with,"' Marian philosophized. She thought about it after her neighbor had gone and a warm feeling filled her heart. Paul would be home at five, they would go to Sheri's, and that would make the day perfect. When the weeding was finished she hurried into the house. She would finish the swirl she had started for Sheri. That would be a nice surprise. And then she would drive over to Center Street and get some orange sticks for the boys. The time went quickly, but by four o'clock the swirl was finished, carefully pressed, and gaily wrapped, and the orange sticks were waiting to be given to three eager little boys. Now she would shower and be ready, so that she could help Paul when he came. At quarter to five the phone rang. "Mrs. Markham, this is the hospital calling," a crisp feminine voice announced. "Doctor Markham asked me to call you. There's © been a terrible accident — four teenagers, in critical condition. The doctor's in surgery now; doesn't know when he'll be home." Disappointment and a sudden resentment filled Marian's being. A doctor's life was never really his own, not even on an anniversary. I ought to be resigned to this kind of thing, she thought. Leaving a note by the kitchen sink, she picked up her packages and went out to the car. She would go alone. She had had to do so many things alone so many times. Afternoon shadows lay in cool patterns along the road, a quiet calm filled the air; and, as she 734 drove along, the resentment disappeared. Paul would have wanted to go with her more than anything else, she knew that, but he was a dedicated physician, and she was proud that he was. "We are never quite satisfied," her neighbor had said. And, thinking about it, she concluded that surely satisfaction was the product of selflessness, and selflessness was a labor of love. THE sun was low in the western sky when Marian arrived at the farm where Sheri and her family were waiting, with dinner ready. "Isn't Grandpa coming?" The boys were keenly disappointed. Sheri, too, was deflated. '""We never can count on Daddy," she exclaimed, "and it's been this way as long as I can remember. He'd be called out of a show or a concert or a party, or he'd have an operation and couldn't go. Don't you get really sick of it, Mother?" Marian smiled gently. "Your father'belongs to a vast group of dedicated, unselfish people, Sheri. There are bishops and Relief Society presidents, stake presidents, and all of the General Authorities of the Church. They're all on call, you know. Your father has taken an oath of honor, we wouldn't be proud of him if he didn't live up to it." "T know that," Sheri conceded, "but this was quite a special day, Mother."' "Well, let's be happy, knowing that he would like to be here if he could," Tom reasoned.... "And how about eating? We're all starved." Sheri had baked chicken and new peas and potatoes from the garden, along with young, green onions, icicle radishes, and tiny carrots. She served dinner on the patio, and Marian couldn't remember when she had enjoyed a meal quite so much. The charm of the country twilight stole softly around them. From the meadow below came the call of a night bird and the croaking of frogs. Marian was loath to go. "But I didn't tell your father I was going to stay," she explained, when they protested. She had started to the car when the ringing of the telephone from inside interrupted. "It could be Daddy."' Sheri ran to answer it. When she returned moments later, she was smiling. "Dad can always make me feel happy, no matter what," she said, "'and he wants to talk to you, Mom." "Marian," his voice came over the wire full of apology, "I'm sorry, honey. This has been one ROSES—TOMORROW bad day. I've had many operations. I was just getting ready to come home, and then this, but I think they're going to be all right, given time. "T really hadn't forgotten what day it is, either. I was going to send you flowers, too, and I just got bogged down with things. "But you know, don't you, that I'd be lost without you? Just coming home like this without you here, I realize how much you've meant to me all these years — how much I love you and need you." Marian's voice was warm with contentment. "I'm on my way home right now," she said. "No, Marian, don't come tonight, it's too late to drive so far alone. You stay, and I'll drive up tomorrow afternoon. I'll bring you roses, too. All right?" "All right," she answered. Softly. You are a snowflake posed upon the wind, So briefly held upon the air. In my palm you rest, but not for long; All my fierce longings hang like broken chains. Let the world dazzle with its carousels, AFTERNOON OF A SMALL BOY You hear the silver horses pawing stars. In you the holy secrets burst like flowers, You mark horizons hidden to my eyes. Margery S. Stewart But | am bitter why and heavy where Unreconciled, | strive to bolt the days. | pull the moments back, drag at the hours, But in your quiet integrity you stand. How small you are... SO newly, gladly formed. Here we wait, two friends at the station, Hearing afar off the sable train. Your shadow, delicate on unretentive tile, Stands on my own and we are one awhile. 735 EDITORIAL Volume 53 October 1966 Number 10 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtie R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West A century and a quarter of obscuring mists blur the recognition of the kindly deeds of the women during the early days of the restored gospel. One only learns of an incident here and there. In 1842, however, came the gift of the Lord to his beloved daughters through the Prophet Joseph Smith—the divine establishment of Relief Society — the organization through which the needy, the poor, the sick, the downhearted, the discouraged, were to be looked after in the years ahead. The Prophet himself wrote, following the first meeting of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil,. And possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC lV:567-568). concentrated efforts The sufferings were ameliorated and, as the Prophet said, through 'their concentrated efforts.'' Hitherto a neighbor's want was cared for as her condition became known, hereafter efforts were concentrated and directed. Systematic visiting discovered needs and brought help and relief. The kindly and soul-sustaining deeds of the women of Mormondom since that time glow brightly through the mists of the past in steady, warming colors as preserved in the sacred records of Relief Society. Studying minute books, the relief and care of the poor are found recorded. One can even follow an individual woman's record and observe her deeds of mercy, her generosity in her contributions of service, of food, and, later, in a monetary way, down the years. As differing conditions have arisen in the Church, Relief Society, as directed by the Priesthood of God, has gladly accepted new assignments. No longer do visiting teachers collect money for the charity fund, as the Church Priesthood Welfare Program became strong, but Relief Society continues to sew for the naked and preserve food for the hungry. In 1942, on the one hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, The First Presidency wrote to Relief Society: ''No other woman's organization in all the earth has had such a birth. This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another."' Today, throughout the world where the Church is organized, over 287,000 faithful, devoted members accept the responsibility in consecration to service and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God. In the directed program today of Correlation, Relief Society is training every member to be. A better wife, a better homemaker, a more cultured woman, and to encourage the holding of Family Home Evenings. No basic work of Relief Society, as divinely established, has ever been taken away but, with changing times and through inspired Priesthood direc- 'tion, Relief Society members of the Church are called to fill the current need and to move forward as one in every accomplishment. While individual goodness and service underlie the work, it is only through the organization of the women in the divinely inspired Relief Society that the needs of all are ameliorated. —M. C. S. AS (: Vv Vomans Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Gina Bachauer, a native of Greece now residing in London, is one of the world's most brilliant women pianists. After playing with the Utah Symphony in March 1965, she suggested to the officials of the Athens Festival, which sponsors the finest talent in the arts during the summer months, that they invite the Utah Symphony to play in Greece. Thus was set in motion the planning for. The symphony's European tour in September. To: the public's delight, Miss Bachauer played with the orchestra in Athens, Salonika, and London. Nationally famed children's dance director, won high praise from world-famous choreographer and: dancer José Limon, who said: "There isn't anywhere in the world—and |! Include New York, London, Paris, and Moscow—that has anyone who can touch her genius for teaching children the exciting purity in the dancing arts. And | know."' A Latter-day Saint, Miss Tanner (in private life Mrs. Robert. B.. Bennett) has attributed to her husband, fifteen-yearold daughter, and six-year-old son, the inspiration in her creative work. Virginia Tanner, Sarah Hunt, nineteen, of Springfield, Ohio, who has been blind since she was three years old, plays the piano, recorder, guitar, autoharp, and dulcimer. She attends Wittenberg University and works in one of the dining halls, sorting silver. In July, she went as an alto with the widely publicized seventy-five voice Wittenberg choir on a round-the-world tour. 738 Elizabeth Borton de Trevino received the Newberry Medal for children's literature for 1965 for her book "'l, Juan de Pareja." Dr. Muriel Hughes, a general practitioner from Colwyn Bay, North Wales, and Dr. Catherine Williams, a nose, ear, and throat specialist from Abergele, North Wales, were among the doctors who attended the Tenth Congress of the Medical Women's _ International Federation at Rochester, New York, in June. One purpose was to encourage more young women to study medicine in order to relieve the world shortage of doctors. Mrs. Asmar Salakhova, of Armenia, thought to be the oldest women alive, is believed to have been born in 1812, the year Napoleon invaded Russia. Miss Helen Gossett, a veteran social worker with the New York's United Hospital Fund, spoke at a meeting of the American Nursing Home Association in Washington in July. Having visited many of the average nursing homes in the United States, she says that the lot of many of the elderly, 'isolated and infirm," is 'apathy, despair, and a longing for death."' She blames this situation largely on the 'youth-oriented' American public, which expects people simply to withdraw from life at age sixty-five. (We cannot but contrast this attitude with the philosophy of the Church, which encourages mental and physical activity as long as possible, and also a self-sustaining program for workers as long as possible.) LaRue H. Rosell Resigns from The General Board The General Board of Relief Society regrets that LaRue H. Rosell, who was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society September 2, 1959, has submitted her resignation which became effective August 3, 1966. She has served willingly and faithfully in all the assignments which have been given to her over the past several years. She has served on the literature (cultural refinement) committee; the social science (social relations) committee; the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest committee, and has filled many other assignments with graciousness, efficiency, and devotion. Sister Rosell has won the love of her associates of the General Board, and has visited many Relief Society organizations giving wise counsel and inspiration to the sisters, who have appreciated her sweet spirit. Wherever she has met with the sisters she has uplifted them and has given them a greater desire to serve the world-wide sisterhood with increased devotion. The best wishes of the General Board of Relief Society, and of the Relief Society membership throughout the Church, are extended to Sister Rosell. May she find much happiness and contentment in all her future endeavors, and may Relief Society always be a joy to her and a fulfillment. HOW WONDERFUL Lela Morris How wonderful that | have eyes to see Pale mauve and shell pink skies at break of day When dancing aspen leaves are faintly musical, With errant fingers of pine-scented wind; When robins call to neighbors in their nests, And all the waking birds make twitterings. And far above, in the domed roof of earth, Clouds drift on farflung measures of blue; Day wanes and blazing fire of western skies Casts glory on majestic, snow-capped peaks And after dusk, black velvet of the night, Studded with galaxies of shining gems. How wonderful that | have eyes to see Breathtaking splendor he creates for me. 739 The Good Samaritan Becky Dawn Wood mi was returning from Jerusalem to my home in Jericho. I had just spent a very successful month selling my wares. My business takes me to our magnificent city of Jerusalem about four times a year. There, the rich Sadducee women welcome my coming, for they delight in seeing the latest patterns and textures of materials, some of which I import from Egypt and lands beyond Decapolis. The wives of Roman officers, who abound in this city and who are used to the fineries of Rome, thrill when I have for them to drape upon their shoulders that strange sheer cloth through which one can see. In all humbleness, I am quite a well-to-do cloth merchant. I travel all over the land of Judea 740 selling my cloth and rugs to anyone from peasant woman to nobleman's lady. Sometimes, I even venture to the coastal city of Caesarea which lies in Samaria. Of course on these journeys I always travel by ship, for never would I tread over that foul and unsafe land of the corrupt Samaritans. But the market is so good in Caesarea that I am almost forced to make these rare visitations. I must tell you that my wares decorate the summer homes of many high Roman officials who vacation there. My caravan, which consists of eight donkeys, two servants, three guards, and myself, was traveling on the dusty road to Jericho when a centurion and his company of an hundred soldiers joined us. I learned from the centurion that they were on their way to the borderland of Samaria and Judea to stop some fighting that had broken out between the Jews and Samaritans. Although thieves were few, because of Rome's oppressive measures, and it was almost safe to travel alone, I inquired of the centurion if my caravan might go with his army as far as Jericho, to which he consented. We traveled until the sun was no longer burning upon us and the sky had grown faintly dim. The centurion called his soldiers to a halt and informed me that they would spend the night at the village which we were approaching. To this reasonable suggestion, I readily agreed. The soldiers would camp that night in the town square, my servants would sleep in the stables in order to watch over the donkeys, and I decided to spend the night at the only inn that the small village afforded for the convenience of weary travelers. The people of the wayside town were used to Roman soldiers and caravans, so our arrival caused little commotion, and life in the town went on as if no outsiders had come. I was up in my room washing the dust from my feet and getting myself ready to eat the evening meal when, beneath my window, I heard awful groans— like groans of the dying. In the fading light I beheld two men. One was sitting on a donkey and resting his head on the mane. He was wrapped with crude bandages, and his excruciating pain was made apparent by his 'frequent moaning. The other man THE GOOD SAMARITAN was leading the beast and now was inquiring of the innkeeper for a place to stay. Everything about this man told me he was a hated Samaritan—his clothes, his looks, his speech, but not his manners. Samaritans always stand out in this land of the Jews. Overcome by curiosity, I went downstairs to discover the Samaritan's purpose and that of his hurt companion. I listened intently as he explained to the innkeeper, "Sir, I need a room where this man can stay and rest until he has regained his strength. I found him by the roadside. He had been robbed and also badly beaten by thieves. He needs good care and food. I will pay you well if you will attend to him while he recovers." I watched as the innkeeper agreed to the bargain, and the Samaritan paid him much more than enough to cover the charges. He then mounted his donkey and rode off into the night toward his native Samaria. I helped the innkeeper carry the wounded man to a room. In the morning I sent word to the centurion that I had decided to remain in the village for a few days and for him to go on without me. I stayed in the town until the unfortunate man had recovered from his afflictions. One day he told me that he was planning to leave the next morning, and then he related the story, which I had been eager to hear, of his misfortune. "Being out of work I had left Jerusalem when I heard of the fighting between the Jews and Samaritans in the _ borderland, 741 OCTOBER 1966 and planned to travel to Jericho where I might help in this war against the Samaritans. As I journeyed, five men fell upon me. They beat me and took my money, all I had left in this world. I lay almost lifeless upon the ground and cursed them, who had left me there to die. "T lay there for a long time, not having the power to rise, when I heard footsteps. I raised my eyes and saw a priest approaching, but when he saw that I had been attacked by robbers he passed by on the other side of the road. Later, another came, a Levite, and he also ignored my need for help and passed by. Then came the Samaritan you saw, who bound my wounds with rags he made of his own clothing and brought me here. Now that I am better I am going back to Jerusalem." "Back to Jerusalem? Then you are not going on to Jericho?" I asked. "No, for that Samaritan has taught me a lesson I cannot forget. I have heard some people in Jerusalem speak of a great leader who comes from Nazareth and performs many wonderful miracles and teaches of God's love for all men, Samaritans as well as Jews. I am going back to Jerusalem to find the whereabouts of the great One and become one of his disciples." He left the next morning, walking with the aid of a staff towards Jerusalem. Then I went out among the people of the village. I gave silver coins to the blind man who sat in the shade of the stone wall and begged. I gave to the small children who chased a white goat through the streets some black licorice, purchased from the vendors in Jerusalem. I thought to myself, that on my next visit to Jerusalem, I, too, would inquire of this great One—this Nazarene. UNTO THE HEART Linnie F. Robinson The autumn is a world of quiet peace; The freighted earth is rich with harvest days; The far extending fields of grain and fruit Proclaim the goodness of the summer's ways. No longer burn the hours of torrid heat— The air is mellowed in the purple land; Slowly perfection comes on vine and tree For nature wields no lowly contraband. Unto the heart whose autumn days have dawned, Through honest effort and exact design, Yielding the harvest of integrity, 742 There comes the fruit of knowledge ripe, benign, To venerate his days, most blessedly, Wherein his home is rife with charity. @ Beth Green removed the roast from the big oven and placed it upon the sinkboard. She looked out the kitchen window across the spacious green yard. Delighted, she caught the fragrance of the first blooming lilacs. The fragrance always alerted her to that little girl, summer-is-almosthere mood. She carried the roast to the round table in the middle of the kitchen and set it down. Her husband, Tom, had just come in from mowing the large back lawn and looked absolutely famished. Sara, her fourteen-year-old daughter, and Steve, her nineyear-old son, were at the table and on that subject again. Finally, Beth tired of listening, broke it up. "Children, just listen to yourselves. You are both getting a 'complex.' "' "What's that?' asked Steve, afraid his mother might be changing the subject. "It is a bit hard to explain," began Beth, "but mainly it is a feeling that someone else has something better than you, or can do something better than you can. In your case, you are both getting 'complexes' about these new houses going up near us, while we still live here in our old-fashioned, two-story white house." "It's old, all right,' snapped Sara. "Your grandfather built it long before the first World War. We don't even have a garage. We have to call that old barn, I mean carriage house, in the back, a garage. You said it yourself. 743 OCTOBER 1966 It was built to house your grandfather's horse and carriage. You call that a garage?" '"'Well it does a good job housing my station wagon and your father's sedan." "And a list of things too long for mentioning," Dad _ added, coming to Beth's defense. The other things he had in mind were bikes, sleds, toboggans, Steve's derby car. '""Maybe so," chimed in Steve, "but it is pretty out-dated." Even as a child, Beth had loved her grandparents' home here on the outskirts of town. She had played in the haymow, helped her grandfather hoe the garden, and during the hot summer days, she and her grandmother had picked fruit from the orchard. Soon after her grandparents were gone she and Tom were married. Rather than sell the property, they decided to move into it and make it into a big, comfortable home. True, they had soon made some up-to-date changes, but mostly they liked the house best with its early-day charm. While Tom served the plates, Beth looked through the kitchen window with a happy, contented expression. "You know," she said, "I sort of like the looks of the old barn back there next to the orchard. That big maple spreads its shade over the roof in the summer and shades most that part of the yard. My friend, who is an artist, called it 'picturesque.' " "Mother," Sara moaned, 'you just don't understand."' "Yes," answered Beth seriously, "I do understand. We were 744 happy and comfortable in this spacious old house with its big orchards and gardens. Now these subdivisions are going up with their well-designed homes, and suddenly you notice the difference. I admit there is a contrast, but that hardly gives us reason to pull up and move. Anyway, those new homes are expensive, and probably cramped for room." "Maybe so," admitted Sara, "but I've seen two girls and one boy my age moving into the finished houses on old Hill Road. They'll be our neighbors. They'll go to our school. Now Steve and I will be known as the boy and girl from that old house on the corner... With the barn!" So the complex grew through the spring into the first of June. Several of the homes were finished now and landscaped. More families were moving in, with new cars, too. Beth had to admit she began to feel the contrast. Each time she got such notions she went to the garden and picked string beans or went to the orchard and picked peaches from the trees. Feeling contented again, she thought about the new families with pint-size yards and only one broom closet to a house. Beth was at the front window hanging freshly washed curtains at the open window the day one of the new girls bicycled up the street close to the fence where Sara, in her flowered cotton dress, trimmed the withered roses from Beth's favorite rosebushes. The pretty brown-haired girl circled twice on her bike, hoping, Beth felt sure, that Sara would look up and speak. Sara, still smoldering in her complex, did not stop her snipping. Sara must have decided, Beth thought, that the girl looked lonesome because she took pity and spoke to her. In a second the new girl was off her bike and beside the fence. Soon they were chatting in that friendly fourteen-year-old tone. Before Beth had the curtains hung, Sara came toward the house, bringing the girl around to the back. As they walked by the windows she could hear their conversation. There are so many things, Beth thought, that she'll want to learn from Sara, about the school, the neighborhood. The girls were at the back of the house now, beside the back steps. "What an_ interesting house," the girl remarked, looking as if she were taking notes on the house and the old bam. "I bet you've had some good slumber parties up in that hayloft. Have you?" "No," answered Sara, without enthusiasm. "I had only part of the empty loft cleared away for the playhouse. The neighborhood girls used it sometimes, but I've never had a party or slept up there."' Sara wanted to change the subject, but the girl's eyes stayed on the barn, gathering ideas. "Your house is so big, I bet you have a room all to yourself." THE COMPLEX Her eyes had left the barn and now she covered the big, twostory house. "Yes, there are four bedrooms upstairs, and one guest room down," Sara informed her. "You're lucky. We have only three bedrooms in our house. My brother has a room, but my sister and I have to share a room. I better get going," the new girl said, turning. "It is time for my piano lesson. See you." | "Why didn't you ask her in?" Beth asked Sara when she came inside for a cold drink. "I suppose I should have," Sara said, "she seemed anxious to get acquainted. Her name is Pat. But I don't want her going all over the new neighborhood advertising about our house, inside and out." Now here we go again, Beth thought to herself, as she went back to the curtains. Steve came in at lunchtime and announced that he had met one of the new boys. "Dick's a nice kid, Mom. He'd play, but he has to stay around home and help plant shrubs and water the new lawn. His place is going to be real pretty, though. Sure makes our place look awful countryish."' "Oh," cried Beth as she struck her finger with the hammer she was using to drive a nail through the curtain rod. "I wish," she groaned to herself, "that Id never seen a bulldozer go by this house on its way to clear those lots." In a matter of days word got around about the house and barn but not the way that Sara imagined. The girls had started to come around the house now in twos 745 OCTOBER 1966 and threes. There appeared to be five now, including Sara, who had formed a clique. "It has a real hayloft," she heard one of the girls explain as they brought each new girl around to look. Enthusiastically, the girls hurried inside the barn and climbed the old ladder with such suggestions as: "Oh, this is neat. Why don't we clean it up and bring our record player up here?" Or, "Maybe my mother will let me "This is more fun than anything," exclaimed Bea, the smal] blonde girl, as she came into the kitchen with Sara to help carry to the barn. Beth had been so busy just keeping ice cubes in the refrigerator and snacks ready for the hungry girls that she had trouble remembering the girls' names. "Tf you'll help me," Beth heard Sara say a few days later, "T']] ask mother if we can clear away the south side of the barn that was used as the stable and make it into a Stage." The girls nearly burst with joy over the idea. "We can have our own little theater," they shouted. Possibilities By the end Stage progressed as the boys hammered away on a tree house. "Boy," You can't even play catch in their back yards." "There's room here," Beth said. "If you overflow the tree house you always have the orchard." THE first time Beth visited Bea's mother she felt uneasy the minute into the house. The inside was so freshly Painted and beautifully carpeted that Beth felt afraid she'd touch lawns. Beth mentioned it to Sara that evening while they washed dishes, "No wonder," Sara said, "that the girls like to come here." "Girls your age prefer comfort to luxury," Beth said, careful not to use that I-told-you-so tone. € next few days the heat drove the girls inside to the cooler rooms of the big house. Pat, sitting cross-legged on the floor confessed, "I'm Sure glad we moved here, Sara. I have always lived in an apartment. You don't know how much fun this is." "Too bad," Bea said, "that it wasn't your house for sale instead of all those new lots where we bought." "T think your homes are beautiful," Sara answered. Beth wondered from the tone of her voice if she hadn't really got over her complex. The sound of Sara's voice stil] bothered Beth as she went to the kitchen to prepare cold ham and potato salad for supper. She walked through the hot sunshine and brought in tomatoes from her garden. She moved a lemon pie to the back shelf of the refrigerator so the children would not see it until after dinner. Beth had dinner arranged attractively on her yellow and white checkered cloth, with a large bowl of shasta daisies and marigolds in the center when Tom came in from sprinkling the lawn. "You know," he said, as the family seated themselves at the table, "you children are right. These new homes are making our house look shabby and _ outdated. I'm going to talk to Mr. Rogers, the real estate broker tomorrow. I'll have him come out and give us an estimate on our property. We could get a smaller house over in the tract area by the lake. Be near the lake and the new high school." Sara and Steve's protests went THE COMPLEX up like white flags. "No, Dad,' Steve insisted quickly. "We're over our complex. We like it here." Sara couldn't speak right away because tears had suddenly filled her eyes. She managed enough voice to say, "I wouldn't want to move, Daddy. Not ever. We'll stay here,' she suggested, ''and Steve and I will save our allowances and buy some paint, maybe some more roses for around the front fence." "T could help paint," Steve offered, with all the confidence of a man. "Come on, agree, or mother will start doctoring you for what is it she called it, a complex." Beth smiled back, and suddenly confident that the "complex" was a thing of the past, she started passing the food. MY HEART WOULD BREAK Maude O. Cook | stand beside an open door. Through it | freely pass To breathe the fragrant air of spring, To walk on velvet grass. Surrounding me on every side Are paths that mark the way To meadows, hills, or far-off lands Where |! May choose to stray. If this same door were locked and barred, Another held the key, And four bare walls made up my world— Were all that | could see— Remembering the orchard-blooms, The moonlight on the lake, The hillside rich with autumn-glow— | fear my heart would break. 747 The firelight is warm and golden As | sit here alone; But each room is empty, silent Until you come. Then when |! Hear your whistle, And your footstep at the door, This place becomes alive, Happy, and secure. For by your very presence At evening when you come, The empty quiet of each room Becomes the peace of home. OCTOBER 1966 CINNAMON BISCUITS Place one package prepared biscuits. In greased pan. Put a dab of butter or margarine on top of each. Cover biscuits with brown sugar, and sprinkle cinnamon over this. Bake as directed on package. STRING BEANS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 1 can French sliced green beans 14 can mushroom soup Heat beans in saucepan. When liquid has boiled for a few seconds, drain it off and add undiluted mushroom soup. Allow this to begin bubbling, stir, and serve. If you have time on Saturday to sliver a few almonds, they make a delightful addition to this. You may use cream of vegetable or cream of celery soup, for a change, and fresh broccoli is also delicious treated in this manner. The cake may be a package cake, or your own recipe, and would, of course, be prepared on Saturday. MENU 2 baked chicken with rice frozen peas gelatine salad biscuits ice cream and cookies milk or postum BAKED CHICKEN WITH RICE 2 c. Uncooked rice 1 soup can water 1 c. Cream of mushroom soup 1 pkg. Dehydrated onion soup 1 c. Chicken gumbo soup two 21% Ib. Or a 3 Ib. Frying chicken, cut up Mix rice (regular long-grain, not minute or precooked rice), the two cans of undiluted soup, and can of water in greased 13" by 9"' baking dish. Sprinkle with about 14 of the onion soup. Place chicken pieces on top, skin side down. Don't remove the skin, or the rice will be too dry, but if you push it back on the side that is turned up, the chicken will absorb more of the flavor of the soup. Sprinkle the rest of the onion soup on the chicken making sure that each piece is covered with the soup. Reserve the backs and necks for making soup on Monday. Cover the entire dish with aluminum foil, folded around the edges to prevent steam from escaping. Bake in 325 degree oven for two hours. The salad in this menu is the same as in the first. The other items are purchased already prepared, or cooked according to directions on the package. MENU 3 beef pot roast brown gravy mashed potatoes tomato aspic three-bean salad biscuits milk or postum frozen strawberry torte The tomato aspic, three-bean salad, and dessert will all be prepared on Saturday. TOMATO ASPIC 2 envelopes unflavored gelatine 1 tbsp. Vinegar 14 c. Boiling water 1 tbsp. Sugar 14, c. Cold water 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 can tomato juice (optional) 1 can tomato soup 1 can salad vegetables 1 small clove garlic 2 stalks celery 1% tsp. Chili powder 3 green onions 14, cucumber radishes, avocado, sliced bell pepper, if desired 750 OCTOBER 1966 MASHED POTATOES Use dehydrated potatoes, and prepare according to instructions on package. There is not more than a minute's work involved, and in some areas the prepared potatoes are less expensive than fresh ones. They require very little storage space, and there is not. Danger of spoilage. Serve with butter or the gravy from the meat. The biscuits are again the package biscuits, used as they come from the package. LET'S MAKE STRAWBERRY JAM! Ida A. Isaacson 1 qt. Strawberries, hulled, washed, and drained Pour scalding water over strawberries, let stand 3 minutes. Drain. Add 1 cup sugar to berries, bring to a boil, and boil ten minutes by the clock. Add 2 cups more sugar. Cook 20 minutes (by clock). Stir constantly to avoid scorching. Remove from the stove and pour into an earthen dish, or crock (no metal bowl). Let stand for 24 hours. Stir every time you pass the bowl. After the jam has set for 24 hours, put it in clean, sterile bottles, which have been prepared beforehand, and placed on a thick towel so that they will be completely dry. Then seal with wax or self-sealing lids which have been dipped in boiling water. HOW TO SEW NYLON TRICOT Ethel Maturale Since nylon tricot has come on the market, | have had hundreds of calls from women asking to know how they can adjust their machines to mend and sew this fabric without skipping stitches. Many machines for commercial manufacturing, also, are difficult to adjust. | use spray starch generously down the seams | want to sew, then let the material dry, and the zigzag stitch works perfectly. The plain sewing, also, was successfully stitched. 752 Crepe Paper Costumes © shiney tin The planning of costumes for home, Church, and school entertainment events can be difficult sometimes. For easy, inexpensive costumes, why not use colorful crepe paper? A basic costume has been especially worked out so that both child and mother, or teacher, can have the most fun with the least work. Two rolls of crepe paper and the trimmings can make an elaborate costume with no end to its variations. Remember, too, that nowadays, crepe paper is absolutely flame-proof. A dancing snowflake is made of white crepe and trimmed with lace paper doilies. Change the crepe to light blue, stud it with stars, and a beautiful angel or fairy princess appears. Then, in a twinkling, and a few snips of the scissors, she becomes a spry little elf. SEWING METHODS through the entire fold 1314 inches Crepe paper may be sewed on the wide (or desired length of skirt), then aaatioe e Se hand. It will not ravel, Unfold (figure 1). Cut strips of wrapso hemming or facing is not necessary. Ping paper 1 inch wide and _ stitch The following directions will make a Underneath along one long edge of the costume to fit a five or six year old: skirt to give added stiffness. Gather the opposite edge and sew to waistSKIRT: Cut a piece of crepe paper line of a cotton slip (figure 2). For length of skirt gathered skirt 753 OCTOBER 1966 BODICE: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide with the grain, and 24 inches long, or long enough to go around the child's waist. Fold in half lengthwise, then turn ends in and stitch. Sew the bodice to the top of a cotton slip over the gathered skirt top (figure 3). COLLAR: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide and 60 inches long, gather lengthwise 3 inches from one long edge, until the collar fits child's neck, then fold over along the gathers. Sew ribbons to each end to tie (figure 4). Trim with tinsel or fluting as desired. 60'' deeper ruffle top of slip bodice collar figure 4 gather here 3'' deep 10"' 7" for large ruffle of collar collar HAT: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide, with the grain, and 22 inches long (figure 5). Fold one long edge under 114 inches, cut opposite edge into eight scallops 314 inches deep, for a scalloped flower froufrou trim for the top of the hat. Cut a strip of crepe 8 inches wide with the grain, by 12 inches long. Cut one edge into fringe (eight separate fringe sections, each 1144 inches wide and 6 inches deep). Curl ends of fringe over scissor blade. Gather bottom edge, tie tightly, and place in center of gathered scallops. Tie fringes and scallops tightly together (in back) to form completed hat. Te figure 4 cut 8 scallops for top decoration nt f 314" deep ln ii gather here crown of hat Vid 1" Vm, | fold under iy (Zag i a' —>| 7 l 1 4y%'' 8" + 2'' deep hat figure 5 754 22" long Dap 8 curled fringes —) each 114"' wide and 6'' deep 8 scallops around hat crown of hat 8 fringes each one 114" wide | 6'' deep for r| curled fringes gather here "I'm not going to kill myself gardening,' I denied. But my grown children and some of my friends still shook their heads and clucked, '"You're not as young as you used to be! Even as well as you are." "IT am taking it easy," I insisted. And I am—really. I am one of those women who must have a small plot of earth from which to coax forth color and beauty by their own efforts. I enjoy gardening. "But think of all the fringe benefits as well!' I gaily point out to my well-meaning critics. It means better health for me. Then, too, I have the satisfaction of doing something creative that gives me pleasure, an attitude of looking forward, not back. In gardening one is concerned with next month's results, planning next season's improvements. Not the least of these intangibles is that certain aura of tranquility that is engendered while working in one's own garden, where, somehow, some way, the Giver of life seems closer.; But to get back to earth, so to speak, gardening is work — but the work depends a lot on how you do it. I do it the easy way, whenever possible, knowing that some planning ahead, a certain amount of organization, and a little thought given to efficiency make the work easier. A neighbor boy cuts my lawn, and either he or one of his friends is most cooperative when, for instance, a man-size hole with a man-size shovel is called for. I work at my garden any time that is convenient for me, weather permitting, because I do have many other important things to do. I prefer mornings for work, in warm weather, the earlier, the better. I never allow myself to get overheated, or to arrive at a state of overexertion, but always stop short of these conditions. I am addicted to frequent rest periods, when I sit back and enjoy the results of my handiwork. I also dress properly for gardening, am properly shod (no slipper discards nor bedroom slippers). I wear clothes that are comfortable, tubable — and neat looking. I always wear gloves, either canvas for coolness or plastic for wetness. A light weight handcart is my pride and joy. What a step saver! In it I put everything I think I may need for the job at hand, and always my kneeling cushion encased in a big, disposable brown paper sack to keep it clean. I keep all my supplies in a corner of the garage, the seed catalogues and the things I cut from the garden section of the Sunday paper. There's a wide shelf, too, where I can do potting without stooping. On a nail hangs a memo pad and pencil. When I hang up my gloves I often jot down some little jobs that need doing. When the odd moment arrives — say, after dinner or waiting for the pot to boil, a glance at the pad reminds me to snip the crowding buds on the camellias or to do a little trowel work around the potted plants in the patio. There is no pressure on me the way I garden. The rewards — enjoyment and innumerable fringe benefits. Time moves on. Some day a physical condition may curtail this type of activity for me. Until then, I shall be enjoying to the fullest my little patch of dirt. 755 Joyce R. Gillming @ From where I stand at the bottom of the hill, the hot, dusty road rises slowly up the hillside. The red clay bank, higher at first than I am, gradually lowers to meet the road. To my right, the paved county road starts to soften in the heat, while on my left, the tree-studded ground slants up and away. As I begin to climb, I can catch only an occasional flash off the white eaves of the house that sits about halfway up the hill. First comes a small section of pasture grass, green and lush. Blue lupine and small yellow daisies are blooming now. Delicate pink flowers, almost unseen at first, dot the grass like tiny French knots sewed at random through a background of green cross-stitch. Earlier in the spring, this meadow was covered with slender buttercups and bluebells of Scotland. The grass and flowers end where clumps of live oak trees, alternating with an occasional black oak or pine, cover the hillside with deep shade. Nothing grows beneath the trees but insistent yearly shoots from old stumps and insidious poison oak. Mottled areas of shade are thrown across the road by the trees as I continue up the hill. In spite of these welcome patches, the hot sun burns my back before I reach the turn into our drive. Here, a large group of live oaks provides a pocket of shade and a resting place. The quiet hum from the highway on the hill in back of me is punctuated with bright, sharp calls from the birds down in Bailey's pasture. I rest awhile and watch the grazing cows slowly wander among the ruins of the pear orchard. Even the two new calves move quietly in the heat. The narrow stream bisecting the pasture is too far away to give any illusion of coolness. A slight breeze, composed of equal odors of hot pine needles, cows, and fragrant grass floats along the call of "Mom, oh, Mom." With a deep breath I rise and turn into our drive for the last stretch of my climb. A high bank is now on my right. It is in two levels. The lower level is overgrown with underbrush, tall weeds, and a few trees. The second level is faced with a retaining wall of old crossarms from utility poles. In pockets of dirt, pink ice plants bloom with a brilliant glow against the weathered wood. On top, a half circle of lawn frames the bright yellow and white house. And now I look back down the way I have come. My eyes follow the path the children have made through our woods. I raise my eyes and see the ridge of the hills. The spire shapes of the pines climb the hill in tiers and form a living wall of green to shelter our road, our woods, and our home. THE BLESSING Catherine B. Bowles | know not if the blessing sought Will come in just the way | thought, But | leave my prayer with him alone Whose will is wiser than my own, Assured that he will grant the quest And send an answer far more blest. 756 Amy G. Bond Y ® While I trimmed my climbing rose and cleaned out the accumulation of dry leaves beneath it, I was reminded how like our lives it was. As I worked, I kept getting caught in the grasp of the seemingly harmless green tendrils. They seemed to reach out and get one thorn caught, making it possible for another to catch on to my clothing. Sometimes, the long ones would mysteriously wind around me, holding me fast. Only by determination and much struggle was I able to loosen their biting grasp. As soon as I loosened one, another seemed to reach out and grasp me. Before I was through, I was scratched and bleeding. The exposed parts of my body had been covered, I thought, well enough. It helped some, but even then some of the thorns would penetrate. I hate to think how scratched I would have been without the protection I had provided. So it is with our lives. There are beautiful and seemingly innocent-looking tendrils waiting to grasp us at every turn, and only by providing a shield, such as keeping the commandments of God to help protect and guard us from the thorns of life, can we hope to escape the forces waiting to tempt us. Sometimes, we are caught in a situation not of our making, but most of the time, if we are ever on guard, we can avoid many of the reaching tendrils awaiting us at every turn along the highway of life. Like the rosebush, many beautiful and enticing temptations hold danger, things are made to look so enticing that we feel that they can't be wrong. Thus our attitudes are changed before we realize it. Bad habits and evil-doing of any kind can ensnare us. We start by saying to ourselves, "Others are doing this and they seem to be enjoying themselves. They even seem to be getting along financially better than I am, and I am trying to do the things I should." Before long we have rationalized until we convince ourselves a habit isn't as bad or as wrong as we had been taught it was. By the time we have discovered we are wrong in our thinking, sometimes, it is almost too late or impossible to quit doing the things we have taken up. Again, we are caught with the green, harmless-looking tendrils. If we are strong in our beliefs and have the will power and determination, we can break loose, but not without feeling the prick of the thorns. From the rose bush I turned to some shrubs with dead wood and dry leaves in them. We also let dead wood and dry leaves hinder us just as they hinder and obliterate the growth and beauty of a shrub or flower bed. We must profit by our mistakes—and the dead wood in our lives—but not let them accumulate in our hearts and minds to the extent we are oblivious to all else that is good and fine in our lives. We must keep the weeds and dry leaves of disappointment, discontent with our lot, selfishness, greed, 'dishonesty and fault-finding from establishing a place in our hearts and minds to breed and grow to maturity. Only by doing these things can we find the true happiness for which we are all seeking. 757 @ Sean, my tiny grandson, must have been born to be a steeplejack. He is currently engaged in teaching his three-year-old brother how to ascend to heights already long accessible to him. Perhaps Sean climbed before he walked because he learned to creep in the bath tub with a few inches of water to assist him. He pulled himself forward with his elbows and forearms, at the same time drawing his knees up under him, then straightening them out in a manner that thrust him ahead—really a cross between worming, swimming, and creeping. This means of locomotion, quickly perfected, proved valuable not only on floors, flat beds, and_ other horizontal stretches, but on inclined and even perpendicular planes. If he is curious it is easy to climb to the top of a dresser, table, or piano to investigate; if he wants 758 to bounce he can go up over the footboard of any adult bed; if he is tired he can get himself into his crib. It is difficult, but possible, to drag his brother's big hobby horse to the side of his crib, crawl up to the saddle, stand on it, step to the horse's head, pull himself up over the crib railing, and fall down on the mattress. Drawing up the blanket and settling to sleep is easy after the precarious ascent of the Matterhorn. Of course, he is always covered with bruises because his descent is not as studied as his ascent; frequently it is not studied at all, not even contemplated. I sat with him the other day on the front seat of my automobile. The back of the seat is higher than Sean's head, but by raising his arms he could clasp his hands over the top of it, and wherever he has a handhold, he can climb. He held on to the top of the seat with his hands and pushed his body up by drawing up his knees and thrusting forward until he could get his arms over the seat back. When he was within one thrust of his destination, I clasped my fingers around his ankle to keep him from climbing higher. At once he knew what had impeded his progress. Without a cry or any show of anger, he slipped down into the seat, carefully unfolded my hand, one finger at a time, until he was free, then started all over again with the climb. He knew where he wanted to go, he knew how to get there, and he was patient with removing any obstacle in his way. He was willing to try over and over again. By every law governing success he should have gone up and over, not once but again and again. But there was one thing he didn't THE CLIMBER know. If he went over the top of that seat, he would plunge a distance almost twice his length headfirst onto the floor of the car. Since he did not know what was beyond his immediate goal, he must have thought me unreasonably opposed to his having what he wanted. I, too, have tried to climb. I have used all of the capabilities I have developed in a lifetime of trying. I know what my goal is and how to reach it. I am willing to try over and over again, and I am even patient in trying to remove the obstacles that impede my progress. But still I do not often reach the goal I'm striving toward. Does the hand that impedes my progress belong to one who knows more than I about what is beyond the immediate goal I long for with my finite mind? FROM A MOTHER'S HEART Kathryn Kay | did not think these Hands of mine, so simply styled, Unused to miracles and very plain, Could ever be a source of balsam to my child And by their gentle touch help ease the pain. | know in life it must be each must have his share Of pain and grief, so in my mother-heart | pray, Let my child have the strength to bear what he must bear When hurts are deeper than my hands can brush away. A LULLABY Christie Lund Coles What, you ask, is a lullaby? Listen, and | will endeavor to tell; It is a gentle, yet powerful song, And only mothers truly know it well. It is soft darkness rising to the sky, Lighting a star or two along the way; It is a poem whispered by the wind, Which only lips of love can learn to say. It is a touch, a look, perhaps, Shuttering the room when the night is wild; It is a hushed, sweet sort of singing that Is only comprehended by a child. 759 Our Children Earn, Their Own @ A neighbor was visiting me one afternoon when Tim, our sixyear-old, came rushing home from school, jerked off his jacket and tossed it over a chair. Noticing his actions, I slowly walked over to the kitchen cabinet, picked up a small glass jar and proceeded to remove the lid. "Please, Mother! Don't take out a button," pleaded Tim, and, quickly grabbing his jacket, added, "I'll hang it up right away!—I'm sorry." With wrinkled brow, his big 760 brown eyes scanned my movements as I hesitated, for I had momentarily forgotten whether it was Tim or Johnnie whom I had warned for the last time. As if sensing my doubtful thoughts, Tim reminded me, "It was Johnnie, Mamma, that threw his jacket down yesterday." "So it was," I said, and as I screwed the lid back onto the jar I reminded Tim that this was his last warning. He scampered off to his room. The kitchen door swung open a second time, and in bounded eight-year-old Johnnie with a beaming smile. 'Hi, Mom," he sang, and seeing Mrs. Austin, he asked, "Are Terry and Judy here?" "They are playing in the den," she informed him. He had taken his jacket off and was about to sling it when he looked at me guiltily and said, "Oh! — Oh! I almost forgot, Mom," then dashing toward his room, lilted, 'but I'm sure glad —I didn't." Mrs. Austin raised her eyebrows and cocked her head. She came over to inspect the glass jars lined up on the kitchen cabinet. There were two small jars —one labeled 'Tim,' the other "Johnnie'—and one larger jar labeled "'Mr. Allowance," and in small print below his name it read, "I help you earn your allowance."' Each small jar had a slot in the lid, and each jar contained several white buttons. Mr. Allowance's jar held many more buttons—all white, except for a few black ones. Just then Tim reentered the room and asked, ''Mom, is it O. K. If, after we get our clothes changed, we play with Terry and Judy until they go home, and then do our chores later?" Since there was no reason why the chores couldn't wait, I agreed to make an exception and let the boys play before they did their daily tasks. | Being extremely interested in what had taken place, Mrs. Austin asked, ''Would you mind explaining your system of your children earning their allowances? It seems very effective." And so I related the following story to her: OUR CHILDREN EARN THEIR ALLOWANCES Feeling as we did (that all through life one has to work to receive compensation) Joe and I decided we would teach our children that money. Was not handed out gratis. Tim was three and Johnnie five when we started using the button-jars as a means for them to earn their allowances. Beginning each week, we placed ten white buttons into each jar. Each child was assigned chores, such as, picking up and putting away his toys; hanging his clothes on hooks (which were — installed within his reach); - emptying waste paper baskets, and other small duties. When either child did not do his job satisfactorily, he was given fair warning, so he knew that when it happened a second time, a button would be extracted from his jar. If a chore was neglected entirely, more buttons were taken out. Whenever a child was naughty, or disobeyed, he would lose a button, or buttons, depending upon the nature of the act. All buttons taken from the children's jars were placed back into Mr. Allowance's jar which, in the beginning, contained only white buttons. THE children were disappointed when they lost buttons, for at the end of the week, the buttons were counted and exchanged for pennies. We gave the children an opportunity to add to their allowances. For any unassigned tasks that a child did (providing it was something that needed to be done), or for several acts of kindness, extra buttons were added to his jar from Mr. Allowance's jar. It takes a bit of doing to teach small children to be helpful and 761 OCTOBER 1966 courteous, but after a couple of weeks of very few buttons left in their jars, the children learned to cooperate and they began forming better habits. As they grew older, we started each week with more buttons and 4lso assigned other tasks. "Well, now you've heard the story of how our children earn their allowances,' I told Mrs. Austin, "and you've witnessed how effective it is." "Very interesting,' said Mrs. Austin, "but you've neglected to explain the black buttons in Mr. Allowance's jar." "Oh! Yes! I must not forget that, for they play an important part, although we've only had to use one black button. One day Johnnie was seen adding an extra white button (unearned) to his jar. After fully explaining to him the unfairness of cheating, I took ten white buttons from his jar and inserted a black button. It was left in his jar until he had earned back the ten white ones he had lost. So we always keep a few black buttons in Mr. Allowance's jar, just as a reminder that it pays to be honest." Mrs. Austin smiled and said, "I like the idea—I think I'll try it." I assured her that we found our system of having our children earn their allowances a pleasant experience. We appreciate the fact that they don't ask for money. On the other hand, the children seem proud to earn their allowances. They are learning the value of money; they know it doesn't come easy, and they are learning that it takes a great deal of effort and cooperation to reap rewards. The golden grain is cut and freshly stored. The undulating waves are stubble now, THE GOLDEN GRAIN And all the rolling hillside's ripened hoard Is garnered for our food. We know, somehow, Gladys Hesser Burnham That waving sea of nodding heads of grain That rippled through the summer sun and heat Paints pictures, brightly fresh, then again It fortifies us with our bread to eat. 762 apeak ta People Patricia Middleton Faas My husband and I recently returned for a visit in Salt Lake City and were with some friends at one of the newer, mammoth shopping centers. I sat down on a convenient bench in the lobby to wait for the other shoppers in our "I'm glad I did, too." She smiled. I watched after her to see her being speeded along by an energetic and quite persistent little fellow whom I took to be a grandson. And I thought, how full and rewarding this good woman's life must be, as she approaches her ninetieth year, still delighting in being friendly. JEWELED TRAP Eva Willes Wangsgaard 1 will not share this shady spot With anything else that moves, | thought. But wait. A daintily patterned wing Of a vanished moth begins to swing An arc on invisible filament, Like a jeweled fan from the Orient. Invisible? No, this airy foil Is opalescent as floating oil, And its clever spinner is out of sight Awaiting new innocence in flight. Athena is lost, with her jealousies; Arachne spins on through the centuries. 763 Ivy Houtz Woolley QUICK LUNCHEON hard-boiled eggs buttered toast 7 1 can tomato soup Dilute tomato soup with 14 can hot water, then put on stove and bring to boiling point. Make a thickening of flour and water, add salt and pepper. Add thickening slowly to tomato mixture. Put two pieces of buttered toast on each plate, cut egg lengthwise and place yolk down on toast. Cover toast and egg with delicious tomato sauce and put a sprig of mint or parsley in each egg mound and serve. For dessert—a small fruit dish with 2 figs, 2 prunes, 2 dates, a few raisins, and a maraschino cherry on a colored toothpick. Add a few bits of parsley. Centerpiece—a low glass bowl with a bunch of parsley (and a flower or two if desired) on a small mirror completes the repast. It's unusual and delicious. HANGER FOR JAR RINGS Get a wire about two yards long. Make. A hook like a safety pin clasp on one end, then bend the other end of the wire up, fasten it in the clasp, like a large safety pin, hang it on the wall in the pantry, utility room, or porch. When you remove the rings from fruit jars, slip them on this big pin, then fasten it again until you have another ring. At the canning season take the big pin full of rings, dip them into boiling water, lay on table or stove where you are canning then reach for a ring. The rings are always there, sterilized and ready for use. SERENITY Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Older, Older than we The peaceful noontime oaks Deep-rooted stand in pools of shade, Content. 764 x eX S Meee cavers car een ne ee mem * ee f * > *. - 7 '.. >. A 20 6 A ' y ' - y We. 7% »"™ — 2 3 a ' og. Yas ' * « °, Ae SV uw ee HESTELLA KUTTLER CREATES BEAUTY WITH CROCHET HOOK AND KNITTING NEEDLES Hestella Abrams Kuttler, Pocatello, Idaho, has found the satisfying enrichment of life that handicraft gives to a woman who loves beautiful articles for decorating the home, for presenting as gifts, and for supplying ''best sellers' for Relief Society bazaars. Many of Sister Kuttler's crochet and knitting designs are made in patterns of her own creation, and all of them are ''stitched with fine exactitude.'' Her afghans, doilies, tablecloths, and bedspreads are exquisite, and she has made hundreds of novelty articles, including crocheted baskets, flower holders, pillow tops, wall hangings, and artificial flowers. She has also knitted and crocheted jackets and sweaters and made decorative stitchings as trimmings. Recently, in one year, she pieced three quilts and did all the quilting on four quilts. Sister Kuttler has served twelve years as a ward Relief Society president, twelve years as a class leader, and has served many years as a teacher in Sunday School and YWMIA, as well as being a devoted researcher in genealogy. After the death of her husband, she served in the Southwest Indian Mission. Six of her eight children are living, and she has thirty-seven grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. At eighty-one years of age, she attends temple sessions regularly and takes care of her own home. 765 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram from her Aunt Isabelle, asking her to fly home at once. Her friend Betz Condon accompanies her, and the girls meet Carolyn Bridges, matron at a hospital in Perth. During a stopover in Fiji, Dan Fargo, a friend of Grandfather Ridgehaven, boards the plane, and Julie learns that her fiancé Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. When they arrive in Sydney, they find that Grandfather has made plans for an expedition into the bush to help in the search for Ron. @ Aunt Isabelle talked in such a low voice Julie had to bend her head to hear her. "T could not bear to tell Dr. George," she said. "I wanted his love, not his pity. So I went away for my first operation. No one knew, not even my parents. Only Dr. Spencer has known all these years." Julie caught her breath. Dr. Spencer was the best cancer uy Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 4 specialist in all Australia. People came for hundreds of miles for his opinions. "T have had three operations," Aunt Isabelle continued. "Each time Dr. George and my family thought I went with a group of teachers to the Art Festival in Adelaide. Once, before Dr. George went away, I went to the hospital in Perth. That is where I met your friend, Carolyn Bridges. When I saw her at the aerodrome today I wondered if she had told my secret." "No, she did not!" Julie protested. "She never once mentioned your name. But she did say she had heard of Grandfather." "T should have known she was true to her profession," Aunt Isabelle said. 'The reason [ look —so—awful, right now, is_ be- cause I finally let them give me cobalt. It made me very ill. But they told me that it helps. We are always hoping for a miracle." "So am I! Aunt Isabelle. I believe in miracles. But, Aunt Isabelle," Julie scolded her gently, "why didn't you tell us? Why didn't you let us help you? Why did you bear this all alone for all these years?" Julie's voice stumbled, and she hid her face in her hands. "Why? Why?" she repeated, brokenly. "Julie — listen, dear.'"' Aunt Isabelle touched her bowed head. "Because I loved you all so much." "But Dr. George?" Julie asked. "You let him go away." "Yes, because I loved him. George and I were meant to be together. I met him when he was a young intern at the hospital here in Sydney. He would come over here, after he had been on duty all day. He would be tired with thinking of diseases and the pressures of too much work. So I didn't talk about the hospital to him. Instead, we listened to music and danced or strolled in the park, laughing and having fun. He told me that coming to see me was like finding a spring of water in the bush. He said how wonderful it was to have a sweetheart who could always laugh and sing and never complain. 'Being with you, Isabelle,' he told me, 'helps me forget all the misery I see all day long. Don't ever change, darling. It would be like having the sun tum black and the moon fall out of the sky.' " Aunt Isabelle nibbled her lower lip, nervously. "I wanted him to think of me that way; Julie. I wanted to be the sunshine in his TELL ME OF LOVE life; the moon and the stars, too."' Her eyes were soft brown velvet in her pale face and her whitish hair was a halo. There was something fresh and young about her in spite of her illness. It is because she loves so deeply, Julie thought. She has so much love to give that it glows in her sweet, sensitive face. "T let him go away without me," she went on. "I could not bear to tell him. I kept hoping I would be well again." WULIE'S throat was dry and aching. How could she tell Aunt Isabelle, who was twice her age, and had been a mother to her for eleven years, that she was wrong about love and life; that she should have confided in Dr. George and her family in the very beginning of her illness. How could any woman as intelligent as Aunt Isabelle, and with her wonderful parents, be so utterly unrealistic? Hadn't she even listened to Grannie? 'Aunt Isabelle," she said, praying to say the right words, "I know you came here to Grannie's room for comfort just as I did. I can remember so many things she taught me about love and marriage; how it meant facing the world together, sharing the bitter and the sweet. Dr. George is a doctor, Aunt Isabelle. He would have helped you and taken care of you. Instead, you let him think that you didn't need him—that you wouldn't live in the outback with him. You let us all think that." Aunt Isabelle's eyes glistened with tears held back too long. They spilled over on her cheeks and her face crumpled. "Julie, Julie!" she sobbed at 767 OCTOBER 1966 last. "I know I have been wrong— so terribly wrong. Help me to go to George—to be near him for a little while." Julie held her tenderly in her strong young arms. "I will help you, Aunt Isabelle. All of us will help you, now that you will let us. We need you to help us, too. We need you, Aunt Isabelle." Julie stood up holding her dressing gown tightly around her. She was shivering with cold. "Try to sleep," she said, gently. "T will, too. Big Dan expects us to be at the aerodrome by five A. M. Grandfather has chartered a private plane to take us to the ranch."' THE minute the airplane took off, Big Dan took charge of everyone. Julie felt a sort of comfort in his jolly company. His eyes beamed confidence and hope. "A project like this," he said, looking around at each of them, "fis half won if we have prayerful faith in its accomplishment. John, did you bring the maps?" he asked. "Sometimes we learn a lot when we compare the country below us to the newest map. You know this country, John, about as well as I do. You come out here every month or so." "T don't know it the way you do, Big Dan," John said with a modest grin. "I supervise all the Ridgehaven properties—that is, I know approximately how many sheep we have and how much money we make. I know the Australian government owns the railways, because it's my business to use the railways. But you ask me how many rivers there are in Australia and which is the longest and I'm a mutton-head." Wally, who was sitting beside 768 Aunt Isabelle called out: '"'That's fourth grade geography, Uncle John." Then he quoted in a high, piping little boy's voice: "The Darling river is in eastern Australia and flows to the southwest and joins the Murray. It is the longest river in Australia." "Go to the head of the class," Aunt Isabelle smiled at him. "I thought you were a_ dunce, Wally." Big Dan, listening to their light banter, smiled indulgently. "Water is a very serious problem here in Central and Western Australia. We have many short rivers in the western part but nearly all of our rivers, except the Darling-Murray river system in eastern Australia depend almost entirely on rainfall. We have no great snowfalls nor springs to feed rivers as they have in other countries." Wally rolled his eyes and spread his hands. "No rain, no water," he chanted. "Say, that would make a good ballad, Julie, no rainee, no drinkee, I'm dried out and weakie."' Betz clapped her hands, keeping time to Wally's chanting voice. Aunt. Isabelle shook her head at Wally. "Now stop that, please,' she scolded. 'I'm interested in what Big Dan has to say about water conditions out here. Water is the lifeblood of any country." "Yes, Ma'am," Wally said, meekly, winking at Betz, who winked back at him. They speak the same _ nonsense, Julie thought, even though Wally is Australian and Betz is American. Little sparks of understanding pass between them like signals. She noticed, too, that Aunt Isabelle was more interested in everything today. Her eyes had lost their haunted look, and her lips were curved and ready to smile the way they used to. She has found new hope and courage and something to live for, Julie thought, gratefully. She will see Dr. George soon. Grandfather has asked him to meet the plane. "Tell us more, Big Dan," Aunt Isabelle said. "Especially about the search for underground water channels." "Some have been found in Central Australia,"' Big Dan went on. "The deepest bore is at Whitewood. It's five thousand feet deep." "What about these water experiments they are doing up on the northwest coast?" Uncle John asked. "They are trying to get the sea water underground someway and perhaps get it down to irrigate some of the bush." Bic Dan pursed his lips and shook his head. ''Not too successful, so far," he said. 'There is danger of turning the soil to salt. But, of course, they keep trying. Our engineers are trying constantly to find water. That's what our boy Ron was doing — hunting for likely underground channels. Only he was up north of Perth." There was a long, quiet moment. Julie bent her head, saying a little prayer. She knew they were all thinking of Ron, even though they tried to be jolly in the Ridgehaven fashion, in spite of their serious mission. So she lifted her head and made an effort to join the conversation. "What I'd like to know," she said to Big Dan, "is why the eastTELL ME OF LOVE ern coast of Australia has green foliage and luxuriant plants and exotic flowers; luscious fruit and vegetables all year around. That's the way it is, Betz—a lopsided continent."' Wally stood up, bowing to Aunt Isabelle. "With your permission, may I tell my scrappy little Irish cousin that Australia is an island, the largest island in the world, completely surrounded by water." Aunt Isabelle said, '"'Wally, you should respect what your cousin said." But her eyes were loving. Him. Everyone loved Wally. He is a rascal, Julie thought, but irresistible, anyway. Betz was drinking in every word he said, watching every clownish act. Julie wondered about Betz. "T want our American guest to know the truth about our country," he went on. "Please, Aunt Isabelle, let me tell Betz what I learned in the fourth grade, then I won't say anything else and will let Cousin Julie have her say again." "You mean you made it to the fourth grade?' Betz questioned impishly. "With honors,' he _ grinned. "Now, to get back to the point, Australia is bound on the north by the Timor Sea and the Torres Strait, on the east by the Pacific Ocean; on the south by the Bass Strait and the Great Australian Bight,. And on the west by the Indian Ocean. So I say it's an island. Any questions?" "Yes," Uncle Jeff laughed. "Why don't you sit down and keep still.", "Tt's a continent," Julie insisted, with her pixie-like smile. "You are both right,"' Big Dan 769 OCTOBER 1966 said. "It is the biggest island and the smallest continent in the world!" Aunt Cleo, who had been resting against Uncle John's shoulder, sat upright. "I don't think it's lopsided, Julie,' she said, smiling. "The bush has its share of beauty." Julie thought how well Aunt Tricia had taught Cleo. She could speak correctly, and with charm when she really tried. "There is so much to see and love out there," Aunt Cleo went on. "The way the sun rises out of the bush, the sparkling spinifex like stars in the grass, the gray-white mobs of sheep that mean wool and food for millions of people, the bouncing kangaroos, with their pump-handle tails, and the tall, dancing birds. So many things...." Her voice trailed off, and her wide blue eyes challenged them. "Tell me, have any of you ever seen anything more beautiful than a rainbow in the bush? What I call wonderful is running through the rainbow with the slosh of water on my feet and seeing the billabongs full of water, and knowing that the sheep and cattle will have plenty to drink. There's more to the 770 bush than most folks see at first glance." "Cleo is right,' Big Dan said, nodding his head. "You have to live in a place to love it." That seemed to end the argument. Big Dan and Geoffrey bent over an improvised table, studying the map again. Aunt Cleo went to sleep against Uncle John's shoulder. Even Wally sat down beside Betz and looked out of the window. Julie heard Betz say: "It looks like the middle of nowhereville to me." "Righto," he answered in a whisper that Aunt Isabelle heard. "But wait until you see grandfather's station on the west end. That is the bloomin' tail-end of nowhereville."' "Wally!" Aunt Isabelle corrected him. "That's not cricket. Why don't you tell Betz that the Ridgehaven properties produce thousands of bags of wool. And a great deal of wheat, and that we have banana plantations and tomatoes we send abroad." "IT know that, Aunt Isabelle, you're quite right. Quite right." He gave her an engaging grin. "I gave her the let-down first. Now I'll give her the build-up. Even if it does sound like bragging."' Julie looked at Aunt Isabelle, who was smiling tolerantly. They could both hear Wally telling Betz all of the good things he remembered about the properties and the surrounding country; the oyster beds on the beach a few miles away, and the rich crayfish. "Aunt Cleo is right about the rainbow," he added. Betz was looking at him with a bright new light in her eyes. "The rainbow out there circles the whole country," he went on dreamily. Then he laughed. "The catch is, we don't have much rain so we don't have much rainbow!"' Betz laughed with him, and Julie turned her head so she could not see them. A feeling of apprehension tightened her heart. Betz hadn't looked at Gordon or any other boy the way she was looking at Wally, as if every word he said was pure magic. Wally was engaged to Sue Ellen. Julie realized she must remind Betz about this the first time they were alone. Wally lifted his voice now, so Aunt Isabelle could hear him. "They named the township a few miles from the ranch, 'Ridgehaven Town,' because Grandfather has done so much for the aborigines and everyone else who works for him in shearing time. Does that about wrap it up, Aunt Isabelle?" "With ribbons," she answered. It was a long, monotonous ride. Julie was grateful when the TELL ME OF LOVE plane began to descend at the end of their journey. Everyone was eager to get off the plane; everyone but Aunt Isabelle. She was pale and tense and her hands twisted together. Julie knew how she felt about seeing Dr. George again. 'Aunt Isabelle,"' she said, with tender concern, ''we both need a bit of rouge and a touch of lipstick. Here—use some of mine. And let me comb through your hair. You have such beautiful hair. It's like cotton puffs. Everyone tries to have hair the color of yours, Aunt Isabelle." "You think that because you love me," she murmured. "IT do," Julie smiled. "Now promise me. The minute you see Dr. George, you give him a big, gay smile and throw him a kiss." "T promise," she said. "But Julie—what if he isn't there waiting. I—can't bear it—if he didn't come. I won't be able to go on." (To be continued) Cy A BOX OF DAYS Dorothy O. Rea NOW: My days are tidy little squares, calendared on the wall. The house is clean, ironing's done, no stray toys in the hall, His letter could come tomorrow. Or a phone call — maybe today. His room's in perfect order — in case he stops this way. THEN: The upstairs waited to be cleaned. The stairway needed washing down. But my little boy just couldn't wait. We explored the sun-drenched town. That's when ironing could wait. Beds could air the whole day long. When a child needed to be read to, or taught to sing a song. 77) Lake Mead Stake (Nevada) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 18, 1966 Mary R. Edwards, President, Lake Mead Relief Society, stands in the second row, third from the left; Almeda Deen, chorister, center front, directly behind the pulpit; Elsie Hurst, Second Counselor and assistant organist, to the right of Sister Deen; Nancy Larsen, accompanist, to the left of Sister Deen. Sister Edwards reports: " 'Let All My Life Be Music' was the theme of the first Singing Mothers concert presented in Lake Mead Stake. This was also a first for Henderson, Nevada, when eighty-six mothers of seven of the wards presented beautiful music of every type. Sisters from one of the wards traveled 180 miles round trip to participate. A choice comment came from a twelve-year old, 'Oh, I wish I were a mother, so I could sing in something pretty like that.' We were more than proud of our beautiful mothers in their black and white, with corsages of Relief Society colors. "Interspersed throughout the program were five-minute numbers from each ward, ranging from comedy to sacred themes, along with various tempos. The combined groups sang 'O Lovely Land America' by our own Sister Madsen | of the General Board and Sister Christensen. The toe tapper 'Sound of Music' and our theme song 'Let All My Life Be Music' brought to mind that in life we encounter hardships (minor chords), but we strive for something greater, 'and on a thrilling major chord, there let life end.' "' Hattiesburg Stake (Mississippi) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention and Banquet May 7, 1966 Bobbye Anderson, President, Hattiesburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme of the convention was 'The Key.' Beside each plate was placed a gold key chain, with a large royal blue crackled marble attached to it. A name card in the shape of a key was worn by each guest. Place cards were a gold key glued to a stand of blue, both made with construction paper, with names on the key shape. "The evening began with a greeting to the guests, followed by a banquet, which was prepared by the stake board members. After a short skit, members and guests went into the chapel for the remainder of the program. The Gulfport Singing Mothers provided the music. Counselor Estelle Blaylock presented the following awards: Edna Hewitt (Pascagoula Ward), for the visiting teacher with the longest period of service, presented with a large bunch of plastic grapes, to represent the fruits of her labors over the many years; Biloxi Ward, for having the highest percentage of visiting teaching for the year, presented with a large painting on the blue satin of the Relief Society seal; Gulfport Ward, for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers at the convention, presented with a large picture, having the lettering: 'Said Jesus, Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do' (lettering in gold on blue velvet). All of the awards were made by board members. "After the presentations, a talk on visiting teaching was made by Elsie Trussel, stake visiting teacher message leader. Then we all enjoyed the film 'Unto the Least of These.' Stake President Edwin H. White was the concluding speaker." 772 material submitted for publication in this department should be sent the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society superOne annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the rial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. 1 ictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society a o eA, hi G8 od yor a OCTOBER 1966 Grant Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 15, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Sylvia Luck, chorister; Wilma Packer, organist; Lenore Driggs, First Counselor; Vera B. Kocherhans, President; Ruth Owen, Second Counselor; Hazel Mallory, Secretary-treasurer; Irene Taylor, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Kocherhans reports: "We held this convention for all visiting teachers of Grant Stake, and we were very pleased with the performance of our board members. One hundred twenty-five sisters were honored. The stake board presented 'And Then Came the Women,' with the Singing Mothers participating. Irene Taylor gave a tribute to the visiting teachers. Our programs for the event, printed on blue paper, and decorated with a reproduction of the organization of the first Relief Society, as represented on the 'Relief Society plate,' listed the visiting teachers in four categories: those who had served fifty to sixty years (five sisters); those who had served thirty-one to forty-five years (twenty-eight sisters); those who had served twenty-one to thirty years (thirty-eight sisters); and fifty-six sisters who had served fifteen to twenty years." New York Stake (New York), Westchester Ward ''Fashion Sew" June 3, 1966 Lyle N. Paine, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: "The event was titled a 'Fashion Sew' because each model wore something she herself had made, or someone in Westchester Ward Relief Society had made. The theme was 'She Walks in Beauty.' Each sister walked in beauty in a creation handmade by someone who cared enough to sew her very best. Sixty three different outfits were shown. The picture illustrates a beautiful wedding gown of white re-embroidered Alencon lace over 'peau de soie,' with elbow length veil, hand-appliqued in re-embroidered Alencon lace. Modeled by Claire Freedman. The dress was hand-sewed by Lenora Erekson for her daughter Rosalie, who was married to David Stone in the Salt Lake Temple. The pink and white roses were also made by Sister Erekson, and fashioned into a beautiful bouquet by Frances James, who is now president of Westchester Ward Relief Society. Jean Griffith was general chairman of the 'Fashion Sew.' " Hillside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Presents ''Relief Society Royalty' May 13, 1966 Standing, center (at back): Counselor Louise W. Madsen of the General Presidency of Relief Society, representing President Belle S. Spafford; seated at the right of Sister Madsen: Barbara Smith, program chairman, and member Hillside Stake Relief Society Board. Seated, in front, at the left, left to right, stake board members: Evelyn Broschinsky; Sarah Summerhays; Lu Beesley; Ruby Ockey; standing, at left (near the steps), board members: Margaret Kay and Marian Johnson. Seated, at the right, left to right, executive officers of Hillside Stake Relief Society: President Leah C. Wood; Counselors Elda J. Bergesen and Luana G. Henderson; Secretary-Treasurer Helene J. Oman. Sister Wood reports: "Hillside Stake Relief Society presented 'Relief Society Royalty' in the Relief Society Building, May 13, 1966. The nine women who have served as General Presidents of Relief Society were portrayed, and two narrators helped to tell the story. More than 350 women met together in the lovely building, and were picturesquely taken back to the very beginning of Relief Society, up to the living present. The stake Singing Mothers provided the music. Brunch was served. The success of this function might be measured by the large group who came to review the inspiring background of this great organization, and become better acquainted with the women who have stood at its helm." 774 OCTOBER 1966 Grand Junction Stake (Colorado), First Ward Presents Style Show at Closing Social May 5, 1966 Models, left to right: Rae Jones; Marion Pond; Katheryn Curtis (daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Verl Curtis); Gladys Brosius; Melva Sorensen, sewing class instructor. Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society, reports: "As a special feature of their closing social, the Grand Junction First Ward presented a style show of garments completed in the Relief Society tailoring class. The instructor, Sister Sorensen, attended an adult education class at the local junior college, and then met with the sisters to share with them the skills she had learned. Several sisters who participated in the class were not present when the picture was taken. Helen Christensen is homemaking leader; Geneva Darnell is president, with Lola Peterson and Lorraine Hall as her counselors." Union Stake (Oregon), Pilot Rock Branch Sponsors Quilt-Making Project Left to right: President Dona Jo Goold; Arlene Lee; Marilou Hutchison; Ann Crump; Doris Hadden; Velma Last, homemaking leader; Cleona Wendler; Lena Edvalson. Marion Heilner, President, Union Stake Relief Society, reports: "For the past several years, the sisters of the Pilot Rock Branch have done quilting as a building-fund project. The most recent quilt, the one pictured above, was finished for Mrs. Al Ullman, wife of the Representative in Congress from Oregon, living at the present time in Washington, D. C. The quilt top had been pieced by Mrs. Ullman's grandmother. The colors are red, white, and blue. Since there is no chapel in Pilot Rock, the quilting is done in the homes of the sisters, and finished up as soon as possible after being put on the frames. The quilt illustrated above was quilted in one week. "The Pilot Rock Branch leads Union Stake in membership percentage and attendance most of the time. The sisters have ideas for a successful Relief Society, and they carry them out with enthusiasm. Sister Dona Jo Goold, wife of the branch president, has served as Relief Society president for several years." Taylor Stake (Alberta, Canada) Relief Society Board Directs Display and Fashion Show for Social April 30, 1966 Seated, in front, left to right: Alberta Dudley, First Counselor; Vinessa Hamilton, President; Ruth Rice, Second Counselor; Jean Wheeler, chorister. Standing, back row, left to right: Afton Keeler; Lyda Poulson; Colleen Low; Jill Harker; Margaret Hindley; Loretta Dahl; Avilda Harker. Sister Hamilton reports: "The hall was attractively decorated in a spring theme, with each display booth sponsored by one of the wards or branches, and each accentuated our theme 'Relief Society in action.' The booths displayed: Christmas ideas, kitchen articles, art (including water colors and oils by our very talented artists), patio furniture, flower arrangements, sewing items for use by all members of the family, miscellaneous needlework, knitted and crocheted articles, including many lovely dresses, suits, and coats; children's party ideas, children's rooms and doll furniture; and a wedding setting, featuring a bride in her own beautiful gown against a background picturing the Alberta temple, and including her trousseau. "A musical program was held in conjunction with a most inspiring fashion show of teenage and adult fashions, and light refreshments were served to a large and appreciative audience. All of the articles which were on display and in the fashion show were created in the past year, showing that the sisters are constantly adding culture and refinement to their homes. A successful bake sale was also held, and we feel that the stake was unified through cooperative participation." 776 Br gle - oo » = + a, 7 ye ¢ Uintah Stake (Utah), Jensen Ward Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row, seated, left to right: Rose Robinson, chorister; Mary Ann Snow, pianist; Vera Snow; Josephine Stewart; Leta Snow (age 17); Lucinda Sewell (age 84); Ella Ainge; Marilyn Ainge; Gertrude Turner. Second row, standing, left to right: Beverly Shewell; Laura Chew; Gladys Peterson; Nita Powell; Nettie Hill; Eleanor Chew; Ila Peterson; Sylvia Slaugh; Rita Ruppe. Norda G. Cook, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society, reports: "A large percentage of the Jensen Ward Relief Society members belong to this singing group. They perform for many varied gatherings, for the different ward organizations, funerals, and other functions. They are proud to have among the singers the oldest active Singing Mother in Uintah Stake, Lucinda Sewell. Leta Snow, seventeen, is also a member of the group, and is one of the youngest Singing Mothers in the stake." Gooding Stake (Idaho) ''Ideas Fair Exchange"' May 7, 1966 Gooding Ward Relief Society presidency, standing at one of the attractive handicraft booths, left to right: Norma Jenkins, Counselor; Alberta Butler, Counselor; Edith Stutzman, homemaking leader; Carol Sagers, President. Elaine P. Dixon, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports: "Eight wards participated, with attractively decorated booths, displaying many useful and beautiful items. Each ward sponsored a demonstration, including a fashion show of lovely home-sewed clothing for the family." Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 76—How to Act Amid Persecution Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 97; 98:23-48 Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman endures persecution in a spirit INTRODUCTION In the month of July 1833, the persecution of the saints in Jackson County commenced. At the beginning of the following month, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a_ revelation which concerned primarily the saints in Missouri. (D&C 97.) He did not know what had happened to the saints in Jackson County, although he knew that trouble was possible. The Prophet was told in the revelation that many of the Church members in the land of Zion were endeavoring to learn the truths of the gospel, and upon them the Lord would be merciful at the judgment. (D&C 97:1-2.) Special commendation was given to Elder Parley P. Pratt of understanding and forgiveness. Who was conducting the School of Elders in Missouri, and who was laboring diligently to succeed in this calling. (Ibid., verses 3-5.) Elder Pratt walked about six miles, sometimes barefoot, to attend this school held in the outdoors. (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, pp. 93-94.) Not all the saints were acceptable to the Lord, for he said: The ax is laid at the root of the trees; and every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit shall be hewn down and cast into the fire. I, the Lord, have spoken it. Verily I say unto you, all among them who know their hearts are honest, and are broken, and their spirits contrite, and are willing to observe their covenants by sacrifice— yea, every sacrifice which I, the Lord, shall command—they are accepted of me (D&C 97:7-8). 779 OCTOBER 1966 SACRIFICE There are several meanings of sacrifice, but it seems that the one most pertinent to Section 97 is the giving up of some cherished or desired object. The sacrifice required of the saint is the giving up of everything, if necessary— even life itself. (Ibid., 97:13-15; 101:35-38.) To be accepted of the Lord means that the Lord approves of one's actions, but to remain in that condition requires continued faithfulness to commandments. As President Brigham Young points out, in the following, how trivial are some of the sacrifices we make on this earth compared with the greatness of the blessings to be received: Now, you Elders who understand the principles of the kingdom of God, what would you not give, do, or sacrifice, to assist in building up His kingdom upon the earth? Says one, "I would do anything in my power, anything that the Lord would help me to do, to build up His kingdom." Says another, "I would sacrifice all my property." Wonderful indeed! Do you not know that the possession of your property is like a shadow, or the dew of the morning before the noonday sun, that you cannot have any assurance of its control for a single moment! It is the unseen hand of Providence that controls it. In short, what would you not sacrifice? The Saints sacrifice everything; but, strictly speaking, there is no sacrifice about it. If you give a penny for a million of gold! A handful of earth for a planet! A temporary worn out tenement for one glorified, that will exist, abide, and continue to increase throughout a never ending eternity, what a sacrifice to be sure! (Journal of Discourses 1:114). CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss "Sacrifice required in the gospel is insignificant when 780 compared to the blessings to be earned by the faithful." TEMPLE IN JACKSON COUNTY Instructions had been given that a temple should be built in Jackson County, Missouri, and the site had been dedicated, August 3, 1831, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. (D&C 57:3.) Section 97 contains a command to build this temple, and this was the sacrifice required of the people. Above all, its purpose was for the salvation of the members of the Church. It was to be a place of thanksgiving, a place of instruction, a place where the Church might be perfected in all things pertaining to the kingdom of God. This perfection would come through understanding the principles and doctrines of the gospel through the keys which had already been conferred. (Ibid., 97:10-14.) With the fulfillment of this commandment and the sanctity of that edifice being preserved, the promise of the Lord's presence was given. In that temple the pure in heart would see God. CLASS DISCUSSION: What place does the temple have in helping us to keep the commandments? IF ZION DO THESE THINGS If the saints would faithfully discharge their responsibilities as given in Section 97, great blessings would come to the Church in Zion. She would become very great and very glorious in her prosperity. Zion would be honored by the nations, never to be moved out of her place, for it was to be the abode of God. All of this was dependent upon how well Zion—the pure in heart— kept the commandments. At the time Section 97 was received, the saints were already being persecuted in Jackson County, and the order to move or to be killed had been given by the mob. Despite this situation, fully known to the Lord, he promised that if they would do as commanded, Zion could be redeemed. And, now, behold, if Zion do these things she shall prosper.... Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion —THE PURE IN HEART (D&C 97:18, 21). The challenge to be pure in heart was complied with by many but, apparently, not in sufficient strength to warrant the blessings of Zion's redemption at that time. How many must keep the commandments in order to forestall the judgments predicted? In reference to the judgments to be poured out upon the world in the last days, President Brigham Young said if the judgments of God come upon the Latter-day Saints it will be because the majority have turned from the Lord. If six-tenths or three-fourths will keep the commandments the judgments will not come upon them. (Journal of Discourses, 10:335-336.) Appropriate to the meaning of Zion and its application to what has already been written, President Young said: We can make Zion, or we can make Babylon, just as we please. We can make just what we please of this place. The people can make Zion: they can make a heaven within themselves. When people gather here, they should come with a determination to make Zion within themselves, with the LESSON DEPARTMENT resolution that "I will carry myself full of the Spirit of Zion wherever I go; and this is the way in which I will control evil spirits; for I mean that my spirit shall have control over evil:"" and do you not see that such a course will make Zion? (Ibid., 5:4). CLASS DISCUSSION: How does ''making Zion" apply to us in our individual families and homes? COVENANTED ZION The saints in Jackson County, in 1833, as also the _ saints throughout the world today, were under covenant to build Zion, but this could be done only by having the spirit of Zion in their hearts. (D&C 6:6.) To accomplish this goal one must always be on guard against the adversary of righteousness. President Stephen L Richards categorized the present world as "self-sufficient, egotistical, materialistic, and _ skeptical,'' whereas, "The philosophy of Zion is humility, not servility, but a willing recognition of the sovereignty of God and dependence on his providence."' President Richards said that Zion is being attacked from all sides today. The attack is on our concept of personal moral purity, and, in the home, it is the curtailment of the size of the family. A serious aspect of our times is that of indifference and neglect among the membership. Zion, however, will survive, notwithstanding some will succumb to these attacks of Satan. Those, however, who feel themselves self-sufficient, do not enjoy the one great blessing for aid and comfort—the Spirit of God. (Conference Report, October 1951, pp. 110-117.) 781 OCTOBER 1966 SAINTS DID NOT HEED Elder Parley P. Pratt recorded in his Autobiography that the revelation numbered Section 97 was not complied with by the Church leaders in Jackson County, although there were many faithful there. Because Zion did not then consist of sufficient faithful members to bring to pass the fulfillment of Zion's destiny, "the threatened judgment was poured out to the uttermost, as the history of the five following years will show" (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, Deseret Book Company, 1950, page 96). Within that period the saints were expelled from the State of Missouri. JUDGMENTS OF THE LAST DAYS These following verses concerning the judgments to come upon the wicked apply to the time before the second coming of Christ (Conference Report, October 1917, pp. 44-45; SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Progress of Man, page 478): For behold, and lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it? The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come; For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works (D&C 97: 22-24). In the "'Lord's Preface" to the Doctrine and Covenants, given in 1831, it is said that the time will come when peace shall be taken from the earth. (Ibid., 1: 35.) The American Civil War was the beginning war of modern 782 times. (Ibid., 87:1.) As stated in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary: The American Civil War was only the beginning of a series of conflicts, each leading up to the world-war of 1914. This is all the more remarkable, because since the middle of the 19th century, the peace movement in the world assumed so definite proportions as to warrant the hope that there would be no war in the 20th century (page 536). During the Civil War the area of Jackson County was invaded and the land laid to waste. (B. H. Roberts, New Witnesses for God, Vol. 1, pp. 298-299.) Because of wickedness the people of the earth are to feel the wrath and indignation of the Lord. These judgments—the "Lord's scourge"—will continue until the second coming of Christ. ZION SHALL ESCAPE IF In a _ context of promised destruction upon Jackson County, in particular, and the world in general because of wickedness, the revelation then turns to the members of the Church, who are known as "Zion." Nevertheless, Zion shall escape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to all her works with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire (D&C 97: 25-26). The only way of safety is through keeping the commandments. In the words of Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve:... Why should we hope to escape, who have been baptized into this Church, yet ignore the commandments of the Lord? For there are among us those who do not keep the Word of Wisdom, some of us do not pay our tithing; we do not sanctify ourselves by adding unto our faith, virtue; to virtue, knowledge, to knowledge, temperance, and patience, and godliness, and _ brotherly kindness. Why should we claim exemption— we who know the truth, we who have been warned, we who will testify that we believe God has spoken—why should we escape if we do not keep the commandments of the Lord? (Conference Report, June 1919, p. 89). On the other hand, if the Latter-day Saints keep the commandments, the Lord has promised to multiply blessings upon the Church and upon her generations forever. (D&C 97:27-28.) BACKGROUND SECTION 98 Only a few days after Section 97 was received and seventeen days after the Missouri mob began their work of destruction upon the saints, the Lord revealed further information regarding the manner in which they should conduct themselves. The saints were enjoined to be patient in tribulation. Their prayers had been heard and their fulfillment would be realized. The Lord also counseled "and _ all things wherewith you have been afflicted shall work together for your good, and to my name's glory" (Ibid., 98:3). Three laws are explained in this revelation that the saints might know what the Lord commanded of the ancients, and what should be expected of us today. THE LAW OF RETALIATION The first of these laws is the law of retaliation discussed in LESSON DEPARTMENT verses 23 through 32. It requires that families in the Church bear patiently the abuse and smiting of others the first, second, and third time, but if the offense is committed the fourth time, then a warning should be given and, if necessary, the offender should be rewarded according to his works. However, if one patiently endures after the fourth time, his reward will be even greater. The doctrine of patience under persecution is the teaching of the Sermon on the Mount. (Matt. 5:21-22, 43- 44.) THE LAW OF WAR The next law is the law of war. First, we should understand that anciently the Lord told his people when they could go to war. Then they would be justified. War in itself was not the object of life, and if a nation would come against his people they should sue for peace. If, after this, the enemy did not accept this offer of peace the second or third time, the Lord would fight their battles. This promise extended to their children's children to the third and fourth generations. (D&C 28:33-38.) Ancient Israel was not to go to war until their peace offers were refused. (Deut. 20:10 cf.; 2:26- 29.) The Book of Mormon provides us with a concept of war that is consistent with the counsel given in Section 98. (Alma 48:14-16.) The Nephites believed that, notwithstanding the Lord would fight their battles if they kept his commandments, it was necessary that they do everything possible to bring about victory in war. In charging Pahoran, the governor of the land, with with- 783 OCTOBER 1966 holding men and supplies with which to fight the Lamanites, Moroni wrote him as follows: Or do ye suppose that the Lord will still deliver us, while we sit upon our thrones and do not make use of the means which the Lord has provided for us? (Alma 60:21). An official statement, adopted in 1831, gives the position of the Church regarding this principle: We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated. To secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience (D&C 134:5). THE LAW OF FORGIVENESS In closing Section 98, the law of forgiveness is given. This law contains the elements of the other two laws in this revelation. Repeated transgressions by one people or nation against another should be forgiven. This practice of forgiveness should be continued as long as they repent; however, if they do not repent, then the nation should bear it patiently, even unto the third time. If it happens the fourth time, they should not be forgiven and these testimonies should be brought before the Lord. Repentance should include four-fold restitution. If, however, repentance is not made, then their children unto the third and fourth generation should receive the Lord's vengeance. If the children or their children should repent, no judgment would fall upon them. (D&C 98:39-48.) As pointed out above, a nation should not engage in an offensive war, but it has the right to defend itself against those who come against her. President Charles W. Penrose counseled the Latter-day Saints against the desire to shed blood or to destroy. (Conference Report, April 1917, pp. 20-22.) Effort should be made to avert war. But if a country is drawn into a war after having tried to keep out of the conflict, every effort should be made to win the victory, as indicated in this lesson earlier. FOR CONSIDERATION How can you, as Latter-day Saint women, teach your children to be diligent and willing to sacrifice for one another and for the Church? BEING EDUCATED "Being educated means to prefer the best not only to the worst but to the second best," said a good friend and philosopher, William Lyon Phelps. Often we are put on the spot to justify an education for a person if he does not make more money than an uneducated person, and surprisingly enough, many do not. The above quotation is another good reason for having an education — to raise one's tastes, to lift standards, to help one be satisfied with only the best — the best literature, the best homemaking, the best performance in any art. Especially is it necessary for one to set a high standard in Church service. Only excellence is worthy for the Lord. 784 —Caroline Eyring Miner VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 76 — ''Ask and Ye Shall Receive' (D&C 103:35) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show that ail that man receives requires his The Lord loves all people. He lived to teach them, and died to save them. Repeatedly in the scriptures, he said, "Ask and ye shall receive." inviting the establishment of a close, loving relationship with him. ''Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shal] be opened unto you" (D&C 88: 63). What greater or warmer invitation could one have? And yet men find him not, and many of our world despair and claim that God is dead. Is it possible that they and, perhaps, sometimes we, misunderstand the nature of that invitation of the Lord? A child of six kneels at his mother's knee and prays that tomorrow the sun will shine so that the family can go on a planned picnic. It rains all the next day. The seed of doubt is planted and he asks "'Didn't God hear me?" This presents a "teaching moment" for the mother — an opportunity to help the child understand that the farmer was probably praying for rain. The mother's purpose is to help her child to mature in prayer as he matures in age to effort as well as God's help. The point where he eventually can pray: "Not my will, but thine, be done." A few years ago a couple and their children pulled off the highway when they remembered that they had not prayed before leaving home. As they turned back onto the highway into the path of oncoming cars, a car hit them broadside, killing their fiveyear-old child. That such tragedy should result when the intent was so well meaning may prompt some to ask, "Why would God have allowed this?" But we must remember that the laws of the universe cannot be set aside, and that one should drive with responsible care. The righteous prayers of that family were heard, but a rule of safety was broken. There are many _ instances where prayers ascend to heaven requesting contradictory answers as in the case of opposing teams or contestants, or on the battlefield, or even in the case of the child requesting sunshine and the farmer praying for rain. In our prayers do we not often misunderstand our responsibility and the Lord's purposes and will? If we approach God as a loving Father, for what do we ask? We 785 OCTOBER 1966 thoughtfully and prayerfully consider our role in our request. Have we done all that we can do in addition to seeking divine aid? Have we studied the scriptures carefully so that we know the Lord's suggestions as to what we should pray for? Do we carefully weigh our responsibilities and ask the question, "Am I doing what is expected of me?" The scriptures tell us that man should ask in mighty prayer, nothing wavering, drawing near unto the Lord in humility, seeking him diligently in faith, and walking uprightly before him. HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show how a budget sets up guidelines which INTRODUCTION The scriptures tell us_ that "love of money is the root of all evil." Without denying the validity of this statement, it should also be said that careful and wise manipulation and disposition of money can and does work for the good of mankind. There is a continuing reason why a family should practice thrift and wise spending. This reason ls valid whether the family is one just beginning or one'in any of the later stages of develop-. Ment up to and through retirement. This reason has its origin deeply rooted in the irrefutable law that one cannot spend indis-. Criminately his money, his talent,. His energy, or whatever he may possess without diminishing his supply and, eventually, depleting it. Every family has certain goals and objectives which are vital to its well-being. Their attainment 786 help solve financial problems. Involves careful financial planning and management, best accomplished through the establishment and use of a budget — a personalized system of money management which will help the family to achieve its own goals and objectives. FORMULATING A PLAN OF EXPENDITURES Family money management by means of a well-planned budget develops in each family member an understanding of his or her responsibility by showing what it costs to live and the need for making the right choices. It does not mean rigidly following some plan worked out by an expert and involving complicated bookkeeping. A family should design its own budget and shape it to serve the needs, interests, and desires of its members. In making any budget, four procedures are useful to most families: (1) Estimating family income; (2) Calculating fixed expenses; (3) Planning daily expenditures, including incidentals; (4) Planning savings and emergency funds. ESTIMATING FAMILY INCOME An appraisal of the family income will include 'take-home pay" from wages, regular salary, commissions, part-time earnings, as well as monies from pensions, rental income, dividends, interest, or any additional income which might be forthcoming. Discusss: Why is it wise to plan on the basis of the average minimum rather than the average maximum income? CALCULATING FIXED EXPENDITURES Every family has certain expenses which must be paid at certain times throughout the year — monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually. These expenses should be listed under the month in which they fall due. If they cannot be paid out of one pay check, the total should be divided into periodic payments and a reserve fund started. The list of fixed expenditures should include the following: (1) Tithing and Church contributions. (2) Taxes. These include federal, state, and city income taxes; personal property taxes, and any others that might apply. (3) Rent and fixed housing expenses. This might include mortgage payments or others that apply. (4) Debts. These include amounts due on_ household equipment, bank loans, or any other financial obligations. (5) Insurance. This includes life insurance, health and accident policies, liability insurance, fire insurance, and any other policies the family may carry. PLANNING DAILY EXPENDITURES Day-to-day living costs offer daily opportunities to practice LESSON DEPARTMENT wise spending. The principal items that are usually included in daily expenses are the following: (1) Food. This includes all expenditures for meals eaten at home or meals eaten out, as well as all food accessories such as beverages, snacks. (2) Household services. These should include supplies, repairs, operation, facilities, laundry, and cleaning, etc. (3) Clothing. This includes all wearing apparel, materials, and upkeep. (4) Automobile and_ transportation costs. These include gasoline and oil, repairs and maintenance, and any public transportation costs. (5) Medical care. This category covers the services of physicians and dentists, medical supplies, and all such expenses not covered by insurance. (6) Personal allowances. This is one of the important parts of the family spending plan, for it gives each member a feeling of independence and interest in cooperating with the plan. (7) Family development and recreation. This includes creative and artistic development (music lessons or development of other skills), vacation, equipment for sports and other leisure activities. (8) Variables. Differing localities, climates, and other variables would add to or take from this list. Discuss: John and Mary spend everything they earn and save nothing. Discuss how a budget plan can remedy this situation. PLANNING SAVINGS AND EMERGENCY FUNDS Every family should make some provision for saving in their financial plan. Regular saving helps a family to achieve a sense of security. When possible, it should be large enough to cover both emergency funds and longterm goals such as_ education, missions, retirement, vacations, and other desired attainments. Savings are the result of careful planning and, usually, the renouncing of some present desires. 787 A SIMPLE MONTHLY TIMATED MONTH SNCOME FIXED EXPENDITURES BEFORE | TAKE | TITHING | TAXES | RENT | DEBTS|INSURANCE DEDUC- | HOME AND TIONS | PAY FIXED EXPENSES JANUARY FEBRUARY March through December are recorded the same as the above two month In the beginning a daily record should be kept and the totals recorded in the above form. (A loose-leaf note-book will serve the purpose.) Most banks and insurance companies provide free budget forms for the asking. Discuss: 1. Sam and Ruth put away so much that they feel deprived and frustrated in their everyday living. Why is this unwise? 2. There are times when financial demands are so heavy that the entire income is not sufficient to cover regular living expenses so that saving seems neither practical nor feasible. Discuss possible solutions. MAKING THE SPENDING PLAN BALANCE Wise planning and conscientious effort on the part of all members of the family are required to formulate and carry out a suc- 788 cessful budget plan, but once it is accomplished it will bring the income, expenditures, and savings of the family into a balance and will result in blessings of lasting benefit and fulfillment to all its members. WHEN MAKING YOUR BUDGET, KEEP IN MIND THE FOLLOWING 1. The family should make its own plan to fit its own particular situation. 2. The plan should be made simple and practical. 3. The plan should be realistic— neither overly ambitious nor ultra conservative. 4. The plan should be carefully and conscientiously followed. S—January and February we AMILY BUDGET PLAN DAILY EXPENDITURES SAVINGS EMERGENCIES FOOD HOUSEHOLD SERVICES CLOTHING CAR AND TRANSPORTATION MEDICAL CARE PERSONAL ALLOWANCES VARIABLES RECREATION AND OTHER ES a SOCIAL RELATIONS — On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 1 — On Earth and in Heaven Reference: On Earth and in Heaven (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual - 1967) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To consider the general subject of law as it affects mankind, and to emphasize that through the operation of jaw an immutable alliance binds earth to heaven. INTRODUCTION It is impossible, perhaps to overemphasize the importance of law in our lives, for man has always existed within a framework of law. It operates in all areas of life and in all states of being. Neither nature nor mankind can 789 OCTOBER 1966 be divorced from its influence. Since the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons and the Home Evening Manual focus "upon the law and its meaning for the individual as a Church member and as a citizen," the Social Relations lessons of Relief Society will correlate with this general theme. This introductory lesson will invite discussion on the _ general subject of law as it affects mankind, emphasizing a consideration of the immutable alliance between heaven and earth. In a general discussion of law we may properly consider: (1) divine law which is associated with the creation and operation of the universe, spoken of as natural law; (2) divine commandments which are associated with man's individual development toward perfection; and (3) laws which are instituted by man, by actual legislation or developed through custom and known as "laws of the land."' Involved in all law is the factor of enforcement by authority, whether that authority be the divine will of the Creator, or as in the area of manmade laws, the compulsion of personal conscience, the authority of the tribe, the community, or the sovereign state. NATURAL LAW We associate the term natural law with the fundamental laws of creation and operation of the universe. They are basic and they are immovable for they are eternal. "The entire universe is governed by law' (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: The Progress of Man, page 26)... He hath given a law unto all 790 things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets (D&C 88:42-48). The Prophet Joseph Smith is author of the following statements regarding the universe and its operation by law:... If man has grown to wisdom and is capable of discerning the propriety of laws to govern nations, what less can be expected from the Ruler and Upholder of the universe? Can we suppose that He has a kingdom without laws?... We admit that God is the great source and fountain from whence proceeds all good; that He is perfect intelligence, and that His wisdom is alone sufficient to govern and regulate the mighty creations and worlds which' shine and blaze with such magnificence and splendor over our heads as though touched with His finger and moved by His Almighty word. And if so. It is done and regulated b. Law: for without law all must certainly fall into chaos (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING. Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Page 55). In reference to the fact that law underlies and permeates the very fabric of existence, since it is fundamental, we read_ the words of the Nephite prophet Lehi, who discussed with his son Jacob, the law of opposition in all things: And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness. And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment nor misery. And _ if these are not there is no God. And if there is no God we are not, neither the earth; for there could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to be acted upon... (2 Nephi 2:13). CONSISTENCY IN NATURE That the laws of nature operate with consistency is evident to those who observe carefully and who study seriously the physical world in which we live, for God's house is a house of order. This orderliness, this consistency of performance, which brings predictable results, indicates an infinitely wise Creator and reveals an adherence to his divine plan. Is it not reasonable, therefore, to say that where nature appears to us as inconsistent and capricious, it is because we do not understand all factors which constitute the law? Would a miracle be considered as such, if we knew and understood all facets of the laws which produce the miracle? The Lord, being omniscient, can perform miracles in his wisdom, however the faithful member of the Church depends on faith in times of stress in the absence of miracles. We may observe, also, that when we are in conflict with natural law, whether consciously or unknowingly, we experience the results of violation. Examples: 1. Ignorance of the burning effect of fire does not protect a child's hand from injury, if brought into contact with a flame. 2. Lack of knowledge regarding the law of gravity does not prevent one's falling earthward from a cliff. REVEALED TO ADAM Mortal man's first laws came through revelation to Adam who taught them to his children. That they were of spiritual import, defining the relationship of man's earth-experience with his ultimate destiny, may be. Implied from the following: Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, LESSON DEPARTMENT and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal (D&C 29:34). In the light of the foregoing scripture, may we say that the commandments of God _ are actually statements of divine law, obedience to which will bring and sustain man in harmony with natural laws and the will of the Creator for his children? Particularly relevant is the following modern scripture: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is_ predicated (D&C 130: 20-21). The scripture and the truth which are basic to this irrevocable law may be so generally familiar to us that we fail to realize and consider how actual and fundamental they are, and how specifically they apply to even the small details of each day's activities. They apply also to the acquiring of qualities we wish to incorporate into our personalities. Class Involvement Discussion 1. What particular disciplines are required in order to be: sincere, kind, humble, gracious, honest, and to acquire empathy? 2. What particular disciplines are required for forgiveness? Can one forgive an injury without complying with those disciplines? No reasonable person wishes to be selfish, for he knows that selfishness alienates friends, even loved ones; he knows that selfishness deprives a person of the capacity truly to love others. 791 OCTOBER 1966 What are the necessary qualifications one must possess in order to fulfill the law upon which unselfishness is based? Class Involvement Discussion Discuss other personal or group blessings which require similar compliance with the laws involved. How do the familiar phrases, cause and effect and compensation in all things relate to the irrevocable law referred to in the foregoing modern scripture? The class members might consider the following life illustration: Woman A. How I wish I could play the piano as well as you do. If I could, I would accompany my husband when he sings. I have always been interested in music. Woman B. You don't really wish you could play the piano. If you did, you would. You would need, however, to have and acquire all that the laws of musicianship demand — the desire, the know-how, and consistent practicing. LAWS OF MAN The laws of man are not perfect as are the laws of God because they are not made by perfect beings. Latter-day Saints have been counseled to elect wise and just men to fill public office and to enact laws which will guarantee the inalienable nights of the individual. (D&C 101:77.) In a declaration of belief regarding governments and laws in general, we have the following: We believe... That: all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience (D&C 134:5). 792 INFLUENCE OF DIVINE WILL Although most of the posterity of Adam did not obey the divine laws which were their heritage, the influence of such laws is found in rules for human conduct which man has legislated into law through the generations. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared: It is reasonable to suppose that man departed from the first teachings, or instructions which he received from heaven in the first age, and refused by his disobedience to be governed by them. Consequently, he formed such laws as best suited his own mind, or as he supposed, were best adapted to his situation. But that God has influenced man more or less since that time in the formation of law for his benefit we have no hesitancy in believing; for, as before remarked, being the source of all good, every just and equitable law was in a greater or less degree influenced by Him. And though man in his own supposed wisdom would not admit the influence of a power superior to his own, yet for wise and great purposes, for the good and happiness of His creatures, God has _ instructed man to form wise and wholesome laws, since he had departed from Him and refused to be governed by those laws which God had given by His own voice from on high in the beginning (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 57.) ON EARTH AND IN HEAVEN The phrase "On earth and in heaven" suggests to the mind something held in common, held by both earth and heaven. In this lesson we use the implication of the phrase as being something shared for mutual benefit, as a covenant between earth and heaven — an alliance between earth-life and eternity. What constitutes this bond or covenant? What are some of the specifics which form this significant alliance? The laws of men, legislated upon earth, which honor man's inherent right of choice, contribute to this alliance between earth and heaven; also, all laws which foster in men a love of justice, and of brotherly watchcare, that motivate equitable self-sacrifice in the interest of those who are less fortunate; laws which motivate men to be better individuals and thus advance their progress toward perfection, all these help to ally earth with heaven. Latter-day Saints know that the gospel of Jesus Christ, formulated in the heavens and bestowed as a blessing to man in the flesh and also throughout eternity, operates in conformity with divine law. This gospel is a covenant between earth life and eternal life.. Class Involvement Discussion A covenant involves a_ promise. What promise in this covenant does God make? The family of man receives the promise of immortality. In addition, and on an individual basis, man is promised eternal life in the celestial kingdom, with all its attendant blessings. What promise in this covenant does man make? He promises to obey the laws upon which the blessings of the gospel are predicated. Both commandment and promise bind us to eternity. SPECIAL DELEGATED POWER Associated with the gospel is the earthly exercise of the delegated power and authority of the Priesthood. Relief Society women have studied its function. They know of and do experience its manifold blessings. Because of the sealing power of this divine. LESSON DEPARTMENT law of authority, our departed families, and the promises of heaven are brought nearer to us. Of the sealing power we read: It may seem to some to be a very bold doctrine that we talk of a power which records or binds on earth and binds in heaven. Nevertheless, in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a dispensation of the priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given. Hence, whatsoever those men did in authority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth and in heaven and could not be annulled, according to the decrees of the great Jehovah (D&C 128:9). Now, the nature of this ordinance consists in the power of the priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is granted that whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven (D&C 128:8). The President of the Church alone holds the keys of this sacred Priesthood power. Its function and use are regulated by a divine edict. Supreme in this alliance is the Savior himself — the Creator of both heaven and earth. He is the Mediator ——- man's Advocate with the Father — and he is the embodiment of divine law. How very blessed is all mankind through this alliance! For Discussion How may family members. Be taught to honor and respect civil law and to appreciate its protection and security? For Home-doing Analyze two or three virtues you would like to acquire or to improve, as to the disciplines necessary for their acquisition. Intensify your effort to acquire them, by specific and consistent action. 793 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 3 — Humility Yields Strength "Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights."' Henry David Thoreau Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: As she is teachable, a woman is able to help others become receptive to the inner strengths of meekness and gentility. @ We live in an age in which the majority of Christians still subscribe to the Christian virtue, humility, yet who among us has ever seen a plea for a humble young man or woman in "Help Wanted" advertisements? We can't quite explain this away by insisting that business is a world apart; for our general teachings to children, both at home and at school, are consistent in their support of standing up for rights, being at the top of the class, and winning in sports. We seldom think positively about humility. If we consider it at all, it is usually as a counter to pride. Almost invariably it carries connotations of weakness. The writers who illuminate the concept of humility in this month's lesson share the conviction that it is an attitude rather than a state and that it can be a dynamic, positive force in our lives if we understand it. The short poems which open our consideration of humility reflect markedly different views. Emily Dickinson's short lines stress the independence yet unifying effect of humility. Whittier's "First Day Thoughts" points out the self-discipline that conscious humility brings, and 794 Bunyan's "The Shepherd Boy's Song" emphasizes the dynamic contentment of the humble. In "The Guests of Mrs. Timms," humility is saved from identification with timidity and uncertainty, and in "Mother," we find the difference between service and servility clearly illustrated. John Woolman concludes the section with a record of his personal experience which shows that control is basic to meekness that can result in_ spiritual growth. In humility so presented we truly see the heavenly lights. For as we read it begins to become evident that humility is more than the absence of vanity. It exists as an unassuming—but immensely positive and powerful —source of strength. It is not given by default but must be achieved in effort as rewarding as it is quiet. (From introduction to Section III of text, paragraphs 2 and 3.) LINES FROM EMILY DICKINSON How happy is the little stone That rambles in the road alone, And doesn't care about careers, And exigencies never fears; Whose coat of elemental brown A passing Universe put on; And independent as the sun, Associates or glows alone, Fulfilling absolute decree In casual simplicity. Despite the casual tone of these lines, the explicit glories of humility are revealed with precision that repays the closest analysis. The choice of words is especially exciting. Note '"rambles" in the second line, for instance. Miss Dickinson apparently feels that it is too easy to equate having goals and direction with a positive approach to life. As the next line suggests, some "careers"? May not be positive. Further suggestion that freedom from the dictates of vanity can be appealing is given in the suggestion that we should not put on our own outer covering in slavish adherence to fashion but should let nature clothe us with that which is essential and appropriate. To reduce one's life to essentials is not to take the easy path, for such reduction requires discriminating choice, and when one has arrived at the truly important, it is a comfort to tind that the truth unites all people who are anxiously seeking it. FIRST DAY THOUGHTS In calm and cool and silence, once again I find my among My brethren, where, perchance, no human tongue Shall utter words; hymn is sung, Nor deep-toned organ blown, nor censer swung, Nor dim light falling through the pictured pane. There, syllabled by silence, let me hear The still small voice which reached the prophet's ear; Read in my heart a still diviner law old accustomed place where never LESSON DEPARTMENT Than Israel's leader on his_ tables saw! There let me strive with each besetting sin, Recall my wandering fancies, and restrain The sore disquiet of a restless brain; And, as the path of duty is made plain, May grace be given that I may walk therein, Not like the hireling, for his selfish gain, With backward glances and reluctant tread, Making a merit of his coward dread, But, cheerful, in the light around me thrown, ee as one to pleasant service ed; Doing God's will as if it were my own, Yet trusting not in mine, but in His strength alone! Few groups have sought more earnestly to become receptive to the still, small voice of conscience than the Society of Friends or Quakers of which Whittier was a member. "First Day Thoughts" is typical of Quaker effort to submit to the will of God as that will is made manifest in the heart. THE SHEPHERD BOY'S SONG This little poem occurs in the second part of Pilgrim's Progress in which Christian's wife and children undertake to follow their husband and father. Under the guidance of Mr. Greatheart, the pilgrims reach the Valley of Humiliation. Here they come upon a coarsely clad shepherd boy and listen to his artless song. THE SHEPHERD BOY'S SONG He that is down need fear no fall, He that is low, no pride; He that is humble, ever shall Have God to be his guide, I am content with what I have, Little be it, or much; - And, Lord, contentment still I crave, Because thou savest such. 795 OCTOBER 1966 Fulness to such, a burden is, That go on pilgrimage; Here little, and hereafter bliss, Is best from age to age. —John Bunyan (1628-1688) The theme of these lines is contentment, which gives earthly peace of mind yet prepares us to accept heaven's bounty. The contentment which Bunyan emphasizes is not resignation. It is awareness that we must prepare ourselves for the truly good by ridding ourselves of the false. Whittier's self-discipline enables him to give both personal and general meaning to his. Religious worship. Bunyan would divest himself of obvious world cares. Whittier must forego the religious devices which seem to be a part of worship, but which actually get in the way of a simple, responsible relationship with God. In both cases there is a yielding of one's own will to the will of God, but in neither case is the surrender one of weakness. It takes all the strength we can muster to achieve the receptive attitude that is a critical characteristic of humility. THE GUESTS OF MRS. TIMMS This story by Sarah Orne Jewett gives us both positive and negative views of humility. The two main characters, Mrs. Flagg and Miss Pickett, demonstrate that humility is neither uncertainty nor timidity. In fact, the counterfeit meekness they display is frighteningly close to vanity. It hardly matters that Miss Pickett is really rather sensitive; she may see her problem more clearly than the obtuse Mrs. Flagg, but she really does very little about it. One cannot be truly humble by being sensi- 796 tive only to oneself. Only Nancy Fell, who is hardly more than an afterthought for the visitors, exemplifies the humility which can reach out to others without affectation. In her own lack of ostentation, she can make others feel wanted and special. Since she is not preoccupied with herself, she can listen to others tell of their experiences. How revealing of Miss Fell's real compassion for her visitors is Miss Pickett's comment concerning how '"'desirous" she was to have them recount to her the details of a recent church conference. Someone as humble as Nancy Fell might not need to pretend interest. Quite possibly she was capable of getting enjoyment out of the simplest account. Henry David Thoreau once insisted that wealth was not a matter of accumulation but of reducing your wants so they could be satisfied. It is almost a shock to realize that Nancy Fell had so prepared herself that she could actually enjoy a visit from Mrs. Flagg and Miss Pickett! Class Discussion Do we feel any sympathy with Mrs. Flagg or Miss Pickett? Will their experience in this story change them? What meaning does it have to you? MOTHER This excerpt from the novel by Kathleen Norris contrasts not only the impatience of youth with the serenity of age, but, more significantly, lets us participate as a vain young girl starts to become a humble, mature woman. Few stories show the "sladness" of humility more effectively. Professor Penison's comment that he has finally discovered what Margaret's mother "sets out" of unending effort and sacrifice, is revealing: 'There's something magnificent in a woman like your mother, who, instead of one destiny, starts eight! Responsibility—that's what people are afraid of! But it seems to me there's no responsibility like that of decreeing that young lives simply shall not be." These lines catch the distinctive quality of Mrs. Paget's humility. It is a humility born of willing service, anxious love. Mrs. Paget is not a doormat, and she is not stupid. She has chosen her role gladly and _ realistically. Providing for a family of ten on a limited income means _ that some of the so-called amenities of life must go. But her attitude is not a resigned one. She is not simply "putting up" with circumstance; she is adapting to it both skillfully and happily. True humility is not achieved by resentful acceptance. Remember the tactful but pointed comment of Alma (Alma 32) to the poor who had been denied entry to places of worship in The Book of Mormon. It is not our condition but our attitude that is crucial. Class Discussion At what point does service become servility? In 'Mother,' what really helps Margaret most in her re-understanding of her family? FROM THE JOURNAL OF JOHN WOOLMAN John Woolman's' Journal shares with Pilgrim's Progress the praise which is always due the simple account which never turns into the superficial. Woolman's humility is that of deliberately narrowed choice. His happiness is that which accompanies being in control of circumstances rather than being controlled by LESSON DEPARTMENT circumstance. Nothing is more impressive in Woolman's writing than his willingness to face the consequences of his choices. He doesn't pretend that making his wants few is necessarily easy; it is only "through the mercies of the Almighty" that he learns to be content with little. But once having learned this lesson, he can make his deliberate poverty rewarding. This modest Quaker was persuaded to publish his journal in the hope that it might inspire others to do good works. It is appropriate to conclude this lesson with the words of a man who so successfully avoided the ultimate test of humility—being proud of one's lack of pride. As someone has put it flippantly but truly, the hardest part of being humble is not to wear your humility pin! Woolman's Journal is saved from preachment, which is fatally easy to discount or ignore, by its focus on one man's experience. One can evaluate experience but not argue it. Woolman's final, tactful advice to those who are engaged in business and might be corrupted by it, is to remember not his own advice but that of the prophet Jeremiah. Few writers have been able to combine the forthright and the humble with the enduring success manifest in John Woolman's Journal. Class Discussion To what extent do you agree with Woolman that "every degree of luxury hath some connection with evil'? Note the context in which this is put, and his careful qualifications in the statement itself. 797 MOTHER-OF-PEARL Susan Diane Clement My mother means a loving smile Upon life's stormy sea; A gentle hand, a knowing heart, All these, and more, to me. She laughs with me and shares my joys, Shares all my sorrows, too; She gives me strength, and when | fall, She starts me out anew. She has borne her heavy load Long and valiantly— Without her life's companion, She has been father and mother to me. O Lord, wilt thou watch over her And give her strength the while Until the day she's called away, My mother and her smile. THE OPEN DOOR Verda F. Welch If God should close a door to thee, Another door will opened be. Our path is not illumined clear. Walk thou by faith, said he. I'll gently lead thee by the hand; I'll bless and comfort thee. The sorrow and the tears that flow; The trouble, and the loss Are part of life's refining fire To sift thee from the dross. The fire will but humble thee, And help thee see more clear The heavy load thy brother bears; His heartache, and his fear. In loving service thou shalt find New vistas, rich and rare; A recompense, a joy so sweet, And glory of heaven there. 798 SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOUR October 24 HAWAII October 11 HAWAII November 18 ROSE PARADE December 27 am HAWAII January 1967 MEXICO February 1967 Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 BEAUTIFUL HANDY SOUTHERN PARKS DURABLE 'ames NEW ENGLAND-CANADIAN A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society MagaFALL TOUR zine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and September 3 paeting house is Raanared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to HAWAIIAN the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. ALOHA WEEK TOUR 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 P Phone 486-1892 '4 October 15 to 30 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included ROSE PARADE TOUR Advance payment must accompany all orders. Via San Francisco Please include postage according to table listed Dec. 27—Jan. 3 below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah ROSE PARADE TOUR Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6 90 Via San Diego Dec. 27—Jan. 3 James Travel Tours [ DESERET [PEws PRESS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 wih AMERICA. W. Cleon Skousen Feb. 7 Departure MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF SOUTH AMERICA. MURDOCK TRAVEL City 799 Mrs. Pauline B. Wale 9] Mrs. Myrtle May Tuttle Webster 101 Salt Lake City, Utah McMinnville, Oregon Mrs. Martha Coffin Torgeson Ogden, Utah 97 Mrs. Leota Henderson Bigelow Oakland, California Mrs. Amanda Johnson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rhoda Ann McClellan Cardon El Paso, Texas Mrs. Sabina Chidester Yates Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Amanda Barron Norton Mrs. Emily C. Zaugg Salt Lake City, Utah Clearfield, Utah Mrs. Emily Phillips Rolsson Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Lindsey Bennion Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Rushf 95 Kaysville, Utah ee "90 Mrs. Elizabeth Gealta Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Malinda Cook Briggs Syracuse, Utah Mrs. Edith Oleson Schmidt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amelia Heppler Hansen Richfield, Utah Mrs. Maude Witt Heber City, Utah Mrs. Adria Brough Muir 94 Mrs. Josephine Brobert Monson Randolph, Utah Salt Lake City Utah ' linda Thompson Mrs. Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines _ encom _ - Logan, Utah Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Stalder Bengilli 93 Mrs. Laura Christensen Watkins Lane Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Vella Lambourne Mrs. Clara Maria Munk Anderson Salt Lake City, Utah Manti, Utah Mrs. Nannie Tuck Hackworth St. Anthony, Idaho 9? Mrs. Ada Carter Sutton Mrs. Elnora Christina Ellertson Kay Salt Lake City, Utah Mona, Utah 800 FROM DESERET BOOK By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 Postpaid anywhere This new book, patterned after the successful first volume, is themed to "Love, Marriage, and the Family." The material will be used with the Cultural Refinement course. Full-color illustrations enhance the choice literature and discussion materials prepared by Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas. A wonderful and colorful way of brightening up your Spiritual Living lessons making them more meaningful and memorable. Includes copies of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, a chart showing the growth of the Church, reproductions of famous paintings, and colorful pictures depicting the work of the Church $ 1.25 Postpaid anywhere T Deseret Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 312% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. Total$ nn, NW ces Address 0, Gite wc.; _ State = _.. Zip OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! A Send me []OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 1] [] PICTURE PACKET—SPIRITUAL 
