The Flowers' Mission A Parable (Dedicated to the General and Stake Relief Society Boards) By Lucy May Green Near the center of a beautiful valley, not far from the shores of a vast inland sea, the Master planted a harvest field, The soil was rich and fertile, there was plenty of water, and there was every promise of an abundant harvest. The servants of the Master called many laborers into the harvest field, some worked with vigor and zeal, others quickly became tired, and sought the shade of the many trees that grew by the wayside. Many did not work at all, some were sick and sad, others were easily discouraged, and some were very poor. The servants of the Master who were in direct charge of the harvest field took counsel together, for they realized the gravity of the situation. The harvest truly was great but the laborers were indeed few. Unto the soul of their leader the Master gave this message: "Truly the harvest is great and the workers faint by the wayside. Plant for them a garden of sweet smelling flowers wherein they can rest sometimes, enjoy the fragrance of the roses and lilies and receive inspiration and renewed strength for their work in the harvest field." The servants ot the Master accepted their leader's message, and the garden was prepared and flowers were planted: therein. First came the rose with her exquisite perfume, whose beauty of form and color and regal bearing proclaimed her Queen of the summer. Close to the rose was planted the tall white lily, with its heart of gold, and its chalice ever open to receive and hold the dew from heaven. Its sweetness and purity charmed all who saw it. From His garden above the Master transplanted the geranium, sturdy and strong, blooming incessantly, and bringing its message of cheer alike to rich and poor. Next was chosen the dainty four o'clock, of various color, its blossoms opening at precisely the same hour each afternoon and closing next morning with like precision. The peony was included for its decorative value, its richness of form and color, its sturdy strength and hardy endurance. In a corner grew the fragrant mignonette dressed in quiet, sombre colors, but dearly loved by the bees for its honey, and by all for its exquisite odor. A tall lilac bush stood in the corner, the wind rustling through its leaves, made sweet music and stirred up its elusive spicy perfume. 
 A bed of canterburv bells charmed the eyes and ears of all with their dainty grace and fairy-like music. The dahlia was chosen for its sturdy strength, its hardy growth and its multitude of many colored blossoms. In many shady corners grew the lily of the valley, its waxen flowers oft hidden by its leaves, its presence only betrayed by its delicious odor. On a trellis grew a vine of great beauty, whose flowers were a source of strength to the bees, birds and all who rested in the shade of the delicate honeysuckle. From the greenhouse the Master chose the carnation with its ethereal loveliness, its dainty symmetry of form and its Jasting qualities. In many a hardy clump grew the shasta daisy, with its fringed petals, its face turned to the heavens, and its heart of living gold. Modest, sweet, of exquisite shape and velvety texture, like unto the dainty face of a tiny child, the pansy stood, emblem of sweet and beautiful thoughts. Of heaven's own blue, flecked with yellow of the sun, small, dainty, but once known is always remembered the for-getme-not. Tall, stately, its golden head ever turned to the sun, and its wealth of flowers enjoyed by all, the hardy golden glow was planted. From the fields the Master chose a humble flower of many colored bloom, its rich, glossy foliage, wealth of blossom, and profusion of seed loved by everyone, the hollyhock. The petunia border was truly a delight with its hardy blossoms and its spicy oriental perfume. From the hillside nearby was transplanted a tall pine tree, the wind blowing through its branches made sweet music, and the hearts of the toilers were made glad as they rested in the shade of the evergreen. The chrysanthemum was brought from the Orient with its choice tints, its feathery foliage, and curving petals, its blooming season lasting far into the winter. Many other flowers bloomed in the garden. These blossoms flowered, filling the air with sweetness and beauty, then were transplanted elsewhere. The garden was fenced with Faith, Hope and Charity. Its fence posts were unselfishness, and united efforts and its open gates were Service unto all mankind. The Master came unto the garden and He saw that it was good, and unto the hearts of the flowers He whispered this message: "In the midst of my harvest field this garden has been planted to bring joy and comfort to all who labor therein. Go! Fill your mission, my flowers, teach them the joy of service. THE FLOWERS' MISSION 155 With your music tell them of the Father's love, bring unto their lives sweetness, strength and beauty." So the flowers are filling their mission of love and often the workers in the harvest field rest in the garden, and the flowers go to all corners of the harvest field, and wherever they go, the tired workers raise their heads refreshed and with renewed courage continue their labors. The Master looking down from above sheds His divine approval upon all. +e oe This parable is an appreciation of the faithful labors of the General and Stake Boards of the Relief Society. The harvest field is the Church, the servants of the Master represent the Priesthood, the laborers are the Relief Society workers, the garden is the Society itself, and the flowers are the General and Stake officers.