=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===

REU EFS JjIA.GAZ.lNJg OCI EiY ^ JUNE, 1918. General Conference of the Relief Society Our New Board Member Insects of the Home Garden Conservation Pointers Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. No. 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year^^Single Copy 10c. » l)^@I( L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of The Sign of Comfort Quality I 9Adfi€!il^. * J If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. style Style 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.50 66 Mercerized, light wt.,bleached S.50 75 Cotton, medium wt.,bleached92.25 2 Unbranded, Special, medium 90 Cotton, heavy wt., unbleached 2.50 weight 1-00 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached.. 2.75 10 Cotton, light wt., unbleached 1.75 107 Merino wool, medium wt 3.00 1.86 109 Merino wool, heavy welrht.. 3.50 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 120 Imported wool, medium wt... 4.50 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached 2.00 50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached 3.00 305 Wool and silk, medium 4.50 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 70 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY PEAR BREAD OR FRUIT BREAD Pears (dry and sliced) 16 oz., raisins 5 oz, currants 5 oz., walnuts (chopped) 5 oz., sugar 4 oz., cinnamon 2 teaspoons, cloves?= teaspoon, anise 1 teaspoon, brandy or cider 4 oz. Mix well and leave stand over night in a stone or erlass jar. In the morning make sponge: 1 qt. water, li lbs. flour, 3 cakes Fleischmann's Yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar. When light (about 1* hours) mix the •■■•uit in the sponge, add about IJ lbs. flour, make a medium stiff dough, let = se until about double size, make into loaves, let rise to double size and bake. If served with cheese is delicious. This bread will keep for weeks, and improves with age. The fruit may be prepared days or even weeks ahead of baking. It will improve in flavor. THE FLE SCHMANN CO. Mr. George K. Uno One of the foremost Floral Artists — You Know — is with us to take the best care of your floral orders for all occasions. We send floral tokens anywhere in the United States on short notice. FLORAL DEPARTMENT BAILEY & SONS CO. 61-63 EAST SECOND SOUTH, SALT LAKE CITY Salt Lake's "Flower Phone," Wasatch 3904 The Relief Society Magazine Oumed and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS JUNE, 1918. A Lament Lula Greene Richards 305 Pres. William Budge of Logan Temple and Family. .Frontispiece General Conference of Relief Society. . .Amy Brown Lyman 307 Mothers in Israel 329 Experience Lucy May Green 331 Unusual Mothers 333 Home Entertainment Morag 336 Our New Board Member, Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler 339 Home Science Department 341 Current Topics James H. Anderson 343 Patriotic Department Airs. Clarissa Smith Williams 346 Conservation Pointers 351 How to Present the Genealogical Lesson 354 Editorial: Our Testimony Meetings 358 Apostle Richard R. Lyman and Family 360 Little Silver Mother, Song 361 My Guiding Star, Poem Lucy Burnham 363 Music: iLttle Silver Mother 361 ADVERTISERS* DIRECTORY. Patronize those who advertise with us. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books, and Stationery, Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City. EARDLEY BROTHERS CO., Everything for Electricity, Salt Lake City. INLAND CRYSTAL SALT CO., Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. PEMBROKE COMPANY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City. SALT LAKE ARTIFICIAL LIMB CO., 134 South West Temple. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 S. Main. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257 E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. ^IIJMIIHIIinilllMIIHIIIIIIUiniliniinUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU Osteopathic Literature Free I We have a few thousand copies of "Osteopathic Heahh," "The Journal of I I Osteopathy" and other valuable magazines, which we will distribute from our | I office during June Conference, free of charge. | I All curable diseases, either acute or chronic, are amenable to Osteopathic I i treatment, and you should not wait till conditions become chronic before in- | I vestigating ihe merits of Osteopathy. | I As a member of the "National League for the Prevention of Spinal Curva- | I ture," we will be pleased to have you co-operate with us in this work. I I DR. G. A. GAMBLE I3 No. 508, 509 and 510 Mclntyre Building I = ?niiiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiiHiiMiiiiiHiiiiinMiiHiininMiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.-. BOOKS Recommended by the SALT LADY LAKE'S FLORIST Agricultural College Extension Department Mrs. Emma J. Sanders =^ correlating with the 278 South Main Street Relief Society Work Schramm-Johnson No. 5 are sold by the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION Phone Wasatch 2815 BOOK STORE Salt Lake City, Salt Lake City, Utah Utah rr iiiiiiiiiiiruriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiit Send Your Savings to Us L. D. S. Garments Send them by mail; perfect- 1918-Spring and Summer Price LisM918 ly safe. We'll pay you 4 per This list cancels all previous quotations cent interest January 1st and lib Light wt., unbleached cotton. .$1.20 July 1st each year. 12b Light weight, bleached cotton 1.25 13b Medium wt., unbleached cotton 1.50 Don't run the risk of keep- 14b Medium weight, bleached cotton 1.50 ing money in the house; some- 15b Heavy wt., unbleached cotton. 2.00 one may take it. "Play safe" 16b Heavy weight, bleached cotton. 2.00 send us your savings — -a dollar 18b Lisle, mercerized, medium wt. . 2.65 or more at a time. 19b Medium weight, part wool.... 2JiO 20b 40% wool, medium weight.... 3.20 21b Plain spun worsted 3.75 "The Bank with a Personality" 22b All wool, heavy weight 5.25 Postage extra. Av'ge shipping wt, 20 oz. Garments marked for 20c per pair Merchant's Bank Capital, $250,000 We will make Gariiient.s ^vitli double back for 25c extra. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House Sizes: Breast, 34-44; length, 54-64. John Pingrec, President; O. P. T^arger sizes, 25c extra. Soule, V.P.; Moroni Heiner, V.P.; BILLINGS MERCANTILE ASSN. Radcliffe Q. Cannon, L. T. Hayes, Aisistant Cashiers 417 N. lOtb Went, Salt Lake City, Utah Corner Main and Third South, J Salt Lake City, Utah nniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiriiiiiiiiii iiiiiiriiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiii A LAMENT. (For a beautiful tree that washand.) ruthlessly spoiled by an unknown IN BEHALF OF MARY W. CLARK Lula Greene Richards. My beautiful, beautiful tree! God made thee so graceful and grand. How human hands could have marred this tree I never shall understand. When I left you this morning, all lovely, I called you "King of the lawn," "My Sweetheart" — this evening I find you Torn, bleeding, your loveliness gone. Could envy excite human feelings To mangle and injure like this? Though your beauty is spoiled, I still love you. Your poor, bleeding branches I kiss. Every branch, leaf and bud I held precious; My prayers have ascended on high, While your dear trunk my arms have encircled, None present but God, you and I. Our prayers. Father heard and gave comfort, And blest us on every hand, While Eve loved you and watched you still growing So stately, majestic and grand. In heaven may Father please give me One like you, my beautiful tree, And let no one hurt or deface it. But keep it and save it for me. Tonight I am heartsick and lonely; God made us, and he only knew. My beautiful tree, of our kinship, How you loved me and how T loved you.

=== GENERAL BOARD ===

THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith....Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Sarah McLelland Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mri. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist

=== BEFORE FIRST ARTICLE ===

THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. V. JUNE, 1918. No. 6 General Conference of the Relief Society. By Amy Brozvn Lyman. The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City on Wednesday and Thursday, April 3 and 4, 1918. On Wednesday three sessions were held in the Bishop's Building. At 10 o'clock 'a. m. and 2 o'clock p. m. meetings were held for stake officers and stake board members. At 7 p. m. a public meetDepartment.ing was held under the direction of the Home Economics On Thursday, April 4, two general sessions of Conference were held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. Thursday evening, April 4, a reception was held for all Relief Society delegates. The attendance at the conference was unusually large. At the opening officers' meeting there were present 320 representatives, and at the afternoon session there were 325. At the general session on Thursday morning in the Assembly Hall, there were 1360 in attendance and on the afternoon of the sam^ day, the number reached 1814. Roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following official representation: General Board members, 20; stakes represented, 63—52 by stake presidents and 11 by other reps; resentativethe other stake officers besides these were 30 counselors, 13 secretaries and 9 treasurers. Twelve stakes were not represented. Three missions were represented, two by presidents and one by a member. The missions represented were the Northern States, the Western States, and the California missions. One of the. important features of the conference was the splendid music furnished by the Relief Society choir, of 125 members, under the direction of the General Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. In addition to furnishing music for all of the regular sessions of the conference, the choir furnished special numbers at the Home Economics meeting and gave an entire program at the reception. 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. By special invitation of Prof. A. C. Lund, Director of the Tabernacle Choir, the Relief Society Choir, assisted with the oratorio, "Elijah," singing-. from the east gallery the chorus, "Lift Thine Eyes," to the accompaniment of the echo organ. The artistic rendition of the solo, "Lead, Kindly Light," by Prof. A. C. Lund, with the Relief Society Choir singing the chorus, at the Assembly Hall, and also the sextette fromi "Lucia," rendered at the Relief Society reception by the choir, were real gems and were especially appreciated. The ushers for the conference, furnished by the Pioneer stake, were on hand early and late at all the sessions, and directed the large crowds so ably that there was no delay nor the slightest confusion. On Wednesday noon, luncheon was served to the 320 stake officers who were in attendance at the officers' meeting. GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Morning Session. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the meetings of the conference and gave the opening address. She referred very feelingly to the sad condition existing in the world today on account of the great war. She felt that the present era is probably a preparation for the Millennium, and she urged that the Relief Society women be prayerful and live so that they may understand the things of God. Mrs. Wells prayed especially for the boys in the trenches, that they might be filled with hope, courage and peace. The annual financial and statistical report of the General Society was read by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. The report was particularly interesting in view of the fact that it embraces, in addition to the regular features, a report of the conservation and war work accomplished by the women of the Relief Society during the last year. Some of the interesting items were emphasized. Following is the report: Balance on hand January 1, 1917: Charity fund $14,803.03>^ General fund 49,910.57 Wheat fund 67,166.89 $131,880.49>^ Receipts: Donations: Charity fund 55.903.41 General fund 54,856.45>4 Wheat fund 13,400.71 124,160.57>^ Other receipts 72,049.93 ' Total $328,091.00

=== BACK MATTER (Ads, Trailing Content) ===

EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith....Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Sarah McLelland Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mri. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SusA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. JUNE, 1918. No. 6 OUR TESTIMONY MEETINGS. Never, since the awful martyrdom of the Sources of Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother, the Strength and Patriarch Hyrum Smith, has this people been Power. in greater need of spiritual guidance, spiritual hope and good cheer than now, today. The clouds are very thick over our heads, those clouds of war and bloodshed which encircle the earth in their pall. Fear, anxiety, and above all the hysterical excitement begotten of frenzied emotions, press upon our hearts and rob our pillows of sleep and our days of comfort. We look upon the morrow as the harbinger of sad news, and dread the hopeless hours of the lonely night, lest collapse seize upon our spent vital forces. Under such conditions we cannot neglect our spiritual opportunities without losing our one source of vital refreshment and renewal. Our meetings, especially our sacrament and testimoney meetings, are our most exhautstless sources of strength and power. The electric carriages depend upon the enSpiritual ergy stored within their batteries. These Generating batteries, because of separation from a conStations, tinuous supply of electrical fluid, must be recharged frequently from some central generating station, or they "go dead" when the battery is exhausted. Just so are we — humanly charged with the divine spiritual electrical fluid, yet separated by mortality from the central generating station operated by God's angels. We carry sufficient with us to supply the ordinary life forces, but v/hen EDITORIAL. 359 fear, disease, or death confronts us, we must get back to the Source of spiritual energy for the renewal and revitalizing of our faith and hope. God has named and ordained special houses and particular forms or symbols by which we can obtain this re-charging of spiritual life. Our houses of worship, our temples and altars, dedicated especially to this purpose, are such divine generating stations. In this life-renewal we must observe, howExtremes to ever, two distinct dangers: First, our menbe Avoided. tal substitution of worldly ideas and ideals which we sometimes feed to the seekers for strength in these spiritual generating stations in place of the pure, exalted principles of revealed truth; second, the extreme indulgence, the over-charging of our frail bodies with a spiritual fluid which may wreck our hopes and actually weaken our bodies. As an illustration of the first danger: sometimes, especially in our Relief Society meetings, the members become so enthusiastic over the studies and labors connected with home life and war activities that the testimony meetings are set aside and there is no time allowed for spiritual up-building. On the other hand, it may happen that the members find such joy and spiritual exaltation in testimony-bearing that they carry this phase of our work to an extreme, even meeting in private homes and hunting up dreams and visions, sometimes of very doubtful origin, with which to feed the mounting mental excitement. Neither of these practices is wise or desirable. Extremes are ever to be avoided. The Lord, through his servants, has ordained certain seasons for testimony meetings the: general one held by all the people on the first Sunday in each month; and for Relief Society workers, the first Tuesday in each month. On general principles, these two meetings furnish sufficient occasion for testimony-bearing by our Relief Society members. It is not proper to seek too frequent opportunities for testimony-bearing. And far more to be pitied, if not condemned, is the woman who neglects the regular and ordained occasions to build up and renew her spiritual strength while listening sympathetically and prayerfully to others' testimony and occasionally bearing her own. A Relief Society ward or stake officer who Dangers would, or who does stay away from the testifrom Neglect. mony meetings prescribed on our programs for any purpose whatsoever, is taking upon herself a fearful responsibility. The harm a leading officer may do by setting aside testimony meetings and thus allowing her organization to get a hardening of their spiritual arteries is beyond her power to even guess. Officers, see that this is not done. 360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. In our testimony meetings let us get and Rational keep the calm, sweet spirit of hope, faith and Testimony. peace. There is no excitement nor frenzy in the manifestations of the Spirit of the Lora. Tears may spring, hearts may melt, but there will be no shadow of what we call hysteria in voice or look upon the countenance of one who is moved upon by the Holy Spirit. Let no one be unwise enough to exercise the gifts — of tongues or prophecy — without the consent of him or her who presides over the meeting. Seek not after unauthorized dreams and fables to quote, for the scriptures are full of true and reliable prophecy and vision. Quote therefore from the scriptures — and study them diligently and constantly. Relate your own frequent and illuminating experiences. Cheer the downcast, bless and praise the Lord, instil faith in the hearts of the young and inexperienced, and seek, in your testimony meetings, to glorify God and to speak well of Zion. Ofifer up fervent prayers for the mouthpiece of the Lord to this generation, and center your faith on the triumph of right in this terrible conflict. Thus and only thus can Relief Society women get and keep the divine fluid which will renew their war-weary spirits and revivify their exhausted and toil-worn bodies. APOSTLE RICHARD R. LYMAN AND FAMILY. Members of our Board are particularly interested in the appointment to the Apostleship of Elder Lyman, as his wife, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, is our efficient and lovely General Secretary. She is a great tower of strength to the work of this growing organization. Elder Lyman has had the advantage of noble parentage and of wise upbringing. His abounding energy and welltrained mental faculties, together with his many natural gifts should constitute him a tower of strength to the leading quorum of the Church. He will have the. support and prayers of the people, and this Board joins in congratulations to himself and his charming companion. Little Silver Mother. To Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells on her 89th Birthday. Words by Kate Thomas. Music by Evan Stephens. f m ^ j^ A A poco rit. --i-:fi«Jt^J5-B i^: -=1— • — ii^ ^,< ^. ; 1— ^ — 1. Lit-tle sil-ver mother.don't you hear the call o' spring, -M 2. Lit-tle sil-ver mother, don't you hear the blackbird sing? It-b*—- ' 3. Lit-tle sil-ver mother, with your heart so full of spring, 'Tis p^^-f:-^—=--r^ ^^=i a tempo. mm »T ^ r -0-^ Bt tt: -u^- m Coaxing you and teasing you to come out in the sun. That's says, come out, come out, come out and play at tag with me. The God that gave the wond'rous sun that made your garden grow,Life's ^3=r-B: :a|: ^ m, ^ 362 LITTLE SILVER MOTHER. splashing down its col - or on the budding crocus bed, And wide grain fields are greening, and the la-dy slippers red; And I tempests could not draw the sweet for-get-me-nots outspread, Be- 0- — • — *- -• r -X r^ ■0- I. m =^==Mr^ ^s ^^ I ^^^m^^^^mm gilding now the glad hearts of the daisies one by one? saw a bluebird flashing in the old, bare ma - pie tree. cause his warmth gold tipp'd them, with a never fad - ing glow. poco rit. pp t- -•• ^^> .^ifc ^jTjb« J:^ MY GUIDING STAR. B\ Lucy Bitrnham. "And a little child shall lead them." Dear little arms so soft and white. That twine around my neck at night, Through you I catch a glimmer far Of heaven, dear hands, my Guiding Star. Dear little hands, with the clinging touch, Surely heaven has many such; How few would find the narrow way. But for little hands that guide each day. Dear little hands, when tempted sore. Do you understand and cling the more? You make me strong. I turn aside From weakness when you are my guide. Dear little hands that twine and cling, You keep my heart attuned to sing Praises to God for blessings given, Dear little hands, my guide to heaven. sss S I Ji 7/fessa£^e to the 2/ouny | I Toother:) of^tah and \ I the Tl/est I = As a means of safe-guarding and fostering the growth of our g ^ children, the | I Oxtension VJiViSion | 1 of the I I ^niversitj/ of 7/ta/i | s is offering a special course in s I (^^/^ Tl/elfare 7l/orA \ M This course may be taken by the mother or prospectant mother = j right in her own home and without interfering with her g M daily duties. M % The lectures, pamphlets, etc., have been prepared by some of = 2 Utah's eminent baby specialists. M § The mother, in registering for the course, registers also the age M s of her baby and all literature is sent her at frequent interJ M vals corresponding exactly with the child's development. s I THE FEE FOR THIS COURSE IS ONLY $1. | M All registrations for Child Welfare Work should be sent to the M I EXTENSION DIVISION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, | I Salt Lake City. g M A. C. Carrington, Acting Director M = 5 i NOT A GIFT Our boys at the front gladly give, and give, and give to their country, in service and sacrifice, their time, opportunities, blood and tears, their lives, if necessary. We are asked only to loan our money, and at a good interest rate. Without our loans, the free gifts of our boys will be useless. We must back them up, with clothing, munitions, ships and food. 150,000,000 pounds of sugar was our food contribution to the war in 1917. With your help we shall increase that, this year. We have met every call, subscribed to every loan. NOW, with all true Americans, we say, "OVER THE TOP" for the War Savings Stamps. Do your full share; buy these Stamps today. Any bank or post office will help you. Ill Utah-Idaho Sugar Co. illiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'-- Music Through ei Be Patriotic The New I Save wheat, sugar and | EDISON Diamond-disc I fats. Good, pure bread | I can be made of wheat i PHONOGRAPH I flour and other cereals | IT RE-CREATES I by using I MUSIC Call or write for FREE beautifully illustrated EDISON Catalogs, with prices, and full j FleisYeast chmann's | details of our easy payment plan. No obligation to you. Daynes-Beebe A/^ueic Co 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake rilllNIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIUIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 GROCERIES S.M.TAYLOR Undertakers and Embalmers & Co. FOR LESS Successors to Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West Shipping Orders a SpeFifty-three years in one location — cialty. 251-257 East First South Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Boarding House, Hotel, Efficient Service, Modem THMethods E I Complete Equipment Ranch and Family Trade especially solicited. UTAH STATE, Write for our price list. T^he Utah State NationNATIONAL. BANK al Bank features quick We help pay freight. and efficient Service. I IjTAH One feature is the Unit jSAir LAKE CITY CONSUMERS System which greatly WHOLESALE simplifies transactions. GROCERY COMPANY j^/r Joseph F. Smith, President UfflCerM: Hebcr J. Grant, Vice-President Ogden, Utah Rodney T. Badjier, Vice-Prest. Henry T. McEwan, Cashhier G«orffe H. Butler, Atit. Cashier ASK YOUR DEALER Book of Mormon Stories FOR The Cities of the Sun Z. C. M. I. Western Eli Can Port zab non er eth Seven fascinating stories Scout Shoes Handsomely Price 40 cents, postpaid illustrated The Ideal out-door DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE SHOE for Men Youths and Boys. Cheap, but serviceWhen WE make your Portraits, able. YOU get the correct style, excellence and satisfaction Ask for Z.C M.I. "Everwear" or "The Leader" The Thomas Overalls Studio They don't rip Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Machines Let Eardly Bros. Do It. ^i3=A^p^,r«rif AH Kinds We manufacfture fixtures, do construction work and carry a complete L'ne oi everything for Electricity. Send for our catalog. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH The QUALTROUGH-ALLCOTT UNDERTAKERS CO. Residence Parlors 544 SOUTH MAIN STREET PHONE WAS. 3358 SALT LAKE CITY A New Book on Gospel Doctrine M "THE WAY OF ETERNAL LIFE Written for Young People by BISHOP EDWIN F. PARRY Price, post paid 75c Send Orders to E. F. PARRY, JR. 217 Templeton Building Salt Lake City, Utah STOMACH TROUBLES A SPECIALTY Free Consultation And Examination GREENHALGH REMEDY CO., Inc. Residence Phone Hyl. 950J Office Phone Was. 5394