[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Unusual Mothers]

Unusual Mothers. M. MELISSA SUMMERHAYS. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. M. Melissa Sumnierhays, daughter of Joshua Parker and Drucilla Hartley, was born at Kanesville, Pottawattamie County, Iowa, May 21, 1852. That same year her parents crossed the plains. They settled in the Sixteenth ward, in which ward Melissa was reared. At the time of the "Move," being then five years of age, she went South with her parents and remained there until Johnston's Army passed through Salt Lake City en route to Camp Floyd, when they came back to their home in the Sixteenth ward. On June 27, 1870, she was married in the Endowment House to Joseph William Summerhays, and is the mother of sixteen children — nine girls and seven boys. Her sons have performed seven missions as follows: To England, to, the Southern States, Samoa, Switzerland. Germany and France, and she now has one son who is serving his country with the United States Expeditionary forces, in France. In 1892 she removed to the Forest Dale ward of the Granite stake in which ward she now resides. She was a member of the Relief Society in the 16th ward and has been a member of and a teacher in the Relief Society in the Forest Dale ward ever since it was organized. Her special mission in the ward in which she now lives is to visit the sick and to administer to the sisters who expect to become mothers. In talking with her about her life's labors, her desires and aspirations, she stated that above all other things she was thankful for, was the gospel, and for the comifort and consolation that is brought to her. She said that she knew that the gospel was true and that in her weak way she had been trying to keep the com- 334. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. niandments of God. in doing whoch she found unspeakable consolation. Notwithstanding Melissa is now 66 years of age, and has had sixteen children, she is a well preserved woman and her dark hair shows very few gray hairs. EVANGELINE DUNN HUNSAKER. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Evangeline Dunn Hunsaker is the mother of seventeen children. Great has been her mission here on earth and well and faithfully has she performed the same. She was born September 12. 1853. in ^Brigham City, meon L'tah. A. Dunn,Her was father. Sione of the first settlers of Brigham City, and lived in the old fort, together with President Lorenzo Snow and others.
Her mother's name was Harriet Attwood Silver, who joined the Church in Lowell, Massachusetts; and leaving all her family and friends for the gospel's sake she went to Winter Quarters, where she met and married Simeon A. Dunn. They emigrated to L^tah in 1848. Seven children were born to them — three sons and four daughters, as follows: Sarah S.. Simeon A., Emaline and Evaline (twins), Charles O., Harriet and Henry (twins). Harriet Atwood Silver Dunn died January 1. 1858, leaving her seven children with a mother's care. Evangeline was only four years old at the time of her mother's death. She with the other children were left to the care of their father and an older sister (Susannah Dunn), whose mother was also dead, and who was only fourteen years old when these little brothers and sisters were left to her care. In the midst of poverty, the hard times and privations incident to the early pioneer life in Utah, the children all young, were subjected to a life of hardship that may be imagined only by persons acquainted with such scenes. October 5. 1868. in the Endowment House. Salt Lake City, Evangeline was united for time and for eternity to Allen Collins Hunsaker. Soon after her marriage she moved with her husband to Honeyville. where they Hved for about eleven years, when they settled in Ehvood. Utah, being among the first settlers, again pioneering a new country. Her husband was a farmer and sheep man. He was Presiding Elder of the branch for over ten years and always received encouragement and help from his wife. Seventeen children were born to them, namely: Simeon A., Lewis, Eva L., Lily J\L. Emaline INI.. Harriet V., Ethel, Adeline (died in infancy), LaTitia. Margaret, Susie, Aleen, Nephi'(died at two years of age), Oscar (.died at three weeks), Lorenzo S., Amy, and Harold (died in infancy). Thirteen of the seventeen children are now grown to maturity, and all except one ( Lorenzo S.) are married and all had that ordinance performed in the Temple. Surelv the teachings, the example and the loving counsel of this parent have not been in vain! If the children of this loving mother do anything wrong, or if they do not keep the commandments given to them as members of this Church, it will not be because the mother and father failed to teach them by example and precept every principle of the gospel. Sister Hunsaker is a faithful member of the Church, being a worker in the ward Relief Society and helping in every way she can. She is the grandmother of 74 children and has four greatgrandchildren whose father (Simeon A.) died in 1902 and their mother in 1904. She has taken these children (the oldest being seven years old when their mother died), and cared for them, and they are now grown men and women. The eldest (Simeon V. Hunsaker) has enlisted in the Navy. Two of Sister Hunsaker's sons — Simeon A. and Lewis — have filled honorable missions; the first to Germany and the latter to England. For almost forty-nine years she has been a constant companion, atrue and devoted wife and a loving mother. Long may she yet remain to be a source of inspiration to her posterity.