[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Dept Patriotic Department Airs. Clarissa Smith Williams]
PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 347 We learn from a New York paper that on one day in one street alone, 200 pounds of half-loaves and pieces of bread were found in the garbage pails of that city. This street was but one of 300 squares in that great center. The same article states that there are 216,000,000 pounds of flour wasted in that city annually. Surely the food conservation movement will do somearticle The popular states that while wasteful thing' for these many fashionable women arepeople. and extravagant out doing work, their maid-servants waste more than these women could possiblv earn. Child Welfare Work. The government is emphasizing the needs of little chddren who are deprived of milk. Of 756 Baltimore children between 2 and 7 years of age. only 29 per cent are now having fresh milk to drink as against 60 per cent a year ago. And only 20, or less than cups 3 per cent of the children studied are having as much as three a day. With the babies under 2 the Children's Bureau says the situation is a little less serious. Apparently their needs are more generally understood than the needs of the child over 2. Most serious, according to the Children's Bureau, is the general substitution in the drinking child's diet of tea and coffee. Of the 575 children who are not milk, 64 per cent have definitely substituted tea and cofifee, and 24 per cent are "sharing the tea or coffee, or milk in otherdiet," fami'lv foods.which may or may not include The Children's Bureau states: "Taking a pint and a half of fresh milk as the desirable daily allowance for the average child. these 756 children were having last year on an average only 40 per cent of what they should per have had; this year their daily allowance has dwindled to 14.4 cent of this allowance. "The work of Children's Year should emphasize in every community the importance of fresh milk in the diet of young children. Without proper nourishment, children can not keep well and free from physical defects, and a campaign of education on the feeding of children is an essential part of the saving during the second year of the war." When lives of 100,000 children cannot or will not use raw milk it should be made into gravies, soups and custards. "Mothers are just beginning to realize that the better care which babies must have if 100,000 of them are to be saved during Children's Year, should commence before the baby is born. Every year three times that number of children under five die and are lost to the country before they have lived much beyond infancy. Alarge part of this vast multitude of young Americans
