[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Home | Title: Entertainments Home Entertainment Morag]

Home Entertainments. By Mo rag. Much of the joy we receive through Hfe comes from association with one another in the family circle, in the hospitable homes of our friends and in our various Church and school gatherings; Many of our homes are now feeling the loneliness of separation from loved ones enlisted in their country's service, and the uncertain waiting that only such a war as this can bring. We know it is our patriotic duty to be wise and economical of our resources, as well as of our time and money. It is equally as much our patriotic duty to bring as much joy and sunshine into the world as we possibly can. Uncle Sam is doing everything possible to provide recreations for his soldiers in every branch of the service; they have unlimited chances to play, sing and smile. I-'ortunately happiness makingneed not he costly either in expenditure of materials, t'me or labor; only a little, sometimes, in the amount of thought, love and personal sacrifice involved. We need home fun, and parties to keep up the normal balance of our lives. The month of June brings many social occasions, wedding parties and receptions, class parties, exercises for flag day. Let these be as simple and inexpensive as possible; avoid ostentation; let the costumes of our brides conform to the Church standard; use simple, home cooked meals, instead of those furnished bya costly caterer, and for decorations the fragrant flowers from the home garden. Whatever refreshments are served at your parties let them conform strictly to the "Hoover" standard and be made to take the place of one of the regular meals whenever practicable. Every bit of the happiness we can create in our homes and hearts over here will find its way across the water to those so bravely going "over the top" for us that we may live. FLAG DAY. June 14, the anniversary of the adoption of the flag, is celebrated throughout the land. The age of the American flag surprises many, for it was adopted by the Continental congress on June 14, 1777. It is, therefore, eight years older than the flag of Spain, seventeen vears older than the tricolor of France, twenty-three years HOME ENTERTAINMENTS. 337 older than the British ensign, and preceded the flags of Italy (1848), Japan (1S59), and Germany (1871). On Flag Day hold patriotic exercises in the home, school and Church. Renew your pledge of allegiance, and celebrate the day with patriotic song, sentiment, and,story. Decorate your homes with flags and bunting. Good floral combinations are red and white carnations and blue cornflowers, or crimson roses with blue and white larkspur. The Flag in Song. "Flag of the Free." "We'll Never Let the Old Flag "Star Spangled Banner." Fall." "There are Many Flags in "Old Glory." Many Lands." "Flag Without a Stain." "The Emblem of Freedom." "My Own America." "How Betsy Made the Flag." "The Red. White and Blue." The follow'ng sentiment written on flag' decol'ated cards would make appropriate souvenirs or place cards: "Listen, son! The band is playing 'The Star S])angle(l Banner.' They have let loose 'Old Glory' yonder. Stand u]), bare your head, lift your eves and thank (icd that you live under the flag." Refreshments for Flag Day party. Star-shaped san'lwiches, tomato jelly salad garnished with white potato stars, lemon ice cream with raspberry syrup and a tiny flag in each dish, and graham or oatmeal cookies. HOME EVENING. June 1 and June 27 are dates that should be remembered in every Latter-day Saint home. The former is the birthday of that great pioneer and leader, the Moses of modern Israel, Brigham Young; while the latter.date is the anniversary of the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch of the last dispensation, Joseph and Hyrum Smith. SOME "'conservation" REFRESHMENTS. Honey Nut Sandza^icJies. To half a cup of honey add all the finely chopped nuts it will hold. Spread between thin slices of brown bread I'ghtly spread with peanut butter. Peanut Dainties. Spread small wafers or graham crackers wi th peanut butter. Put a fresh marshmallow in center of each. Heat in a moderate 
 oven until marshniallovvs turn a light brown. Serve with barley coffee or grape juice. Popcorn Macaroons. Mix one cupful of finely ground popcorn with one tablespoon of softened butter. Add this to the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth with onefourth cup of sugar. Flavor with vanilla and add a little salt. Drop mixture in little molds on baking sheet. Bake in slow oven till light brown. Fruit Rice Pudding. Half fill small ramekins with cold rice pudding. ]\Iake a cavity in center of each; fill with a tablespoon of raspberry or currant jam; smooth over more rice to conceal filling; dredge with pulverized sugar and bake five minutes in hot oven. No sauce is needed. Serve hot or cold. Flag Day Nectar. Dissolve two cupfuls of sugar in same amount of cold water; add grated rind of one orange (only the yellow part to be used). Bring this to a boil. Strain this syrup; add juice of two lemons and two oranges, two quarts of raspberry or strawberry juice and one quart of cold water. Serve ice cold. Fruit Ice. Crush three ripe bananas to a pulp; add juice of two lemons and four oranges. Boil three cups of water with two of sugar and the grated rind of one lemon and one orange for a few minutes. When cold combine with fruit mixture. Turn into freezer and freeze. BUTTERMILK. Sour milk may easily be beaten into buttermilk with an eggbeater. People who live in the city and find it difficult to get honest buttermilk will find this method an excellent one. STUDENTS, ATTENTION. The many calls by our Society members for the book by Lew Wallace entitled The Fair God have exhausted the $0.65 supply in the city book stores. There are still a few of the $L50 edition. But Prescott's Conquest of Peru and Mexico gives more information, and it is not cast in the form of fiction, but is true, pure and simple. These books were suggested as supplementary to the study of the Book of Mormon. ^**\> 4««"*