A Boy's Tithing Problem
By Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards
The following problem has been submitted to us by a Latter-day Saint mother: "My son who is a Priest in the Aaronic Priesthood has been taught the principle of tithing to the best of my knowledge. I felt sure he was paying an honest tithing, but upon a closer check-up I was surprised and disappointed to learn that though the boy was paying an honest tithing on a sum which he received regularly from his father's estate, he was not paying a full tithing upon his own earnings. How may I most effectively impress upon the boy the importance of paying a full tithing upon his entire income?" Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards' suggested solution is here presented:
TRY to establish in the mind of the boy the necessity of being as honest with his Heavenly Father in the matter of handling finances as he would be with his earthly father or his employer. If either were to leave him in charge of his business with full right to operate the same according to his best judgment, with the understanding and agreement that strict accounting should be given; and if the boy should sell $100 worth of goods a day and report only sales of $50, how would he feel about it? Would his conscience be clear? Would he feel that it was fair? How long would he expect to retain his position of responsibility?
It should not be difficult to teach a boy that if it is right to pay tithing on any portion of his income, it is right to pay on all. How can we make one part appear more important than another? We are indebted to the Lord for all we enjoy, even for life itself. Without Him we could have no existence. It is because of His planning that the earth was created and that we are privileged to live upon it. But He sent us here with a definite and distinct understanding that we should account to Him for all we do. In this accounting He has asked that we give Him a tenth of our increase annually. If we fail to do this, how will we feel when we appear before Him to account for our stewardship? Will we feel that we have been honest with the Lord? Will we expect Him to say, "Well done, good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." Or will we fear that we will be regarded as an unprofitable servant, of whom He said, "Take away even that which he hath. And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth."
Possibly the characteristic most to be desired in life is that of dependability. The Lord must be pleased when He has a son whom He can trust under all circumstances. This He indicated in the case of His servant Job. He permitted the evil one to tempt him almost beyond that which any man could be expected to endure, but the Lord knew his heart and knew that He could depend upon him, and Job did not disappoint Him.
"Not mine to keep—not mine to spend, Not mine to give, not mine to lend, 'Tis the Lord's part—'tis the Lord's part, A tenth of all I gain.
"He gives me all and asks this part, To test the bigness of my heart, 'Tis the Lord's part—'tis the Lord's part, A tenth of all I gain."