[WomansExponent | Vol39 | 1910 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
			(Continued.)
	Another instance was that of a young sis-
ter who was afflicted with a white swelling
on her knee, about the size of an English
loaf. The Elders asked me to go to her and
give her a blessing, which I did, after the ad-
ministration. She was quite alarmed as she

[Column 2]
could not stand or walk. On visiting her
the next day, I found her well, walking
around. She was then a faithful Saint; af-
terwards she was married out of the Church,
relying on his promise that he would not in-
terfere with her in her religion. At once
after her marriage he forbade her to go to
the meetings or recognize the elders when
she met them. The result is she has left the
Church.
	Before leaving for London, I dreamed
one night that I was ill, I went home; but as
soon as I reached there I was well. Then I
grieved that I had not remained longer, and
resolved to return and finish my mission. So
I was busy packing my trunk, my two
daughters assisting me. As we eagerly
discussed where this thing should be placed,
and that, our hands touched as we laid them
in. Then I awoke, and found myself alone
in my little room in Sittingbourne. And
how glad I was that I was there!
	Then a letter came from Aunt Em. “Do
not get discouraged, Lydia,” she wrote;
“lady missionaries are an experiment now,
and I want you to adapt yourself to condi-
tions; do not get discouraged and come
home.”
	“O Aunt Em,” I thought, “if you could
only see some of the conditions!” Neverthe-
less I was grateful for remembrance and
encouragement. I enjoyed walking through
the fields and green lanes of England, as
we went to meeting or visited the Saints.
Often as we walked we sang, “Ye who are
called to labor,” and “Though deepening
trials throng your way, Press on, press on ye
Saints of God.” How beautiful the hymn
sounded, echoing and re-echoing, near and
far the songs of Zion always inspiring,
seemed doubly so now.
	London once more, and a most refreshing
conference. We met friends as well as
Elders from Zion whom we were rejoiced to
meet again. Some of the missionaries were
transferred to other fields, some re-appoint-
ed. I was among the later. I was glad for 
I had made friends where I stayed. It was
not that the dear woman (a Catholic) had
not been subjected to disagreeable things,
neighbor even going to her husband, telling
him of what was said about the Mormons.
But they withstood it all, and allowed me to
remain, rejoicing when I came back to them.
I had only just gotten down to work again
when disquieting letters began to arrive
from home. My eldest son was ill, his baby
also. Other letters stated things were quite
critical, and I decided to go to London, so
as to get the letters earlier, or if it should
be deemed advisable, start for home. One
of the Elders accompanied me.
	The last afternoon in Sittingbourne we
visited one of the Saints far out in the
fields, and as we returned a lark arose from
an adjacent field near to us, and, flying high
in the air, burst into a most prolonged tri-
umphant song. I stood still and listened. 
“It is a good omen,” I said. I called on all
the Saints and bade them farewell in case I
did not return. Letters came frequently.
“Don’t come yet, mother,” one said, “If
things are worse we will let you know.”
After fast Sunday meeting at Clerkenwell
some of the Saints returned with us to tea
at Penton Street. A young sister sat next to
me whom I observed did not eat anything,
and was silent. “Are you not well, sister,”
I asked. Then she told me she was going
to the hospital next day to have a growth
at the base of her great toe removed (it was


about the size of an English walnut), “but 
I fear the knife,” she said. 
	I who was also there under a great sus-
pense could appreciate her feelings. I en-
couraged her to have faith, then said, “If we
were only at home that you might receive a
blessing before undergoing the ordeal!” Or
it may be that it could be removed without
the knife.” Sister, can I not get a blessing
here?” she said. I referred her to the pre-
siding Elder, who said, “certainly, sister;”
then to me, “take her up into your little
room and give her a blessing.” At Clerken-
well, after evening meeting we parted and I 
was to visit her just as soon as she had un-
dergone the operation. 
	Next day my suspense ended in a dread
certainty as regards George’s baby, for the
letter said he had died. George himself
was critically ill. I wrote to President Ly-
man who said, “Do not go, sister, if you do
you will always regret it. It would take you
over two weeks to get home and you might
meet your son walking down the street when
you arrived, but if you feel you cannot re-
main I will give you an honorable release to
return.” During this time I had not heard
from the sister, but one day on returning to
headquarters behold she came walking to-
ward me, a happy smile on her face. “Can
you walk so soon ?” “I did not have it re-
moved,” she said, “It simply disappeared!”
And she was well. 
	The joy this incident gave me enabled me
to bear the trial I was under, so that when
a letter came saying things were well again
at home, I was almost overcome. 
	A letter came from Watford, they wanted
the President to send a missionary sister
down there. They had been troubled by an
apostate spirit, the Elders had been mobbed,
etc. “Are you afraid to go,” asked the
President. “Not if you send me,” I replied. 
So to Watford I went and the months I
spent there were now ended. My daughter
May had finished her school year and came
over to me there, which was a great com-
fort to me. We were to go to the new head-
quarters, 97 Farleigh Road, when we
reached London, and felt so thankful for
the great improvement. At home in our
own pretentious dwelling after the many
years of renting undesirable 36 Penton St.
‘“London, mamma,” May calls out, “have
you been dreaming all this time?” “Only a
day dream, May.”—LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


