Vol. 33	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1905. 	No. 9.


CONTENTS.
Biographical Sketch............R. C. Atwood. 65
Call for the Fifth Triennial Session.............66
A Birthday Celebration.........Maria Francis 67
Cedar City Items...............J. P. Mackelprang 70
Relief Society Reports—Panguitch Stake—
	Uintah Stake—Alpine Stake.......... 70
Mother’s Work:—Nebo Stake.............. 67
	Woodruff Stake—Bear Lake Stake..................71
Ensign Stake—South Sanpete Stake................72
EDITORIAL:- March Seventeen....................68
General Conference Relief Society..................68
Important Period of Time.................................68
Testimonial to Sister C. S. Williams.................68
Aunt Em's Birthday Party..................................69
Editorial Notes...................................................69
POETRY:- Woman..............Grace Ingles Frost 65
Remembrance.................................E. R. Shipp 65
	A Missionary Letter...................Ruth May Fox 67


WOMAN.

		BY GRACE INGLES FROST.

Great is thy mission, O woman,
	Value it well, and thy name;
Be all that God has ordained thee,
	And never thy calling defame!
From the side of man thou wert taken,
	Not from his feet or his head;
Walk with him shoulder to shoulder,
	Be thou not driven but lead.

Unto the man thy God gave thee,
	To be a helpmeet, a wife;
A mother of souls by him chosen,
	To taste of this mortal life.
Is then thy mission less worthy,
	Than that of thy brother–Man?
What is greater than motherhood,
	In all the eternal plan?

Great is thy mission, O woman,
	Thou it is rulest the world;
For thee man will mount to the heavens,
	Or down to perdition be hurled!
True, he is physically stronger,
	And ofttimes accounted more brave;
But strong as he is thy hand holds him,
	From the cradle unto the grave.


REMEMBRANCE.

	TO E. B. W.

No, the day was not forgotten,
	Nor my dear and honored friend
Though no word nor loving token
	Not a flower did I send,

'Twas remembered in the turmoil
	Of a very busy day,
Though my only tribute, prayer,
	Wafted heavenward away.

Ah! the flowers that bind our loving
	Do not perish in a day,
They have come by God’s bestowing—
	And as such know not decay.

Our affection budding early
	Hath become a glorious vine,
Nurtured by life’s joys and trials,
	Bearing blossoms most divine.

Faithful friendship is immortal!
	Unlike earthly flowers here;
It hath bloomed at heaven’s portal
	Ere it came mankind to cheer.

Please accept, though late the giving
	This small tribute to thy worth,
It is fraught with tender blessing
	All that’s good of heaven and earth.
	E. R. SHIPP.


[column 1]
	BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH. 
	RELIEF CRAM ATWOOD. 
	Biographical sketch of the life of Relief
Cram Atwood daughter of Josiah Cram and 
Deidamia Dutton Cram, born Jan. 17, 1820, 
Stodard, New Hampshire.
	My parents were honest praying people 
belonging to the Baptist Church and lived 
according to the best light they had received. 
They had twelve children (I was the tenth)
six sons and six daughters and they taught 
them to love and fear the Lord, and keep 
His commandments. From my earliest re-
membrance I had the fear of the Lord be-
fore me, the Bible was my favorite reader. 
When young I joined the Presbyterian 
church, but soon became dissatisfied with 
my baptism and was baptized by immersion. 
Soon after the Second Advent people came 
preaching the second coming of Chr st was
near, and when the Latter-day Saints came 
I was fully prepared to receive it. I shall 
never forget the sensation I felt the first 
sermon I heard, it thrilled through me like 
electricity. My mind was enlightened and 
I received the word joyfully. I was bap-
tized on the 10th of January, 1843. 
At my confirmation I received a testi-
mony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of 
God. I rejoiced greatly that a communica-
tion was again opened between heaven and 
earth. Every princip e that was revealed I 
believed. I saw everything so plain and was 
so thoroughly convinced of its truth, that 
I prayed the Lord to take me away should 
anything be revealed to hard for me to un-
derstand, rather than reject truth. 
When the Word of Wisdom came, I was 
already in the practice of it; had kept it for 
many years, and have ever since. When I 
found the Church was organized after the 
ancient pattern it reminded me of a dream
I had when a very little child. It made a 
lasting impression on my mind. I dreamed 
the Lord came to me and took me in His 
arms and showed me a building, He was 
about to establish. It came to my mind 
with great force, as the Church of Christ is 
compared to a building. 
I was born in Jan. 1820, and Joseph
Smith had his first vision early the next
spring. My father and mother and brother 
and four sisters soon followed me into the 
waters of baptism. 
In the fall of 1845 I left my home, friends 
and native land and came to Nauvoo with 
my eldest sister and family with four other 
families from the Peterboro Branch in New 
Hampshire; when we reached there the 
Saints were all in confusion getting ready 
to leave for the wilderness, and the people 
were passing through great trials and many 
of the Saints apostatized and our enemies 
were threatening to drive us out, and my 
sister and family with three others who 
came with me from the same Branch turn-
ed and went back from whence they came. 
My sister and family tried to persuade me 
to go back with them but could not prevail 
upon me to go. To think of going forward 
into the wilderness looked dark but to go 
back looked darker, The spirit of prophecy 
came upon me, and I told my brother-in 
[column 2]
law in the name of the Lord, if he went back 
before one year passed by he would mourn 
and lament. He went and when about half 
way back he was taken sick,—too sick to 
proceed on his journey and one year elap-
sed before he was able to reach home, and 
everytime I heard from him he was lament-
ing that he ever left Nauvoo to go home; he 
died in about two years. No principle of 
the Gospel has ever tried me in the least. 
For I knew that I had the right spirit when 
I first heard the truth and all I heard look-
ed pure and Godlike. I am thankful that 
I never raised my voice against any of the 
principles taught by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	After my sister went back East I made 
my home with her husband’s brother and 
family that remained; in the following win-
ter I received my endowments in the Nau-
voo Temple. In the spring I sold what 
things I could spare and bought three cows; 
one of them I sold and bought what seem-
ed most needful for the journey. One 
cow I had yoked in a team, and the other 
for milk, and with the family proceeded on 
my journey into the wilderness. 
In the summer of 1846, we reached Win-
ter Quarters on the Missouri river and re-
mained there until the return of the Pio-
neers from Salt Lake valley. In Winter 
Quarters I became acquainted with the fam-
ilies of Brigham and Joseph Young, I 
found employment in the family of Joseph 
Young as seamstress. While there I was 
taken very sick with pleurisy and winter 
fever. President Young’s family were near 
by and hearing I was sick he sent for me 
and I was taken in an arm chair to his 
house, and tenderly cared for until I recov-
ered and was able to resume my work. Dur-
ing the winter I made the acquaintance of 
Millen Atwood, who was in the employ of 
President Young. He was called upon to 
go with the Pioneers to the valley and 
after his return we were married by Presi-
dent Brigham Young for time and all eter-
nity, in fulfillment of a dream that I had 
some time previously. 
In the spring of 1848 we set out in the 
company of Brigham Young and family. 
After a journey of four months we arrived 
in the valley of Great Salt Lake being the 
19th day of Sept. 1848. We found it a wild 
and desolate region with scarcely a tree or 
shrub except sage brush. My husband went 
to work and with his own hands made the 
adobies and being a mason by trade laid up
two small rooms. By some means he got 
lumber to cover the roof and plastered for 
a neighbor by candlelight and got six brok- 
en lights of glass for a window. Our floor 
was fastened down with wooden pegs in-
stead of nails. We moved in on the 25th 
of Dec. By this time the snow had fallen 
to the depth of a foot or more and the 
hungry wolves came down into the valley 
for food. One night they came and took a 
chicken from the back of the wagon where 
they were sitting. We slept in our wagon 
nights and staid in the house of a friend 
days, who had been more fortunate in get-
ting his house finished sooner, until we 
could finish our own. Our flour was nearly 
all gone; my husband worked and got a


[Column 1]

li[-]tle musty corn that did not ripen which 
served to help out our flour. In the spring 
we ga[-]thered buck wheat for greens to help 
us to subsist
	In the winter of 1849-50 my husband 
went with a company to Provo against the 
Indians who were making a raid on our 
cattle, he [-]eturned after a skirmish of three 
weeks with a load of squaws and children 
which were distributed among our people 
to care for. We kept one little boy five or 
six years old, until an Indian came and 
claimed him as his brother, and we were 
counseled to let him go, and some others 
were called for also. 
In the spring we planted a garden and I 
carried water from City Creek to water it, 
while my husband was tending a five acre 
lot which he had plowed and planted. The 
ground was as dry as an ash heap to the 
depth of a foot or more. He came home 
one evening tired and hungry, and some-
what dis[-]ouraged After partaking of our 
scanty meal we knelt by our bedside to offer 
up our evening prayer. After a few words
he broke out in an unknown tongue. I was 
electrified and was given the interpretation. 
It was a reproof for our lack of faith and to 
encourage us to renewed diligence by a pro-
mise that if we would put our trust in Him 
our land should yield bountifully, and our 
table hould be loaded with the best fruits 
of the earth. It did inspire us with new 
courage, and we saw that promise verified 
to the letter. I [-]et out fruit trees and in 
due time we had the choicest fruit in abund-
ance and our garden and field brought forth
bountifully
	In 1852 my husband was sent on a mis-
sion to England. I was left with one little 
girl and myself to care for. My first little 
girl having died a few months previous from 
the effects of a burn, and I came very near 
going out with her. After my husband got 
his "fit out" he had 80 cts. left which he 
gave me. 
	I took a few little children into my house 
to teach in order to help me to live. After 
a time the grasshoppers came in great 
abundance and destroyed the crops, so that 
breadstuff was very scarce I had a little 
patch of wheat on my city lot and the 
grasshoppers came and lit down on my 
wheat. I knew that it would soon be de-
voured unless something was done. The 
thought came to me to take my school
children and let them join hands and walk 
through the wheat. They did so and the 
grasshoppers arose enmasse went up in the 
air in another direction and disappeared 
over the mountains and never returned. 
My wheat [-]rew and ripened so I had some 
twelve bushels to help myself with and my 
neighbors 
When my husband returned from his 
mission to England he brought a sister with 
him whom he afterwards married. I had 
made it a subject of prayer that if he thought 
proper to take another wife I might be
reconciled, and do the things that were 
right by her. I dreamed that he had an-
other wife and that I was perfectly willing 
to divide what I had and that was but very 
little. My husband's wife Esther Young 
died in 1858, we had always lived together 
like sisters and were very happy. 
	My younge[-]t sister came to the valley 
and married Brother Jesse Haven accept-
ing the order of plural marriage and always 
lived comfortable and happy. 
	In those days we were obliged to make 
our own clothing principally or go without. 
I took wool on shares prepared it and made 
[Column 2]
it into yarn, cleaned it and colored it, got 
it ready for the loom had it woven, and 
made it into dresses, three different pieces 
at different times, also several pieces for 
men's wear; made the yarn and knit our 
own stockings, and socks, we also made 
our own soap and candles. 
When the Sabbath School was organized 
I had a class for many years, I was present 
at the organization of the Relief Society in 
the 13th ward, Salt Lake City, became a 
member; shortly afterwards was made a 
teacher and had that position until 1874
when I was made treasurer, and acted in 
that office until the year 1860 when my 
husband died and I soon left the Ward 
where we had lived so many years. In the 
year 1873 I went back to visit my friends 
in the home of my childhood, and in other 
places in New Hampshire, Vermont, and 
Massachusetts. I found a great change in 
twenty-eight years of absence my father and 
mother were both dead, one sister and two 
brothers dead, three brothers and two sist-
ers living. They were very glad to see 
me, and treated me with the utmost kind-
ness and so did my nephews and nieces. 
They listened to all I had to say about my 
religion. Before I left home Sister Zina 
Young and the officers of the Relief Society 
laid their hands upon my head and blessed 
me. Sister Zina Young told me that I 
should be filled with the Holy Spirit and 
my words should be convinc[-]ng. and I 
would allay a great deal of prejudice; that 
was all fulfilled to the very letter. On one
occasion I had been talking on some of the 
principles we believe in and was so filled 
with the good Spirit that when I took up 
the Book of Mormon to read I could see to 
read without glasses perfectly as well as 
ever I could. I had been obliged to use 
glasses for three or four years. I was told 
repeatedly that they believed and that some 
day they should come out to Utah but they 
never have as yet. It was like beholding 
their natural face in the glass; and when I 
left to come home, the Spirit and influence 
I had came with me, and had no lasting im-
pression. I still hope it will be like casti[-]g
bread upon the waters after many days I 
shall find it; since my visit I have been 
writing and sending them letters, tracts and 
sermons and church works and they are 
there still, but I cannot give them up, I 
believe they are of the House of Israel. 
	I had a dream many years ago, that a 
white sheet was held up representing my 
father's house, saying they were a righteous 
branch of the house of Israel. I know this 
work in which we are engaged is true, I 
have seen the signs following the believer, 
I have received testimony after testimony; 
I know it as well as I know the sun rises 
and sets, and the greatest desire of my 
heart is that myself, my children and grand-
children may all keep the commandments 
of God and prove faithful to the end. 
	My husband who had been Bishop of the 
13th Ward several years died December 17, 
1890 and it was after his death we moved 
from that ward to our present home. 
	Our children were Relief Eleanor born 
January 25, 1849, and died May 11, 1852.
Abbie Angenette born September 30, 1850, 
married John Sermon; Rosalia C. born 
October 18, 1858, married Lewis A. Kelch. 
Millen M born December 6, 1863, mar-
ried Mary Bird and is now and has been 
for some years, Bishop of Sugar House 
Ward, Salt Lake county. I have quite a 
large number of grand children.
	I have done work for my dead kindred,

[Column 3]

in Logan, and Salt Lake City Temples, in a 
line of ancestry for six or seven generations, 
and enjoyed it so much that it was among 
the happiest days of my life. I am now in 
my eighty-sixth year well in health and 
comfortable in circumstances and still able 
to enjoy my meetings with the Saints. 
					R. C. ATWOOD.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


CALL FOR THE FIFTH TRIENNIAL SES-
SION OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES
	The Fifth Triennial session of the Na-
tional Council of Women of the United
States, will convene in Washington, D. C.,
April 9-15, 1905.
	The 9th will be devoted to special relig-
ous services.
	The 10th will be an Executive session,
the 11th 12th, 13th and 14th will be given
to the Triennial proper.
	The 15th will be the closing Executive
session.
	The meetings will be held in the Pythian
Hall, on Ninth Street, near New York
Ave.
	The Council Headquarters will be at the
Shoreham Hotel.
	The sessions will be divided into morning
meetings which will be strictly executive,
and at which the Council business will be
transacted.
	The afternoon session to which all mem-
bers of affiliated bodies are welcome, at
which reports from the societies and com-
mittees will be read.
	The evening session, to which the gen-
eral public is invited, and which will be ad-
dressed by eminent speakers of prominence
and ability.
	The President of each affiliated organ-
ization and Local Council is asked to send
the name and address of her Proxy, if one
is to represent her organization, to the
President and Corresponding Secretary of
the National Council
	Members of the Council elegible to sit in
Executive session are:
	First. General Officers of the National
Council.
	Second. The Heads of Cabinet depart-
ments and the Chairman of both Standing
and Special Committees.
	Third. Presidents and Delegates of Na-
tional Organizations.
	Fourth. Presidents of Local Councils.
	Programmes showing the distribution of
reports and speakers will be announced as
soon as final arrangements are made.
		MARY WOOD SWIFT,
President National Council of Women of
	the United States.
		FLO JAMISON MILLER.
Corresponding Secretary National Council
	of Women of the United States.
San Francisco Cal.


“Ohio has passed a law forbidding the
issuing of marriage licenses to habitual
drunkards or persons given to the drug
habit. Both bride and groom must appear
before the probate court and answer on oath
a list of questions bearing on relationship
extending back two generations, and on
their own moral standing. Judge A. D.
Miller of Lima proposes to enforce this law,
and refuses to issue a marriage license to
any man whose appearance indicates that
he drinks.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MISSIONARY’S LETTER.

We are sitting under a bridge today
Hungry, footsore and weary,
Thousands of miles from home and friends,
Truly the world is dreary.

Under a bridge from fhe sweltering sun,
Writing a letter to mother;
Breathing each name as I write it down,
Father, sister and brother.

We are making our way, like men of old,
Telling the self-same story;
Tramping the sod with the word of God,
Winning nor pelf nor glory.

But still we are happy, mother of mine, 
And grateful for our mission.
Whatever we lack God doth supply, 
His Spirit lends nutrition.

Ye virtuous wives of American homes, 
Rest in spotless security:
You’re not the only women who stand
For God, for home and for purity.

Where are your sons who would travel like
these.
The world’s proud scorn enduring,
To bring to its homes a message of peace,
All wickedness abjuring?

Leaving their all but a trust in God
Imbibed with the milk of their mothers;
Proving the world without money or price.
Teaching mankind to be brothers.

O God, bless our sons in the mission field,
The Saints will forget you never;
Your sun will rise when the darkness comes
And set no more forever.
					RUTH MAY FOX.


A BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
		SISTER E. B. WELLS.
	On February 25th the Utah Woman’s
Press Club and Reapers’ Club met conjoint-
ly at the home of Mrs. C. F. Wilcox to ex-
press their love and best wishes to their
much esteemed leader, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
There were present as guests, their beloved
Sisters Bathsbeba W. Smith, and Julia C.
Howe. Much regret was expressed at the
absence of Sister M. Isabella Horne, who
was unable to attend owing to feeble
health.
	A presentation was made by Sister Ruth
M. Fox, in the name of the Press and
Reapers’, of a handsome spectacle case, set
in silver engraved with Mrs. Wells’ initials
and the names of the clubs, who donated
it.
	Some very appropriate and complimen-
tary words were spoken by Sister Fox in a
poem form composed by her for the oc-
casion.
	A fine program had been prepared—Miss
Ellis Shipp recited in excellent style, “Little
Orphan Annie,” by “Riley.” and Miss Olea
Shipp sang “Let Me Love Thee,” by Ar-
ditta, and the English ballad, “The Kerry
Dance.” Master Stevenson Wilcox played
several musical selections.
	Three of Mrs. Wells’ poems from her
book, “Musings and Memories,” were
given. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, in a musical
voice, read “In the Garden of my Dreams.”
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts read, very ex-
pressively, “The Wife to her Husband,”
and Mrs. Lillian L. Maeser, in her excel-
lent style, read “The Voice of the Moun-
tains.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
her long acquaintance with Sister Wells
and the close friendship extending over
many long years. Mrs. Maria Frances
spoke of her deep love and great admiration


for her; paid a glorious tribute to her work
for women. Sister Wells responded very
briefly. The flowers were simply sweet and
lovely and everything in the way of decor-
ating was dainty and beautiful.
	The refreshments under the direction of
Sisters Wilcox and Candland were excellent
and a credit to them as caterers, several
sweet young women assisted in serving
also little Claire Wilcox and Miss Eva Jen-
son
	There were about eighty persons in all
and it was a very delightful afternoon
gathering.
					MARIA. FRANCIS.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS WORK:
		NEBO STAKE, 1905.

Lesson I.— Youth.
	“As the twig is bent the tree inclines.”
a. Honor thy father and thy mother. Exod.
10:12. b. In our youth the corner stone of
our lives is laid. c. How does prayer effect
the young? Doc Cov. sec. 68 v. 68. d.
Environments, habits, prayer, truthfulness.
Doc. Cov. sec. 93: 23 to 30. e. Respect. f.
Rights of others, g. Amusements for the
children.

Lesson II. Honesty.
	“Thou shalt not steal.” a. Be honest
with the Lord Doc Cov. sec. 119. Have an
honest heart. Luke 8:15; Cor 8:2; Rom.
12:17. How to teach children to be honest.
b. What does dishonesty lead to? To be
honest is a good foundation to build upon.
c. Should we tell a child he is dishonest? d.
Honest courage is worth more than wealth.

Lesson III.—Companionship, Fellowship, As-
sociation.
	a. Parents should find proper associates
for their children. b. Teach them the nec-
essity of keeping good company. “My son
if sinners entice thee, consent thou not.”
Prov. 1:10. “Forget not my law, but let
thine heart keep my commandments. Prov.
3:1. c. Should children be out after dark?

Lesson IV. Moral Purity.
	a. To be morally pure one must store one’s
mind with happy and pure thoughts, with
pleasant memories of the past and reason-
able hopes for the future. b. Guard
against impure language among the youth.
Avoid obscene pictures. c. Is there a lack of
confidence between parents and children? d.
Don’t let children be away hours at a time
and not know what they are doing. c.
Every child should be taught the laws of
personal purity. f. Do good manners lead to
good morals? Purity is better than ele-
gance.

Lesson V.—Home Influence.
	a. At home children learn their first and
lasting impressions. b. Our home should
be as pleasant as it can be made. Pleasures
and amusements. c. We cannot doubt, our
mothers knew it. Book of Mormon, Alma
56: 47, 48. d. Home influence, moral, so-
cial, religious. e. Teach the neeessity of
prayer and keepi[-]g the word of wisdom
and train in all the principles of the Gospel.

Lesson VI.—Obedience.
	Obedience is heaven’s first law. a. Obed-
ence produces confidence. Journal Dis.,
vol. 4, page 247. Obedience to God. to
parents and teachers. b. Take the greatest
care that our children obey while they are

[Column 2]
little. If we ask a child to do anything, let
us take time to see they do it; don’t neglect
them the first time. c. Let each child as-
sume some of the duties of the house.
Why?

Lesson VII.— Character.
	“Train up a child in the way he should
go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it.”—Solomon. a. Character is a struc-
ture we are all building. Honesty, faithful-
ness, sincerity and purity are the corner-
stones. Our minds are given us, but our
characters we make. b. Are parents re-
sponsible for the character of their children?
Youth is the springtime of character. Ref.
Exponent, Nov. 1904.

Lesson VII.—Charity.
	a. Charity for each others’ faults. Thou
shalt not bear false witness against thy
neighbor Exod. 20: 16. b. Do to others
as you would that they should do to you.
c. Love to our neighbors. Mark 28 to 30. 
d. Alms-giving. Prov. 16-17.

Lesson IX.—Rights.
	a. The rights of family members. “Honor
thy father and thy mother.” b. Provoke
not your children to wrath. Ephes. 6: 1-4.
b. As much as parents have children. Doc.
Cov., sec. 68-45, 28 v. Doc. Cov. sec. 88-4.
d: Obligations of children to parents. Juv.
Inst., vol. 4, number 2.

	Hearts will often open with ease,
	With very, very, little keys,
	Remember that two of these
	Are thank you, sir, and if you please.

Lesson X.—Family Worship.
	a. Who is the head of the family? Who
should lead in prayer? b. Should the chil-
dren take turns with their parents in prayer?
c. Is singing hymns and reading the Bible
considered part of the family worship? d.
Does daily family prayer have any influence
over children?
	Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire,
	Uttered or unexpressed,

Lesson XI.—Courtship.
	a. Its aim and effect. b. To better un-
derstand each others’ characteristics and dis-
positions. c. Teach the boys and girls that
the body is the temple of the spirit and they
must learn to keep it pure. d. How shall
they learn? Doc. Cov. 88-124-120. e. Teach
the necessity of exercise, cleanliness and
care of the body. Doc. Cov 88-124-121-123-
125. f. If fathers neglect to teach their
sons the important lessons of life the moth-
ers must. g. When shall our girls marry?
h. When is physical development complete?

Lesson XII—Marriage.
Marriage ordained of God. Doc. Cov. 49-
15 16-17. a. Necessity of marriage by the
new and everlasting covenant. Doc. Cov.
132-19. Should we obey the command?
Be fruitful and multiply. Gen. 1-27. b.
What is the object of marriage? Earthly
covenant of marriage not in force after
death. Doc. Cov. 123-15-16. d. Whom to
marry. “Be ye not unequally yoked with
unbelievers.”—Paul. e. Why should we
avoid intemperate companions?
(Signed)
		LILYUS PAGE, Pres. R. S.,
		HATTIE WRIDE, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1905


MARCH SEVENTEEN.
	The seventeenth of March is regarded now
among the Latter-day Saints as Relief So-
ciety day, being universally celebrated by
that organization. As the people of course
know this day, March seventeenth, is the an-
niversary of the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
	There were on that day, sixty-three years
ago, but eighteen members and the oldest
woman present—Elizabeth Ann Whitney—
was just forty-one years old, while Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, our present president
was only nineteen. This fact will proba-
bly be a new idea to some of our women,
who think they have to be old ladies before
it is time to join the Relief Society. The
first organization, although young women
and many of them unmarried, did a great
work among the people in Nauvoo, both
charity and temple work, and the Relief
Society increased in numbers very rapidly;
in good works of course the progress was
marked, as the name and the object of the
Society are one and the same. The women
of Zion are greatly blessed in having this
organization, for it has been, and is of un-
told benefit to them in many, many ways,
intellectually, spiritually and socially as
well as helping those who need.
	The seventeenth of March is the
social occasion for the Relief Society.
How interesting it would be, if one had
the power, on that day to look at
all the different branches and see how
widely and delightfully the day was
being spent. Not only in Zion but in
the different cities in Europe, the Sand-
wich Islands, New Zealand, Australia,
Mexico, Canada, the Eastern, Southern and
Western States, and everywhere in the
world where the Latter-day Saints have a
branch of the Church there the Relief So-
ciety is keeping this day. Perhaps it is
an old time party, or a dramatic entertain-
ment, or a banquet, or a concert it mat-
ters not, so the day is remembered and a
good time prevails.
	The Relief Society on the seventeenth,
of March, 1842, numbered eighteen, on
the seventeenth of March, 1905, it
numbers thirty-three thousand. Success
to the Relief Society and may it continue
to increase in numbers and good works, and
may each seventeenth of March be a glori-
ous day for the women of Zion.
						A. W. C.


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this city, on Wednesday,
April 5, 1905, meetings commencing at 10
a.m. and 2 p.m., as usual.
	It is hoped there will be a representation
from every stake organization, and a large
attendance of the members.
	The First Presidency of the Church,
Apostles, Patriarchs, Seventies, Bishops
and other brethren, as also all the sisters of
the various Church organizations are cordi-
ally invited to attend the conference.
	On Saturday afternoon, April 8, at 2 p.
m., an offi[-]ers' meeting will be held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall. All officers in
the several stakes of Zion and missions are
urged to be present at this meeting, as bus-
iness of great importance to the Relief So-
ciety will be presented.
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
General President.
ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
Counselors.


[Column 1]
IMPORTANT PERIOD OF TIME.
	The important times in which the people
of this age are living call for moral cour-
age and great strength of character, in ord-
er to withstand the pressure brought to
bear by the momentous events transpiring;
in fact, one cannot help feeling that the
powers of evil are increasing in force, as
truth mighty and strong makes its march
onward more powerful. 
	Surely perilous times have come, accord-
ing to the prediction of ancient Apostles,
who said, “In the last days perilous times
shall come,” and men’s hearts shall fail
them because of the dreadful calamities that
will overtake the world. 
	Not only in the prophecies uttered by the
disciples of old, but by Joseph Smith, the
modern Prophet, who when given the vis-
ion of the judgments that were to come, in
the last days, were shown to him, asked the
Lord to close the vision, for it was more
than human nature could bear. 
	Every day seemingly increases the sum
of accidents by sea and by land, and without
the wars that are raging in foreign lands,
and the loss of life and property through
all these agencies, and added to this the ter-
rible diseases that come in many instances
because of the devastation by war and
bloodshed grow more and more horrifying,
and sometimes heartrending even to read. 
What must it be to be in the midst of scenes
so revolting to the human soul. 
	Yet knowledge increases and science
ploughs its way along all the old ruts giv-
ing newer methods of dealing with every-
thing that pertains to life and health, and
yet people are not happier though every
atom is explained with the minutest ac-
curateness, either by one ’ology or another,
but wisdom said to be the twin sister of know-
ledge has not kept pace with science and phil-
osophy or the world would not be left in such
darkness as it is with its great learning. 
The Bible says, seek wisdom and under-
standing, but wisdom comes from above and
is not learned from books and to obtain it one
needs to be clothed with humility and
meekness, and then the Holy Spirit may
enlighten one’s mind to a degree surpassing
the doctrines and precepts of even college-
bred men.

[Column 2]
	When the Prophet Joseph was only a
boy and did not know even how to ap-
proach the Lord he read in the Bible, “Ask
and ye shall receive” and he accepted it
literally and those who have read his his-
tory know the result of his faith and hum-
ility.
	This is the implicit faith needed in the
present day, to be able to endure that which
is transpiring round about, and that which
is within the borders of Zion, by living near
to the Lord and keeping in his confidence,
and in such accord with the whisperings of
His Spirit that one may get wisdom from
the fount of all intelligence.
	Job says in chapter 28, beginning with
verse 12; “But where shall wisdom be
found? And where is the place of under-
standing?” The verses following this text
explain the value of wisdom placing it far
above jewels and fine gold and continues;
“Whence then cometh wisdom? And
where is the place of understanding?” The
last verse gives the subject in plain terms.
“Behold the fear of the Lord that is wisdom
and to depart from evil understanding.”
Therefore if one lives a life of purity and
keeps aloof from all that would contami-
nate, the Lord will give wisdom and under-
standing according to his need, and even
if he be poor and lowly and without great
knowledge he may be filled with the light
of truth that will keep him from the dan-
gers and besetments that surround men and
women of the present time for as know-
ledge and learning increases, more and more
the evil one takes advantage to lead away
the unwise and unwary from the path of
rectitude and uprightness. Paul says, 1.
Cor. 17., “But to preach the Gospel, not
with wisdom of words, lest the cross of
Christ should be made of none effect.” In
verse 24 after comparing the Jews and the
Greeks he says; “But unto them which are
called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the
power of God and the wisdom of God.”
	Judging from the words of the Bible and
of the Prophet Joseph in this dispensation,
one can plainly see that if men trust in
their own great knowledge and ability and
have not the fear of God and the love of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ continually before
them, there is danger, but ever and always
prayer and humility are greater safeguards
than wealth or worldly knowledge. 
	The warning given in scripture applies to
us now “Let him that thinketh he standeth,
take heed lest he fall.
	And above all in times when there is
great opposition to truth and evil influences
abound, it certainly needs something more
than knowledge such as the world affords
to be able to cope with the powers of dark-
ness that at this time assail the Saints of
God. Paul said on one occasion; “Watch
ye stand fast in the faith quit you like men
be strong.”


TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER C. S. WILLIAMS
	The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society,
on November 15, 1904, paid a fitting trib-
ute to the retiring president, Clarissa S.
Williams, after her appointment to preside
over the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake.
	The hall was profusely decorated with
chrysanthemums and the Stars and Stripes
conspicuously draped made a very pleasing
appearance. After singing, prayer was
offered by Sister Julia C. Howe, and the
new president, Fidelia Jacobs gave an


[Column 1]
address full of inspiration and love towards
the Guest of Honor; a solo was beautifully
sung by Sister Gwendolyn Lewis Little,
“If there’s sunshine in your heart today.”
Sister Abbie H. Cowly read very sweetly
the poem, “It is sweet to be remembered,”
Counselor Sophia Y. Nuttall, in a few well-
chosen words, presented Sister Williams
with a handsome and valuable book entitled
“One Thousand and One Gems of Poetry
and Songs,” and spoke feelingly of the
many gifts and graces possessed by the late
president, her modesty, honesty, loyalty
and sincerity of purpose, etc.
	Sister Williams responded by telling the
good things she really knew of her fellow-
workers in the ward, where she had presided
seven years and had been secretary three
years previously, spoke of their forbearance
when she first took up the work, and how
she had enjoyed being associated with them
in the duties of the society.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox, who had been
secretary some years while Sister Williams
presided, was glad to see the familiar faces
—it was a perfect joy to her. She referred
to Sister M. I. Horne, and her so often
quoting scripture to the sisters, how she
always enjoyed it. Sister Rachel Folland ex-
pressed her love for Sister Williams, they
had been girls together and always close
friends.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith had
thought much while listening to the sisters’
remarks, she remembered when they had a
little girl born in the house, and thought
the little girl had always been appreciated;
said how happy she was when she (Sister
Williams) was made president of the stake.
She knew all these sisters, and many more
who were not here, was pleased with the
remembrances made to Sister Williams. She
blessed all and asked the Lord to give them
His Spirit and guidance.
	Singing, “Too late! too late!”
	Expressions of love and esteem by Sister
E.B. Wells. Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde
made a very good talk on the work of
the Relief Society and her desire for pro-
gress and advancement.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker said had she been
called to labor as counselor with anyone
except Sister Williams, she would have
shrunk from the responsibility, and referred
to many pleasant visits made in the stake.
	Miss Afton Wright recited very daintily
“My Mama’s Precious Little Girl,” and
for an encore the “Forget-me-not.” Sister
Marcia Hyde spoke of the early days in the
ward, and her interest in the charity work.
She had been a teacher in the society ten
years, and was glad of the experiences.
	Sister Williams felt she wanted to be-
queathe some of her hopes and aspirations
to the present officers. She had, while
president, such an ambition to remodel the
Relief Society house; dreamed as it were of
doing something to the building. Referred
to the money taken, and told what the
Bishop’s idea was in this regard, and made
some statements of her own calculations as
to how the improvements should be made.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke
briefly about the drawing of the plans for
remodeling of the house, and how she had
looked forward to it.
	President Jacobs had felt blest with what
had been said to those who were not mem-
bers to enconrage them; thought that
while she nad been counselor in Heber City
seven years, they had helped the Bishop a
hundred dollars or more.
	Sister Georgiana Fox Young felt glad

[Column 2]
that her attention had been called in this
direction (as counselor to Sister Williams).
When a child she had gone to the Relief
Society and helped to braid straw. Re-
ferred to Sister M. Isabella Horne as an ex-
ample for all women in the great work she
had done, also some other sisters.
	Sister Alice K. Smith was glad to be in
the Seven[-]eenth Ward; before she had not
taken an active part, conditions of going to
the meet ng were not favorable. Spoke
very feelingly of the Bishops of the Nine-
teenth ward, especially Bishop James Wat-
son, who was indeed a father. Sister
Smith expressed great emotion while
speaking on account of the death of her
beloved aunt, Amanda Kimball.
	Singing, Doxology; benediction by Sister
Sarah E. Smith.

[checkmark written by hand]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AUNT EM’S BIRTHDAY PARTY!
	The party given on February 28 (as
there was no 29), 1905, the sisters of the
General Relief Society Board and mission-
aries at the residence of Sister Phebe Young
Beatie, was a perfect success in every par-
ticular, as far as elaborate decorations, gifts,
flowers and refreshments could make it.
The many intimate friends of the one
whom they met to honor were a joy to her
and to each other, and the choice senti-
ments of affection and friendship that were
given amounted to an ovation, to say the
least Beside delicate china, books and
flowers, dress patterns, gloves and handker-
chiefs, there was an elegant satchel, and a
magnificent birthday cake surmounted
with winged cupids and lettered, etc. The
cake contained a gold ring, silver thimble,
money and button (we may guess at its
meaning). There were some songs by Sis-
ter Margaret C. Hull and Maria Winder at
the opening of the exercises, and Miss Olea
Shipp accompanied on the piano, this young
lady also played “The Star-Spangled Ban-
ner” while the gifts were being presented.
Afterwards Miss Shipp sang “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior,” one of Sister Wells’
compositions.
	These good, goodly ladies assembled on
this occasion in the hospitable home of Sis-
ter Beatie all looked very glad and happy,
as well as beautfful, and the event was a
sort of triumph to the donors; for there is
more pleasure in giving than in receiving,
	There were too many present to mention
by name, but suffice to say it was a fair
company of “fair women.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith and Honorary
President M. Isabella Horne were present
and spoke a few words of love and greeting,
and it was sincerely regretted that Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards was not well enough
to attend the gathering. These three sis-
ters are veterans in the Relief Society and
in the Church; they were members of the
society in Nauvoo, although only Sister
Bathsheba Smith was present when it was
organized. Sisters Horne and Richards
joined the society afterwards. These wom-
en are historic characters. 

	The harpstrings may be shattered,
	And the rose leaves may be scattered.
		But the memory remaineth;
	And the love that we have cherished,
	And the hope that we have nourished.
		The immortal soul retaineth.


Carmen Sylva, Queen of Roumania, who
has just celebrated her 60th birthday, opened
a refuge for old people and invalids to com-
memorate the event.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Utah
S, S. D. R. was held in room 508, Temple-
ton building, Thursday, Feb. 16, 1905,
Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie in the chair. An
excellent paper by Mrs. W. H. King, con-
taining valuable information and a de-
scription of Mount Vernon, the home of
Washington. Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith
read a paper on Martha Washington
prepared by Mrs. Florence Scholes, now in
New York City. Considerable business was
transacted, and a good time enjoyed by
those present. 
	The March meeting of the D. R., Thurs-
day 16th, inst., was a good one, the Reg-
ent, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, in the chair.
Vice-Regent, Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber, was
also present, and as guest, her mother, Mrs.
Charlotte F. Richards. After the transac-
tion of miscellaneous business, and the elec-
tion of Mrs. Florence S. Sears as delegate to
the D. R. Convention to be held in South
Carolina in May, 1905, the death of Mrs. 
Israel Evans, of Lehi, one of the D. R. 
members, was mentioned, and a Resolution
of condolence and sympathy to the family
offered and a committee of two appointed to
write and express the sense of the meeting
in the great loss sustained by the Society
and family, and the community in which
she resided. The papers were Major Peter
Schuyler, by Miss Catharine Wells, and
General Montgomery, by Mrs. Mary A. H.
Cannon, both interesting topics and excel-
lently well given. The meeting was very
enjoyable. 
	We have lately looked over carefully the
book, “School and Fireside,” by Professor
Karl G. Maeser, who was for years con-
nected with the schools of Utah, and later
was General Superintendent of L. D. S. 
Church Schools. His varied experience in
the wide field of scholastic education, and
his broad views as a man of superior intel-
lectual talents and ability, entitle his works
to a high and conspicuous place in the liter-
ature of our own time, and make them of
immense value to the student, whose aim is
to excel in the best methods of instruction
for a higher education and in all that pertains
to a better and more useful life for the world
of mankind. The extreme modesty of Prof. 
Maeser placed him almost at a disadvantage
during his lifetime, but like many other
men of great mental power he may yet be-
come more highly appreciated. The book
mentioned in this brief notice is for sale,
and the writer takes great pleasure in rec-
commending it as suitable for the homes
and firesides of the Latter-day Saints, as
well as for the Church schools. It contains
an abundance of information carefully di-
vided into subjects or topics, and one must
necessarily, feel mind and thought enriched
after the perusal of such choice reading mat-
ter. The spirit of the work is congenial to
a true Latter-day Saint, and one feels re-
reshed and invigorated, as well as grown
much wiser after feasting upon its contents. 
	We have received from the Neale Pub-
lishing Company, New York City, some
books suggesting reviews or notices, and
we feel quite willing to give favorable
mention of the books received. “The Grif-
fins,” by Mary Stuart Young, of Savannah,
Georgia, recommends itself in its dedication
to a large number of patriotic American
women. It is charmingly written, and its
subject of the colonial times and treating


of “My Lord Fairfax” of Virginia, and also
of many historic characters, both men and
women, is positively delightful. The book
gives one a good insight into London soci-
ety of that period, more than a hundred
years ago, and also of the Colonial people
of America interesting. The pages are
full of characteristic instances of
loyalty and also of strategy. It is replete
with vivid pen pictures of romantic scenes
and adventures, treating of love and war.
Altogether a safe and pleasing book for
young people, and can scarcely be called
light reading. It talks of old-time Christ-
mas dinners in Virginia and the South, and
of old-fashioned after-dinner songs.
	“The Yellow Jasmine.” This is a sweet,
pretty Southern story, and though entirely
different in tone and style from the Griffins,
is far above the ordinary in language and
sentiment. It is really an attractive little
volume, and one may conscientiously rec-
ommend its perusal. It shows Southern
life in vivid realistic pen pictures. The
moral tone of this story is healthful, and
one need not be afraid of the tendency; the
language is choice, and there is nothing to
incite anything but the noblest feelings. It
ought to sell well for public or private libra-
ries. The Neale Publishing Company,
New York and Washington.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CEDAR CITY ITEMS.
Editor Exponent:
	The sixty-third anniversary of the organ-
ization of Relief Society was celebrated
here in the usual manner with meeting at
2 o’clock at which a well rendered program
was presented and appreciated by all pres-
ent. In the evening a dance for old and
young was enjoyed to its fullest extent and
a lunch was served in the course of the
evening.
	On February 4th, at the business meet-
ing, a reorganization of the Presidency of
our Relief Society was made. The retiring
President and Counselors, Sisters Thorley,
Armstrong and Jones, were desirous of be-
ing released, they having fillled the position
for eight years, and faithfully performed all
duties devolving upon them. Also the Sec-
retary, Sister Violet Urie, having been ap-
pointed to preside over the Primary Associ-
ation. Accordingly the following sisters
were chosen:—Relief Society Sister Amy
Webster Leigh as President, with Sisters
M. A. Heyborne and Maria Bullock, coun-
selors; Sister Kate Ryan, Secretary, Sister
M. A. Parry being retained as Treasurer.
The retiring Presidency have worked faith-
fully, both for the needy and for the bene-
fit of the Society.
	Financially the organization is in good
condition. The storing of grain for time of
need is one of the main features that the
Sisters feel interested in. We have up-
wards of 1000 bushels of wheat on hand at
the present time and as the people have
realized the benefit of it in the past a great-
er interest should be manifested in this un-
dertaking in time of plenty. For the past
few years there has been a scarcity in the
yield to the farmers on account of drouth
and last year on account of floods, but
when we reap a more bounteous harvest it
is hoped that we remember the time of
need and help to increase our storage.
	We have a large up-to date granary in
the course of construction, anticipating its
completion by next harvest.


The Mothers’ Work commenced some
time ago is greatly appreciated and it is
quite encouraging to note the increase in
attendance at the meetings.
	On the 22nd of February the teachers of
the Society gave a very pleasant Social to
the retiring Presidency at the home of Sis-
ter Thorley, presenting these Sisters with
tokens of esteem, purchased by donations
given by the teachers. Our teachers are a
body of energetic workers and as a rule ful-
fill their duties in a very creditable man-
ner.
	It has been a considerable length of time
since any report of our Society has been
sent for publication so that I take the pres-
ent opportunity of doing so in connection
with the report of celebration of annual an-
niversary.
			J. P. MACKELPRANG,
						Cor. Sec’y.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ference convened at Panguitch, September
15, 1904, at 10 a. m. Commenced in the
usual manner. Three wards were reported. 
Sister Priscilla Smith of Salt Lake City
gave some very good instructions to the
sisters. Brother Giles gave an instru-
mental selection. Sister Clawson of Salt
Lake City spoke very good, giving good
instructions. 
	Stake President David Cameron spoke a
short time and President Elizabeth De Long,
and Counselor Hannah A. Crosby conference
was then adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by Patriarch Joseph L. Heywood.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., com-
menced in the usual manner. Speakers in
the afternoon being Sister Margaret H. 
Clark, Sister Mary Houston, Bishop James
B. Heywood and Sister Smith. Congrega-
tion sang a song, followed by the following
speakers: Sister Clara L. Clawson, Sister
Hannah I. Henrie, Sister Priscilla Smith,
Brother James Houston and Prest. Eliza-
beth De Long. Conference was then ad-
journed. Benediction by Elder John S.
Crosby.
	ELIZABETH DE LONG, President.

		UINTAH STAKE.
	Morning session. Minutes of a Relief
Society conference of Uintah Stake of Zion-
held at Vernal September 17, 1904. Presi,
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding. 
	Opening exercises as usual. Three stake
and seven ward officers present, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp of the General Board also present
	President Sarah M. Colton was sorry
there were so few present, but it was a busy
time. Said we should call in the young
mothers in the Mother’s Work and help
them raise their families, for they are the
ones that will have to carry on this work. 
	Sister Hannah Odekirk reported Vernal
ward. Sister Mary Jane Hardie reported
Glines ward. 
	Nancy A. Colton felt glad to be able to
meet with the sisters, thought we could ar-
range our home duties so we could come to
conference; if we would come we would be
blessed of the Lord and our work would be
easy. Spoke of the Savior, thought we
should follow His example. 
	Sister Addie Longhurst reported Naples
ward. Sister Edna Cole reported Moun-
tain Dell ward.

[Column 2]
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp, one of the General
Board from Salt Lake City, felt well to meet
with the sisters and to hear the reports,
knew if we would trust in the Lord He
would bless us. Spoke of the mission that
we are placed upon the earth to fulfill, we
should be patient with our children, for the
Lord was patient with us, if we would at-
tend to our duties the Lord would bless us;
urged each and every one to be prayerful;
we were blessed above all people on earth,
and we should follow the example of
the Savior; asked the Lord to bless all. 
	Sister Trimm made a few remarks. 
Brother Edward Longhurst felt well in
meeting with the sisters; said this was the
first time he had been able to speak since
he had regained his speech. We should
live as the missionaries do in the world; re-
lated some of his experience as a mission-
ary; spoke of what a grand work the Re-
lief Society had to do; bore a faithful testi-
mony. 
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks. Conference adjourned
until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session. President Sarah M. 
Colton said we had met to continue our
conference; we should not leave work un-
done; told the sisters their duties in the
Relief Society, and to observe the Sabbath
day, we should not make excuses for not
doing our duty that is placed upon us;
bore a strong testimony. 
	The names of the general and local offi-
cers were sustained. Some instructions
from the General Board were then read. 
	Sister America Orser reported Jensen
ward. Sister Rosetta Pearce reported
Maeser ward.
	Sister Ellen Karren was pleased to meet
with the sisters, it was the first time she
had met with them since her husband’s
death. She felt lonely and had been away
from home, and while gone did not have
the privilege of going to meeting, for there
was none where she was; said one does
not know the difference until they are
placed in such circumstances; urged the
sisters to be careful about speaking lightly
of the authority placed over them; we should
store our minds with useful knowledge so
that when we go to visit the sick the
Lord will bless us and also them. 
	Sister Maud Partridge spoke of the evils
that would lead to apostacy.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp felt like endorsing
what she had heard; told of the blessings
we might receive in the Relief Society;
spoke of the time that the Prophet organ-
ized it and of the grand work that was
placed upon woman; spoke of the power
there was in prayer and of teaching the
young, virtue and purity and of what a good
name was worth, and for all to respect old
age; asked the blessings of the Lord upon
the assembly
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
remarks and spoke of Dr. Shipp’s nurse
class which she had been teaching, that it
would be a blessing to us all, and of the
sisters gathering grain and taking care
of it. 
	Appointed next conference to be held at
Maeser ward, the date to be announced
later. Singing. Benediction by Sister
Flora Collett.
			ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.

			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine stake was held at Ameri-
can Fork Jan. 20, 1905, President Rebecca


[Column 1]
Standring presiding. The stake presidency
were present, also the Relief Society stake
board and a majority of the ward presidents.
After the opening exercises, President
Standring greeted the sisters; was grateful
to see so many present, and wished all a
happy and prosperous new year. We
have passed through many trials and sor-
rows in the past year, but the Lord has
blessed us abundantly, and all He asks of
us in return is to give Him our hearts. He
will be with us and sustain us if we do our
duty. Reminded the sisters that our An-
nual day, March 17, was approaching, and
the fee is needed, for it is a great expense
to send missionaries to Mexico and Canada
and other distant places; she also spoke of
the Memorial building, and hoped the sis-
ters would contribute for that purpose this
year.
	The presidents were then called upon for
reports, and all the wards were represented
except Cedar Valley; all reported as in
fairly good condition, quite a number have
been helping to build and furnish meeting
houses, some granaries have been added
to the number, and the sisters have been
very busy waiting on the sick, helping the
poo[-], and working hard in many ways.
Meetings have been held regularly, with
good attendance and the Spirit of the Lord
prevailing.
	Connselor James H Clarke addrəssed the
meeting. Spoke of the evil of allowing
the children to be on the streets at night
who ought to be at home. Numbers of
parents seem careless as to the whereabouts
of their children at nights; these boys see
and hear many things that are detrimental
to them. Get them interested in reading
the Juvenile Instructor and other Church
publications; there is an influence about
these papers that is good for the children.
We are benefitted by good maetings and
good books, let the reading be pure and
good and it will have its effect upon your
children. Do not let them ling[-]r around
the doors of saloons or read improper liter-
ature. Keep them home at night and have
them retire early. Let us make the society
better that our children associate with.
	Singing. Benediction by Counselor An-
nie C. Hindley.
	Afternoon session.—Sisters re-assembled
at 2 o'clock. Opened by singing, prayer,
minutes, etc.
	President Standring felt doubly grateful
to see so many present. A question had
been asked whether those sisters who do
not attend meetings nor contribute to the
society should be continued on the roll.
The answer was, that their names should be
kept on the roll, unless the sisters desired
to have them removed. Spoke of the wheat
gathered by the society; the money donated
for wheat should not be used for any other
purpose, nor be kept on hand, but take the
money and buy the grain and take care of
it, for the day of famine will come, not from
the shortage of crops, but from the great
influx of people to this country. Arrange
circumstances so that the grain will be un-
der your own supervision, and ask the
blessing of the Lord upon it. Let us not
neglect our duties and the Lord will bless
us.
	President Stephen L. Chipman[-] The
best of us make mistakes, but it is a very
nice thing to work in harmony. We
should each of us understand our calling,
and not come in contact with another's
duty or privilege. The bishops feel that
the Relief Society is one of the strongest

[Column 2]
auxiliaries that they have for working
and helping to care for the poor. Sister
Standring is an old and efficient worker
in the Relief Society, and she is fully
able to counsel and direct the sisters. The
Presidency are well pleased with the la-
bors of the society, and are in accord wth
Preside nt Standring, and she is rightin
her instruction concerning the grain being
properly garnered and taken care of, and
the e should be no trouble in this direction.
President Chipman also gave s[-]me instruc-
tions in regard to the fast offerings; was in
favor of the Relief Society handling the
fast offerings as well as the Relief Society
funds.
	Sister Emma Rushton, of Idaho, sa[-]d,
Women who do not belong to the society
are behind in many respects, they are not
so capable and cannot apply these good
teachings, because they do not hear them,
an[-] cannot be so successful at home.
	Counselor Abel J. Evans.—We have a
right to receive inspiration. Let us be
loyal and true to each other, to our breth-
ren, to our country and to our religion. It
is a very serious thing to betray a trust,
for there are none who are held in contempt
like a traitor; let us not be carriers o[-] stor-
ies to the detriment of our neighbors. When
you find a Mormon that is true to his reli-
gi[-]n you may trust him. May the peace
of our Father be upon you in all your la-
bors.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley desired to
apply to her own good the teachings that
had been given. The remarks have been
timely and excellent and given in the prop-
er spirit. Spoke of the children and
thought they had too much liberty. We
know that bad company is fascinating to
our yo[-]ng people, and should do our best
to keep th[-]m in the path of virtue and
righteousness. Thought we were not as
true as we should be to each other.
	Sister Zina Chipman, missionary, said
our reward is sure if we continue or labor
of love. It is not alone taking care of the
poor and sick, but it is the principle of obe-
dience that we must learn. What has been
said today has been for our good; we must
set an example before our children, by
which they will gain inform[-]tion and in-
struction that will make them useful men
and women. If we can only be proper
teachers of our children they will receive
that spirit that will make them wise unto
salvation.
	Stake Treasurer and Cor. Sec. Emma J.
Roberts made a few remarks upon the hab-
its of children, and read the financial report
of the stake for the year ending December
31, 1904, which was unanimously accepted.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing, prayer by Counselor Harriet
Jacobs.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHER'S WORK.

WOODRUFF STAKE.

Lecture VII:—Infancy.
	a. Tell the influence a mother has upon
the Infant through the nursing period.
Dressing and care. Warn against drugs
and patent medicines. b. Necessity of
Kindergarten training in the home. Moth-
er should avoid unnecessary baby-talk, use
plain, simple language.

[Column 2]

Lecture VIII.—Childhood.
	“Train up a child in the way he should
go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it.”
	a. The key to success is love, wisdom,
faith and obedience. b. The growth of a
child physically, spiritually, and moral[--]
intellectually.

Lecture IX.—Childhood (continued).
	a. Teach the necessity of being com[-]an-
ions to our children, and joining the[-] in
their amusements, at home and other
places b. Teach that “too much indulgence
has spoilt many a child, too much love, not
one.”

Lecture X.—Home Training.
a. Teach the power of prayer, forgiveness
and charity for each others’ imperfections,
b. Honesty, faithfulness and purity.
Lecture XI.—Reverence.
	a. Reverence for the Priesthood and re-
spect for the aged. b. Study and teach the
fifth commandment.

Lecture XII.—Duties.
	a. Benefit derived from having our chil-
dren attend the juvenile organizations. b.
Reverence for houses of worship and good
behavior therein.
	Sarah Tyson, president; Alice Jackson
and Hannah Telford, counselors; Katie
Eppich, secretary; Pearl Brough, corres-
ponding secretary; Amelia Jackson, treas-
urer.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

Lec, 1st. Home, Family Organization.
	(a) The father, his authority, his position
and rights. (b) The mother, her position
and rights. (c) The children, their posi-
tion and rights.

Lec. 2nd. Prayer.
	(a) Its power and influence. (b) Belief
and faith through the same. (c) When
shall children take part in family prayer?

Lec. 3rd. Physical Development.
	(a) Methods of proper bathing. (b)
Building a healthy body. (c) Proper food
and sleep.

Lec. 4th.—Moral Development.
	(a) Reverence for Deity. (b) Reverence
for places of worship. (c) Respect for pub-
lic property.

Lec. 5th. Domestic Economy.
	(a) What is it? (b) How may it be ap-
plied in the home? (c) Distinguish economy .
from stingness.

Lec. 6th. Marriage.
	(a) Love and courtship. (b) Continuality.
(c) The ability to make a home and care
for the home. (d) Marry one of your own
faith.

Lec. 7th. Social Purity.
	(a) How shall we create a higher moral
standing? (b) The aim of parents should
be to arrange and control the environments
of the young people, cure their faults, culti-


[Column 1]
vate their talents and develop their virtues.

Lec. 8th. Sacredness of honor.
	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to get
the children’s confidence. (c) How to up-
root evil by planting good.

Lec. 6th. Dress and habits.
	(a) Dress for comfort and health. (b)
How habits are formed? (c) Man a bundle
of habits.

Lec. 10th. Obedience.
	(a) Parents should set the example by
being obedient to their Heavenly Father.
(b) Children have rights which are often
called, “disobedience.” (c) All are not
gifted in the same line. (d) Do not force
children to learn something they have no
inclination or talent for.

Lec. 11th. What does the Mother read.
	(a) Mothers lack of knowledge. (b)
Mothers reading cheap novels. (c) Mother
as teacher to her children.

Lec. 12. Books as Companion and Teacher.
	(a) Minds are made up largely of what is
put into them. (b) What books should our
children read? (c) The influence of bad
literature.
	NANCY PUGMIRE, MARIA L. BROWN, A.
C. STUCKI, committee.

			ENSIGN STAKE.
				HOME.
	“He is happiest, be he king or peasant,
who finds peace in his home.”

Lecture I.—The Newly Married Couple.
	a. Beginning life in a home by them-
selves. b. Getting acquainted with each
other. c. Relation of husband and wife.
Respect each others’ feelings. d. Finan-
ces: Simple beginning. Personal allow-
ance for wife. Home expenses and saving.

Lecture II.—Hospitality in the Home.
	“Not the furnishings, but the friends
that adorn the home.”
	a. The unexpected or chance guest. The
invited guest or guests. b. Simplicity in
entertaining. c. Prize giving. Honesty in
gaining prizes.

Lecture III.—Idealism in the Home.
	“Hitch your wagon to a star.”
	a. Have high ideals even though you are
certain you may fall short. b. Industry
and system: “Laziness grows on people; it
begins in cobwebs and ends in iron chains.
The more business a man has to do the
more he can accomplish; for he learns to
economize time.” c. Cheerfulness and con
tentment. “The most manifest sign of
wisdom is continued cheerfulness.” “A
contented mind is a continual feast.”

[Column 2]
Lecture IV.—Idealism in the Home (contin-
	ued.
	a. Atmosphere of peace and rest. “Peace,
the offspring of power.” “Peace rules the
day where reason rules the mind.” b
Spirituality: Bible lessons with children.
Memorizing passages. c. Sabbath after-
noons. Value of prayer. d. Living the
truth. Honoring contracts  Give quota-
tions.

Lecture V.—Relation of Parents and Chil-
	ren.
	a. Home a Republic and not a Mon-
archy. b. Family Councils. c. Evening
Recreations. d. Family Loyalty. c. Pre-
varication and Deception. Give quotations.

Lecture VI.—Who is the Wise Mother?
	a. The over-domestic mother. b. The
“tea” going or sewing-club mother. c.
The meeting going mother. Where are the
children while the mothers are following
their fads?

	“The instruction received at the moth-
er’s knee, and the paternal lessons, together
with the pious and sweet souvenirs of the
fireside, are never effaced entirely from the
soul.”
	Committee: Sarah S. Stewart, Margaret
C. Roberts, Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
	Margaret A. Romney, president; Annie
K. Hardy, secretary.

SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (continued).

Lecture 7.—Infancy.
	(a) Physical care and training of chil-
dren during infancy or the first three years
of life. (b) Necessity of careful feeding af-
ter the weaning period, especially through
teething. (c) Food should be nourishing,
avoiding meat and pastry. (d) Piecing to
be avoided as much as possible. (e) Plenty
of fresh air; clothing should be suitable for
season. Thick soled shoes for outdoor
wear.

Lecture 8.—Mental and Moral Training.
	(a) Children hould be taught early to
respect each other’s rights and not appro-
priate indiscriminately the rights belonging
to others. (b) Should also be taught obed-
ience by kindness and firmness. (c) A
stubborn child should be antagonized as lit-
tle as possible till it reaches the years of 
accountabiilty. (d) Be quick to praise and
slow to blame. (e) Avoid corporal pun-
ishment till all other means fail. Necessity
of self-control for the mother. (f) Patience
one of the chief virtues.

Lecture 9.—Home Life of Children.
	(a) Necessity of making home pleasant.
(b) Every mother should have time to
teach and play with her children. (c)
Teach them early to pray and ask the

[Column 3]
blessing on the food; also to be helpful and
unselfish. (d) Require them to put away
their own playthings, mistaken kindness
to give them too many toys. (e) Allow
them to have simple little parties occasion-
ally, thus training them in unselfishness,
hospitality and good manners. (f) Import-
ance of religious training and regular at-
tendance at Sunday school.

Lecture 10.—School Life.
	(a) School life of children from six to
ten. (b) Teach them to respect their teach-
ers and avoid criticism in their hearing.
(b) Train them early to do everything pos-
sible for themselves in getting ready for
school. (d) Impress upon them the neces-
sity of neatness, punctuality and obedience.
(e) If it is necessary to take lunch, see that
it consists of nourishing, healthful food,
that their minds and bodies may be strong
and active. Teach them that purity of
thought and action is essential.

Lecture 11.—Training.
	(a) Training of children during the criti-
cal period between the ages of ten and six-
teen. (b) Emphasize the moral and relig-
ious training previously given. (c) Warn
them of the dangers of evil companionship.
(d) Encourage them to confide their trials
and temptations to you. (e) See that they
have innocent amusements at proper times
and places. (f) Keep them off the street at
night, (g) Avoid late hours and late sup-
pers. (h) Mothers should be especially
patient with children of both sexes dur-
ing the period of puberty. (i) The im-
portant changes going on in their systems
causing them to be irritable and unreason-
able. (j) We should also be careful in
teaching the girls to take proper care of
their bodies and the danger of exposure to
cold. (k) Make companions of both boys
and girls, and encourage them to trust and
confide in you. (l) Wise and judicious
mothers are the hope of the nation.

Lecture 12.—Summary of Previous Lec-
	tures.
	(a) All the most important points to be
reconsidered. (b) Mothers should never
be too busy or too worried to listen to their
children’s troubles or answer their ques-
tions. (c) Should always remember the
priceless privilege of training immortal
souls.
			ALVIRA L. COX,
		President Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 33
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1905.
No. 10.


CONTENTS.
Woman's Voice................Mary A. Winters 73
Elias ...........................Annie Wells Cannon 73
The Dome Berlin .....................L. D. Alder 73
MOTHER'S Work:—Big Horn Stake............ 74
	Sevier Stake ......................................... 74
	Wasatch Stake .................................... 77
A Biographical Sketch of Sister Ellen Sem-
	moins Harrison .................................... 78
In Memoriam—Phoebe Campbell Atkinson—
	Kirsten Forgerson Anderson .................. 78
Annual Day, Archer, Idaho ........................ 78
Extracts...................... President Roosevelt 79
The Venice Assembly ................................. 80
Editorial:—General Conference—A Happy
	Birthday Party—A Pleasant Birthday...... 76
	Editorial Notes— ................................ 77
Relief Society Reports ................................ 77
POETRY:—An Easter Song......... .....A. W. C. 73
	I Am Human ...........................C. P. G. 75


AN EASTER SONG.

In Easter time the breezes blow,
In Easter time the lilies grow,
The sun gives forth a warmer glow.
In Easter time.

In Easter time the robins sing.
In Easter time the swallows bring
Into their nests a wee warm thing
In Easter time.

In Easter time young hearts beat true,
In Easter time fair lover’s woo, 
Awakening thoughts so old, yet new
In Easter time.

In Easter time the world is bright,
In Easter time earth breathes delight,
For past and gone is winter’s blight,
In Easter time.

A. W. C.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

[For THE EXPONENT.]
Dear Editor:—I desire to say a few words
through the columns of your paper to my
faithful brethren and sisters throughout the
land. Our enemies have asserted that there
is over a million dollars in tithing paid this
year. O how it makes my heart rejoice to
know that there is this amount pl[-]ced in
the hands of the Prophet of God for the
good of the Church. Our good hymn says,
“We Thank Thee, O God for a Prophet.”
Now I know that Joseph Smith was a Pro-
phet of God, and I also know that the man-
tle has rested on everyone of his successors,
and my confidence is such in the present
one, that not one dollar of that goodly
amount will ever be used unrighteously.
In the next place my soul is lifted up in
thankfulness to our Heavenly Father that
there are so many faithful ones on the earth
at the present time, that believe and obey
the law of tithing. And then what satis-
faction it gives me to think of the prosperi-
ty that this means to Zion; for has not the
Lord said, “Try me and see if I will not
open the windows of Heaven and pour
out blessings upon you.” Then rejoice
ye faithful ones in the prosperity of Zion
in every way, for who can stay the work of
the Lord? My prayer is that the erring
may repent, and that the faithful may en-
dure to the end.	
	Teach the children to pay their tithing.
		Your sister in the covenant of peace,

MARY A. WINTERS.


ELIAS:
		AN EPIC OF THE AGES.
	Such is the title of Bishop Orson F.
Whitney’s latest and most wonderful poem.
	When, about two years ago, a few friends
—fifty, perhaps, in number—were invited
to the home of Col. N. W. Clayton to
listen to the reading of a new poem by
Bishop Whitney, they little dreamed of the
great and unusual pleasure awaiting them,
this pleasure turned to wonder and deeper
admiration as they began to realize the
meaning of this invitation,—that Bishop
Whitney would himself unfold to them a
work, the fruit of many months’ labor, em-
bodying his deepest thought and inspira-
tion, displaying in its fullest his poetic
genius and spiritual nature.
	This first reading lasted several evenings,
sometimes interspersed with music appro-
priate to the theme dwelt upon, and as
the friends listened, their wonder and ad-
miration grew.
	It was the story of the world in its differ-
ent ages and phases as the Latter-day
Saints know it, told in rhythmic verse.
	The rich deep voice and impressive man-
ner of the author as he read to his friends
verse after verse of his poem, unfolding to
them the thoughts of his mind, was like
the leaves of a flower unfolding to the sun,
disclosing the heart therein.
	The readings became one of the social
events of that winter, and so much interest
in the work was awakened, that later in
the winter Bishop Whitney’s friends, by
the courtesy of President Joseph F. Smith,
arranged for a second series of readings to
take place in the beautiful parlors of the
Bee Hive House.
	The audience this time was much larger
and included many of the most prominent
men and women of the church and state.
The readings were quite dramatic in char-
acter, while the music was most appropri-
ate and beautiful.
	Following these readings was a desire by
the author’s friends to possess a copy of the
poem themselves, and steps were immedi-
ately taken to have it presented to the
public in fitting form, the result being that
a most beautiful edition de luxe, consisting
of a limited number of copies, was issued
for subscribers, while a very handsome but
cheaper edition is now ready for the public
	A review of the work in detail is scarce-
ly necessary. It is a religious epic in
twelve cantos, and is the only work of the
kind ever published by a Utah writer. The
poem throughout is graceful in style, pro-
phetic in theme, and in the thought, sub-
lime. It realizes the dream of the anthor,
for “assuredly that harp is now thine own.”
Now that tire poem in beautiful illustrated
volumes is launched on the public sea, may
it have a successful voyage and bring the
author rich returns for his work.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


Susan Coolidge, author and poet has re-
cently died in Newport, R. I., aged 70.


THE DOME BERLIN.

	On Feb. 27, 1905, in Berlin, the grand
building known as the “Dome,” was dedi-
cated, in the presence of the Kaiser, Kaizer-
ine, members of the royal household, a rep-
resentative from each country, a minister
from each Christian denomination except
one, and some invited guests. Immedi-
ately on the entrance of the Kaizer into the
building, all the church bells of Berlin,
Charlottenburg and other suburbs rang
their clanging sound, filling the air for some
minutes. About an hour afterwards, when
the dedication was over, the ringing was
resumed, this time louder as with rejoicing.
	Two social functions, given by the Em-
peror, in the White Hall of the Imperial
Palace, followed. The first on the evening
of the same day, was a dinner in honor of
the representatives and clergy. The other
was a military ball.
	On Wednesday, March 1, the Dome was
thrown open to the general public for four
days, from 11 a. m. until 2 p. m., after
which it was first decided it would be closed
indefinitely, it being said it would require
five years in which to finish it. Since then
it has been decided it shall remain open.
The base of the outside walls is of granite;
this is surmounted by a dark gray, smooth
stone, it is said a manufactured article. The
edifice presents a fine appearance, being
richly ornamented on turrets and dome, by
crosses of gold and other golden and stone
decorations.
	The papers criticize the building rather
severely, say its design is from all styles of
architecture, consequently has none, and is
of a dead color. Be that as it may, there
it stands in the Schloss Platz (castle place),
on the banks of the Spree, an imposing
monument to the Hohenzolleran dynasty.
The interior is divided into three churches
or chapels. The first one entered is to be
used for marriage, the clasped hands on the
ceiling designates this cerem ny. The up-
per walls and ceiling are beautifully painted,
the colors suitable no doubt to the purpose
for which the room was designed. The
altar unadorned, seems colorless, the gray
brown of the outer walls looking dingy on
the inside, but the final embellishments will
no doubt harmonize and express the design
of the artist.
	The center part is the main church and
will seat in the neighborhood of four hun-
dred people. The altar is unfinished, but
the three windows of stained glass above it,
situated in the circle of the dome, are ex-
quisitely colored. The center one is that
of the crucifixion, but the beautiful tints
mercifully rob it of the agony usually de-
picted on the face of the Redeemer. The
window on either side shows a delicate
blending of the richest colors, especially the
purple of the robe worn by Christ; the
gallery, facing the altar, is for the use of
the Kaizer and family, and is on a line with
the windows before described. Some royal
insignia denotes who are its occupants.
	Immediately over the door leading into
the crypt room is the organ, also on a line
with the gallery and windows and rising


another story above them, making a beauti 
ful appearance.
	Then comes the burial chapel. This is 
of spacious dimensions, a stone sarcopha-
gus in the center denotes where the casket
is to rest while the funeral rites are being
solemnized. A wide, elegant stairway leads
down to the crypts where it is said the finest
work of the building is to be seen. The
crypt is built, perhaps on the ground level,
the building being high enough above it to
admit of this. Also this may be necessary,
as the back is built on the bank of the river
Spree.
	This chapel is very large and in a most
unfinished condition. The Dome is the
outgrowth of a desire of the Hohenzollerans
for generations to erect a suitable place for
the royal dead. It is thus far realized. What
Westminster Abbey is to England the Dome
will be to Germany. It is said the Kaizer
himself is to be its first occupant. When
properly finished with inside decorations and
hangings, it will be magnificent.
	Thousands of people weie admitted each
day that it was open. At times the line ex-
tended from the entrance around and
down the whole length of one side, four
abreast. Many policemen kept order, and
divided the line, so that about forty were
admitted at once. It happened that the line
was drawn right in front of the Utah party,
who thus lead the contingent, then going
through.
	Of course compared with Westminster
Abbey, the building is modern, but this
fault will be corrected in time when perhaps
the Abbey is no more. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Berlin, March, 1905.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.

		BIG HORN STAKE.
Lecture I.—Charity.
	First—“Charity shall cover the multitude
of sins.”—I Peter 4:8.
	Second—“And though I bestow all my
goods and give my body to be burned and
have not eharity, it profiteth me nothing.—
I Cor. 13:3.
			AVILDIA DICKSON.

Lecture II.—Mother’s Love and Influence.
	The influence the mother has upon the
child before and after birth cannot be esti-
mated. A mother’s love cures the pains
and ills of childhood, soothes the pangs of
youth, comforts and inspires man through
the battles of life. A mother can keep the
confidence of her children by listening to
them while they are small, and they will
continue to confide in her when they be-
come larger and by inviting their confidence
she can direct them aright. The desire of
every true mother is to do good in the
world, and she can do this best by rearing a
family who are strong, intelligent and God-
fearing. Day by day a mother has the op-
portunity of implanting high or low ideals,
true or false ambitions in the child. A true
mother will make a happy home whether
poor or rich, peace, love, and contentment
come from within and make our environ-
ments.
	The influence of a mother upon her fami-
ly is in proportion to the love existing be-
tween herself and family. Great men at-
tribute their success to their mother’s influ-
ence. Mother’s love is the sweetest and

[Column 2]
purest of all human affections, do not be
afraid to lavish it upon your children; it
makes your memory a hallowed one, and
gives you power to influence their lives.

			Questions.
	Give examples of the world’s great men
who attribute their success to their mother’s
influence.
	How can a woman do the most good in
the world?
	Show why a loving mother can influence
her child more than anyone else.
				SARAH M. CROSBY.

Lecture III.— What to teach our Boys.
	(a) Should teach them to have faith in
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that He
will hear and answer prayers, love for our
religion and other instructions. Teach
them purity, energy, and that good habits
are worth more than riches. (b) To have
an object or purpose in life and to work with
a will to accomplish that purpose. (c)
Honor, refer to the fifth commandment. (d)
That marriage is ordained of God unto man.
	(1st) Explain the action of work on de-
veloping morals. (2nd) Explain the action
of food on muscle and brain. (3rd) Ex-
plain the action of tobacco and liquor on
muscle and brain. (4th) Explain the action
of tea, coffee, high seasoned food. (5th)
Show how diseases of one part of the body
make all the body ill by illustration.
				JESSIE TAGGART.

Lecture IV.— What to tell our Girls.
	It is one thing to possess knowledge and
quite another thing to impart it to others.
We should teach our girls to read good books
and choose good companions, warn her
against vulgar stories she may hear; ask
her to tell you everything her playmates may
tell her, then you will have a chance to cor-
rect errors and warn her against impure
teachings and harmful associates, as well as
lay a foundation for future confidence and
close companionship. They should be
taught to keep both mind and body clean
and pure. Teach them to be good home
makers in the true sense of the word, and
to be neat and tidy is always in good taste,
				JESSIE TAGGART.

Lecture V.—Peace Making.
	First—“Blessed are the peace makers for
they shall be called the children of God,”—
Matt. 5: 9.
	Second—“Live in peace and the God of
love and peace shall be with you.”—II
Cor. 2: 11.
				AVILDIA DICKSON.

Lecture VI.—Motherhood and Maternity.
	O wondrous power! how little understood
	Entrusted to the mothers’ mind alone
	To fashion genius, form the Soul for good;
	Inspire a West or train a Washington.

	(a) How can we best prepare for mother-
hood? (b) Observing the word of wisdom
as essential to physical development. (c)
The gospel as essential to spiritual develop-
ment. (d) The development of the mother
as affecting the unborn child. How can
we overcome hereditary weakness? (e) What
effect will obedience to the moral law have
npon our offspring. (Ref. St. Matthew I-24
also Heb. 12-9. Rev. 12: 7-17. (f.) How
does child bearing affect the Latter-day

[Column 3]
work? (g) How does it affect our exalta-
tion?
			SARAH M. CROSBY.

Lecture VII.— Word of Wisdom.
	a. Ref. Doctrine and Covenants Sec. 86.
	b. Observance of same.
	c. Its effects on the home.
	1st. What is the word of wisdom?
	2nd. Does it treat only on tea and coffee.
	3rd. The effect it has on the mind and
body by observing it.
	4th. Given now as a commandment. Ref.
Young Womans Journal, Feb. 1904 Junior
Department.
	5th. Promises given by observing Sam.
Ref. Sec. 89 verses 19: 20-21.
			LAURA M. RAPPLEYE.

Lecture VIII.—Obedience.
	Necessity of its Enforcements.
		From childhood to girlhood
		Maid mother and wife
		All need to be obedient
		To guide them properly through life.
	1st. Why should the lesson of Obedience
be taught in early childhood.
	2nd. How will it effect the progress of a
Latter-day Saint?
	3rd. Why is it necessary for our spiritual
progress?
	4th. How should Obedience be taught?
					ANNIE PARRY.

Lecture IX.—Reverence.
	(a) True reverence acceptable to God is a
filial fear, a reverence of divine nature pro-
ceeding from a just esteem of His perfect-
ions; producing in us an inclination to do
His will and serve Him.
	(b) We reverence superiors and age; we
honor authority; we love virtue.
	(c) We should revere our parents with a
submissive, humble spirit, respecting and
honoring them for the many sacrifices they
make for us.
	(d) A wife should reverence her hus-
band. In chiding children for faults, we
should do it with love—love should govern
the human heart.
	(e) Religion produces a reverential esteem
for all sacred things. We should revere
the law of God and be submissive to all the
requirements. Ref. Improvement Era, Juv-
enile Instructor, Young Ladies Journal and
Children’s Friend.
				SARAH M. CROSBY.

Lecture X.—Prayer.
	1st. Sincere prayer is the greatest safe-
guard against wrong doing.
	2nd. How does the habit of prayer ef-
fect the lives of boys and girls.
	3rd. How and when should we pray? Doc-
trine and Covenants, Sec. 61 verse 39
Guide Journal, August 1901.
				AVILDIA DICKSON.

	LUCY F. GRANT. President, AVILDIA
DICKSON, CHLOE B. LEE, Counselors,
SADIE PARTRIDGE, Secretary.


Lady Marjorie Erskine has entered a
children’s hospital as a child’s nurse, and
will be known as Nurse Erskine. A sister
of the Duke of Sutherland entered a large
London hospital, wishing to perform simi-
lar service, but had not health to continue.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	75


I AM HUMAN.

I was deprived in childhood—robbed of my birth-
	right fair!
I have never had what belonged to me, and they
	stole from my scanty share.
I have suffered—oh, how I have suffered! Outrage
	and loss and pain!
Are the Heavens deaf? Is God a lie, that such
	black wrongs remain?

What matter! ah, what matter! what shall it count
	to me?
These things that “I” have suffered—what is that
	I to “We”?
We—we who are human — life that is old as
	Time—
Life of the blended nations; life that is now sub-
	lime!
Life that has buried billions and poured forth bil-
	lions more—
Life that has suffered for ages, and rejoices as
	never before!
Life that carries its evils, disease and sorrow and
	sin.
By the power of eternal progress—the progress we
	all are in;
That bears with its weak and little, its errors of
	church and state,
By the strength and truth and virtue of its all un-
	counted great!
Human! am I not Human? is not the world’s life
	mine?
Shall the fate of a single creature disturb that
	calm divine?

The little "I” that suffered was but a part of
	me—
A fraction slight as a wavelet light on a world-
	encircling sea.
I may sorrow for it, as for others; there is pain
	man should not bear.
But the joy and power of Human Life makes that
	an easy care.
We may mend it and remove it—we may make all
	men glad, 
So soon as we turn our common power to help the
	separate sad.
When we lift our soul from the microscope of per-
	sonal concern
And let the light of Human Love have room to
	shine and burn.

I have rejoiced through the ages. Since life was
	made, I live,
In the wealth of power and the peace of power
	and the joy that power can give.
I have climbed the way of the ages in the steps
	that must be trod;
And I stand on the very threshold of a world that
	knows its God.

Hark! was some one crying? Does some one yet
	complain?
We cannot go on to our splendid day while any in
	want remain.
Hush! it is easy to aid you; the power and the in-
	stant will,
Wisdom and limitless love are mine, bring me
	your cup to fill!
Come! To riches and beauty, and freedom that
	none can bar—
Were you myself a thousand times—see what you
	really are!

Boston Woman's Journal.              C. P. G.


[column 1]
	MOTHERS' WORK.

	SEVIER STAKE, 1905.

Lecture I. Home.

	‘‘A home should be of one’s building
Man erects the building, woman enshrines
it.”
	Home, sweet home.
	(1) Home the kingdom of woman. (2)
How to obtain the highest type of woman-
hood. (3) Learn the will of God concern-
ing woman. (4) Love and marriage or-
dained of God unto man.—Doc. & Cov.
Sec. 49: 15. (5) The great purpose for
which marriage was ordained, was to fulfill

[column 2]
that first divine law given in the beginning
Gen. 1: 28. Heb. 13: 4. (6) Those contem-
plating marriage should possess a proper
knowledge of the laws of life, and have a
reverence for God’s laws concerning th[-]
marriage relation. Key to Theology 165-
166. (7) Kind of marriage approved. Doc.
& Cov. Sec. 132: 15-19. Key to Theology
page 162.

Lecture II. Wifehood.

	(1)Woman’s duty to husband and home.
(2) Love of God and desire to fulfill his
commandments. (3) How do women of
Latter-day Israel compare with those of
Former-day Israel in fulfilling the most im-
portant functions of woman’s life? (4)
Proper clothing during maternity sanitary
conditions. Evils of the corset. (5) Diet,
etc. (6) Condition of the mind. Proper
books to read.

Lecture III. Parents.

	(1) Responsibil[-]ty to God for their minis-
try—Ref.—Maeser’s School and Fireside.
(2) Child’s best heritage--honorable birth.
(3) Purposes bent to prepare heart and
mind for embryonic molding. (4) Cultiva-
tion ot spirituality. (5) Parental influence,
example. Child of faith. (6) Beginning
and duration of parents responsibility.

Lecture IV.

	(1) A child’s welcome as a heaven sent
gift. (2) Proper clothing. Benefits of wool-
en clothing. (3) Proper feeding and evil
effects of patent medicines and drugs. (4)
Care of children during teething.

Lecture V. Childhood.

	(r) Bright looks and gentle tones, the
childs birthright. (2) The care of the child,
a careful study. (3) Prayer taught at the
mother’s knee. An early impression of faith
in God. (4) First principles taught—obedi-
ence. truthfulness honesty, and respect for
the Priesthood and those in authority over
them. (5) Faith in ordination taught by
precept and example. (6) Childhood—its
joys and trials. (7) Good seeds bring forth
good fruits. As we sow, we shall reap. (8)
Duties of mothers in instructing sons.

Lecture VI.

	(1) Cooperation of parents necessary for
future welfare of child. (2) Special teach-
ing necessary when child leaves home to
attend Di[-]trict School. (3) Example set
by others not always worthy. (4) Care
taken to guide children in choice of compan-
ions. (5) Bad effects of continual fault-find-
ing. (6) Parents should control themselves
before controling the child. (7) Cultivate
spirituality and develop by constant care.
Ref. Fireside Talks by Dr. Maeser.

Lecture VII.

	(1) Nature has no secrets. (2) How to
av[-]id transgressing the laws of being. (3)
Know thyself. (4) What beauty depends
upon. (5) Result of ill-health. (6) The
mothers influence. (7) How to avoid base
thoughts. (8) The mother as companio[-] to
the daughter. (6) The danger that besets
girls. (10) Motherhood, woman’s sweetest
joys.

Lecture VIII.

	(1) Marrying out of one’s natural sphere.

[column 3]
(2) Cause of unhappy marriages. (3) De-
sirable traits of character in opposite sex.
(4) Domestic happiness. (5) Fashions and
frivolity of Babylon should be discouraged,
Why?

Lecture IX. Evils of Race Suicide.

Lecture X. Word of Wisdom and Prepara-
	tion of Food.

	(1) Health, wisdom and knowledge are
promised to all those who observe the
Word of Wisdom, and the destroying angel
shall pass them by. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 89.
Dan. 1: 6-21. (2)The Word of Wisdom
was given first as a principle with a prom-
ise, but, since that time it has been given as
a commandment. (3) Show the injury and
disadvantage resulting from non-observance
of this commandment. (4) Food should
be clean, wholesome and well cooked. (5)
Avoid the use of fermented liquors and
strong spices in seasoning, lest an appetite
be created in the youth for strong drinks.

Lecture XI.

	(1) Necessity of self culture for mothers.
(2) Choice of good Literature. Ref. Stand-
ard church works. (3) Proper Language.
(4) Patience. (5) Home amusements for
the family. (6) Music in the Home.

Lecture XII. The necessity of Unity in Home.

	(1) United we stand, divided we fall; in
unity there is strength.
	Devotion in the home, Ref. Doc. & Cov.
Sec. 65, 45—86, 33. Juvenile Instructor
(January, 1905 ) (2) Love begets love, and
this virtue cultivated will be a source of
unity both in families a[-]d communities.
Love thy neighbor as thyself Matt. 19: 19.
(3) How does the habit of prayer affect the
lives of boys and girls in uniting them in
their important moves. Prayer, Doc. &
Cov. Sec. 68-28. Pray always that you en-
ter not into temptation, that you may abide
the day of his coming whether in life or in
death. Ref. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 61 39.
	Committee.


R. S. ANNIVERSARY.
The Cannonville Relief Society and
members of the ward met in the Cannon-
ville hall to celebrate the annual anni-
versary of the organization of the Relief
Society, March 17th, President Alvira A.
Henderson presiding.

PROGRAM.
Singing, “An angel from on high.”
Prayer by Jacob Graf. Singing, “Come
listen to a prophet’s voice.” A welcome
was given by President A. A. Henderson.
Comic recitation, “The Barrel of Butter,”
S. Johnson, Sen. Singing by the choir.
Remarks, William J, Henderson, Sen., on
the snbject of the “Relief S[-]ciety, past,
present and future.” Song, “We are
Waiting by the River,” Sextus Johnson and
RoseSugram. Sketch of the life of Bathsheba
W. Smith, Emily B. Spencer. Song, Mrs.
Adelaide Duffin and Mrs Eunice Ingram.
Closing remarks, Nephi P. Heward. Sing-
ing by the choir, “The happy day is roll-
ing on.”
The remainder of the time was spent in
dancing until ten a. m., when picnic was
served, then dancing was resumed, until
dismissed at 12 p. m.
EMILY B. SPENCER, Sec.


76		WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1905


[column 1]
	GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Seventy fifth Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, held in the great Tabernacle, com-
mencing at 10 a m. on Thur[-]day, April 6,
1905 was certainly one of the largest, if not
the very largest that has ever been conven-
ed in the history of the Church, and was
assuredly one of the most enjoyable and will
make one of the most memorable of these,
events ever recorded in history.
	Everything connected with the Confer-
ence passed off in a manner appropriate to
such momentous occasions.
	It was indeed an imposing spectacle to
witness the stands and platform filled with
men holding the highest authority in the
holy priesthood. First Presidency, Apostles,
Patriarchs, First Council of Seventy, Presi-
dents of Stakes, Presiding Bishops: and the
Tabernacle choir seats crowded with the
sweet singers of Israel, and eminent musi-
cians to discourse sacred music inspiring
the souls of all present in that vast congre-
gation to higher, holier and purer aspira-
tions, as sacred music always does.
	When one recalls that this great body
of people in the General Conferences of the
Church have come hundreds, and even
thousands of miles in some instances, to at-
tend the meetings and listen to the teach-
ings from men inspired by the Holy Spirit,
to give both spiritual and temporal advice
and counsel to the hosts of men, women
and children assembled, it thrills one with
joy and gratitude to hear and to witness
what the Lord has done in the age in which
we live for the benefit of those who will
accept the divine message of this the last
dispensation of the fulness of times revealed
from heaven through the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Truly it is a wonderful work and how
can doubt enter into the minds of the Saints,
when they contemplate what has been done
for Zion through the instrumentality of the
men raised up from time to time to carry on
this marvelous work.
	Besides the great gatherings in the Tab-
ernacle overflow meetings were held in the
Assembly Hall adjacent, and out-door
preaching in the Temple yard for the ac-
commodation and edification of the crowds
who could not gain entrance in either house
of worship.
	The people generally will look forward
to receiving the newspapers that publish
full discourses and to the pamphlet contain-

[column 2]
ing the entire proceedings of this extraord-
inary Conference, for such it really was in
many respects. The Latter-day Saints are
very apt to say after each Conference, that
it was the very best ever held, but this
April Conference was a significant one for
many reasons, the peculiar condition of the
people at the present time, that indicates
stirring events that must be met with the
greatest wisdom this people are capable of
exercising, otherwise serious consequences
must inevitably follow. The Saints have
been warned and forewarned of the perilous
times and should be diligent in season and
out of season to every religious duty, as
well as temporal things; and hearken to the
still small voice that whispers to all who
are seeking to live right and serve the Lord
and help build up and establish truth and
righteousness in the earth and save man-
kind so far as possible from degradation
and sin.
	It is customary among the Latter-day
Saints to talk of being saviors upon Mount
Zion but we should one and all who love
our fellow-men labor to save our own, and
do all in our power to sustain those who
stand at the helm, to guide the great ship
Zion in safety for the salvation of all who
will stay on board and listen to the voice
of the Good Shepherd.
	After all the instruction given by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and other inspired
men who have spoken during this grand
and glorious Conference, surely there will
be an awakening among the people who de-
sire to stand fast for the cause in which
they have enlisted, and they will be more dili-
gent in keeping the commandments of God
and fulfilling the covenants made in the
house of the Lord in holy places and in
solemn assembles. If the Saints would do
this no good thing could be withheld for so
He has said whose word cannot be broken.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	A very pleasant party of ladies assembled
by invitation, March 7th, at the new resi-
dence of Sister Augusta W. Grant in honor
of Sister Rachel R. Grant, (the mother of
Apostle Heber J. Grant, now presiding
over the European Mission.) It would
not be possible to give the names of all the
sisters present on this happy occasion, as
there were probably eighty of them. The
parlors and hall were artistically arranged
and decorated, many beautiful flowers and
plants in bloom having been sent in as
gifts. Among others were the seven dozen
white carnations from the First Presidency
of the Church, who could not attend in
person.
	The gift was not only a token of the es-
teem and respect of these brethren for this
sister in the Church, but the white bloss-
oms were symbolical of her pure life, and
their fragrance was typical of her good
deeds, that have wafted sweetness into many
hearts and homes in Zion.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth read for
the entertainment of the company a bio-
graphical sketch of the late President Jedi-
diah M. Grant, husband of the lady whose
birthday was being celebrated; the reading
was much enjoyed and brought to mind
many incidents connected with past history
in which some of those present had partici-
pated.
	Interesting remarks were made compli-
mentary and congratulatory to Sister Grant
by Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isa-


bella Horne and Susan Grant—after which
some vocal music by the young ladies of
the household, Mrs. George J. Cannon
sang several sacred songs assisted by her sis-
ters Misses Florence,Edith, Anna, and Mary
Grant, and piano accompaniment. Sister E.
B. Wells offered her congratulations
and alluded to her intimate acquaintance
with brother Grant and family in the exo-
dus from Nauvoo, and in Winter Quarters
where they were neighbors; she also spoke
of being one of the old Tabernacle choir
selected to sing at his funeral and in the
cemetery at his burial.
	Sister Grant responded very sweetly to
the congratulations and honors conferred up-
on her, spoke briefly of her early life in the
Church and the troublous times in Nauvoo,
and how some of her relatives insisted on
her leaving the Church, but rejoiced that
she had remained faithful and that she had
received so many blessings, and although
she had not been able to hear for many
years, yet she had been very happy.
	The gathering of old friends and some
young people was happily intermingled.
Sweet young girls served dainty and appe-
tizing refreshments and altogether the char-
acter of the party was sort of sacred and
uplifting.
	Sister Grant is certainly beautiful in her-
self, her features remain placid and serene
and her intellect bright, she is well pre-
served in every respect and her friends join
in wishing her many happy returns of the
day in the enjoyment of peace love and
the good fellowship of the Saints.


A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY.

	On Monday March 27, 1905, a few of
the relatives and friends of Mrs. Martha G. 
Wells assembled by invitation at her home 
in this city. The parlors were very prettily
decorated and the guests all seemed deligh-
ted to honor one so universally admired and
so highly esteemed as "dear Aunt Martha"
as she is affectionately called by the "dear
five hundred friends."
	Quite a number of tokens of love and 
affection were presented to her by the
guests and others who were not present.
The party was not formal in any sense,
there were no speeches but many hearty 
congratulations, and sincere good wishes
were expressed for the honored lady, and
social conversation was freely indulged in 
by the goodly company.
	The five o'clock tea was handsomely
served on small tables and at each plate a 
card, with name of guest and flower; jon-
quil,yellow being the color of flower, ribbon
etc. The menu was of the choicest variety
and served in the daintiest style, with cut
glass, silver, and the finest china, but the 
most delightful part of all was the social
feeling that seemed to permeate the gather-
ing. A blessing was asked upon the food
when all was ready by Sister Elizabeth J. 
Stevenson. During the afternoon Miss
Mary Wells sang very sweetly one or two
favorite songs accompanied on the piano by
Miss Alice Wells, her cousin, little Geneva
Wells also sang very sweetly; all grand-
daughters of the hostess.
	The success of the party was in a great
measure due to the ingenious tact of the
young women, who so carefully arranged
every detail that could add to the enjoy-
ment of the hostess and her friends, Mrs.
Edna Wells Sloan and Mrs. Briant H.
Wells.


It was a day to be remembered by those
present particularly because of the renew-
ing of old-time acquaintances, who meet so
seldom socially nowadays on the great high-
way of life. The writer extends sincerest
congratulations to Mrs. Wells and may her
days be lengthened out.and all her ways be
smooth and peaceful as the years roll on-
ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	The minutes of the General Conference
of the Relief Society will be published in
the May number of the paper.

	Some othe other matter deaths, etc., that
are left over will be used next issue.

	Those who send articles for publication
in the paper will please put the name of the
writer, it is quite impossible to guess at
the right signature and each one writing an
article for publication should sign her own
name or nom de plume if she so desires.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

WAYNE STAKE.

	Wayne Stake Relief Society Conference
was held Jan. 14, 1905, at Thurber R. S.
Hall, Pres. Jane S. Coleman presiding;
after the usual opening exercises Pres. Cole-
man wished all present a happy and pros-
perous New Year; thought the minutes
just read were of an elevating nature, re-
ported Stake labors, that there was perfect
union in the Stake Board. Counselor M.
E. Hanks could not be present, her babe
being sick. Counselor Sarah Forsyth
had been honorably released and was now
in Canada, which left a vacancy in the
Stake officers, spoke very highly of her
good words and deeds, that she would al-
ways be held in loving remembrance by her
sisters in the Wayne Stake; Sister Bathshe-
ba Grundy was chosen to act as Second
Counselor, received a clear vote. The
duties of the officers and members were
spoken upon and that the Relief Society
was especially for looking after the poor
and sick and those who need warming up
in the faith of the Gospel.
	Loa Relief Society, reported by Coun-
selor Elizabeth Jeffrey; Lyman, Counselor
Orilla Chappel; Thurber, Pres. Sarah E.
Meeks; Teasdale, Counselor Angeline Cole-
man; Torey, Pres. Mary E. Perry; all were
in good condition, they all had gathered up
a good donation of wheat for storing; all
made good remarks upon Relief Society
work.
	Counselor Bathsheba Grundy felt that
the Spirit of the Lord was in our midst,
was desirous to do that which would be re-
quired of her as a Stake officer.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison was truly grate-
ful to enjoy this conference, said much good
can be accomplished by the Relief Society
teachers, to cheer the down cast, visit the
sick and by being active members it made
us better wives and mothers.
	Elder Joseph Eckersley felt the Relief
Society was a tower of strength, said Pres.
Coleman was faithful and untiring in her
efforts, that Counselor Mary E. Hanks’
heart was in the work, that Counselor
Sarah S. Forsyth’s presence would be
missed, spoke highly of her faithful labor

[Column 2]
in the Wayne Stake, thought Sister Grundy
had proven her interest in Woman’s work,
in other associations, and she could be de-
pended upon; paid tribute to the lovely,
genial character of the late Sister Lucinda
Brown who had recently passed from this
life, advised teaching purity of life to our
sons and daughters, try to seek for the
Spirit of the Lord and have discernment to
choose the good and refuse the evil, and
understand the spirit of the time; be true
to your covenants, honor your callings, and
the blessing of the Lord be upon you.
	Benediction by Elder Gastian S. Bastian.
	Afternoon session. Pres. Jane S. Cole-
man read the yearly financial statement.
Spoke about what had been accomplished
in silk culture, the sample of cocoons sent
to the division of entomology at Washing-
ton D. C. were pronounced very good by
the chief of the bureau and graded firs
class, said it was very pleasing to know our
trees were of a good quality, felt we were
favored by having the Stake Presidency
at our conference.
	Elder G. S. Bastian spoke on looking
after the poor, that none should suffer, also
that parents should study the natures of
their children, to teach them purity and
reverence, mothers prepare their children
for Sabbath school, their influence was the
greater in the home, they were always pres-
ent with the children, would have liked to
see more of the brethren present, many of
the sisters had come from a distance which
showed interest in the work, prayed the
blessing of the Lord upon the Relief Society.
	Sister L. C. Ostberg, missionary, enjoyed
the excellent spirit of the conference, spoke
to mothers upon the responsibility resting
upon them to teach honesty, truth, and
other virtues.
	Sisters Kingstrup, Eliza Brinkerhoff,
Flora Russel, Bathsheba Grundy, all made
remarks encouraging to young mothers,
urging them to live up to the teachings of
the Gospel, and bore their testimonies to
the truth of the work of the Lord, and all
had kind words to say of Counselor Sarah
S. Forsyth who had left the Wayne Stake.
	Bishop George Stringam had enjoyed
listening to the remarks of the brethren and
sisters, did not know how we could get
along without the Relief Sociely sisters,
said the Relief Society is a good help in the
Church.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Viola
Brinkerhoff. Conference adjourned for six
months.

MARY C. WILLIAMS


IN MEMORIAM.

Whereas: Our Dear Sister Sophia T.
Nuttall has been called upon to mourn the
loss of her companion, Elder L John Nut-
tall;
Be it resolved; that we the members of the 17th
Ward Relief Society extend our love and sym-
pathy to herself and family praying that our
Heavenly Father will pour out His Holy Spirit in
abundance upon them to bless and comfort their
wounded hearts; may the husband’s and father’s
influence remain with them throughout their lives
to replace in part his presence.
Resolved that we as a Society do mourn his loss
on account of his devotion to Relief Society work
being ever willing to assist us with his worthy
counsel and noble advice:
Resolved that a copy of this be placed on the
records of tho Society and also published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

FIDELIA JACOBS, Pres.


MOTHERS WORK:

WASATCH STAKE.

Lesson XIII.—Charity.

Bear ye one another's burdens
And so fulfill the law of Christ.
	a. Teach children to sacrifice some of
their pleasure for the happiness of others.
b. Pure religion and undefiled before God
and the Father is this: “To visit the father-
less and the widow in their affliction, and to
keep himself unspotted from the world.”
Ref. Oct. Era, 1903. Nov. Y. L. Journal,
1904.

Lesson XIV.—Economy.
	a. Money, its use and abuse. b. Self-
denial. c. Avoid debt, danger of borrow-
ing. “Neither a borrower or a lender be,
for loan oft loses both itself and friend and
borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.”
d. Economy of time.

Lesson XV.—Selfishness.
	a. Parental and family selfishness. b.
Christ's example is pure unselfishness. Ref.
Nov. Y. L. Journal, 1904.

Lesson XVI.—Self-Control.
	a. Temptation. b. Temperance. c
Courage. Self-control is the virtue which
regulates behavior by reason. Ref. Jan.
Era, 1904. Y. L. Journal, May, 1900.

Lesson XVII.—Cheerfulness.
	a. Cheerfulness and its effects, fault-find-
ing and its effects. b. Our duty is to be
happy and to make others happy. Ref. Y.
L. Journal, Aug. 1900.

Lesson XVIII.—Reverence for Sacred
	Things.
	a. Reverence for Deity. b. Reverence
for the house of worship. c. Reverence
for sacrament vessels. Irreverence comes
mostly from thoughtlessness and not from
desire. Ref. May Era, 1903. Journal, Oct.
1900.
	Presidency and Committee: Anna R.
Duke, Elizabeth Murdock, Lovisa Alexan-
der. Sarah K. Duke, Sec.


A great meeting was held in London on
March 14 by the National Union, a federa-
tion of twenty-seven Woman Suffrage As-
sociations. Queen’s Hall was packed, and
there was much enthusiasm. About eighty
members of Parliament were present. Mr.
Leonard Courtney presided, and there were
addresses by Sir Wilfrid Lawson, Sir Chas.
M’Laren and six other members of Parlia-
ment, and by the Countess of Aberdeen and
Mrs. Millicent Garrett Fawcett. John Mor-
ley sent a letter, in which he said: “It is
absurd to pretend either that women are
incapable of political interest and capacity
or that voting must be injurious to their
womanhood.’’ Our American “Antis” al-
ways try to make out that municipal suf-
frage in England is limited to a few rich
women. At this meeting Mr. Bamford
Slack, M. P., quoted some interesting Lan-
cashire figures. In Bolton, he said, there
were 5234 women voters on the municipal
register, of whom 4752 were working wo-
men. In a typical ward in Nelson the pro-
portion of working women was 95 per cent.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF SISTER
ELLEN SEMMIONS HARRISON.
	Ellen S. Harrison was the daughter of
George and Charity Walles, and was born
the 5th day of March, 1859, at Keymore,
near Brighton, Sussex, England. Sister
Harrison was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
year 1869, by her father, who was at that
time President of the Sussex branch of the
Church. 
	Sister Harrison's mother died when Ellen
was between the ages of 13 and 14 years.
In the year 1875, she in connection with
her sister, Charity, emigrated to America
and settled in Salt Lake City, Utah, where
she went to live with Sister Joshua K.
Midgley, and there remained until the 8th
day of July, 1880, when she married Edwin
D.Harrison. In 1881 she in connection
with her husband left Salt Lake City, and
took up their residence in the city of Logan,
Cache County, Utah, where she immedi-
ately identified herself with the Relief So-
ciety of the Third Ward, of said city.
Shortly after going to Logan her husband
was called to fill a mission to Great Britain,
thus leaving Sister Harrison to provide and
care for herself and seven children, which
she nobly did for over two years.
	In June, 1898, she and her husband with
their children moved to the Pocatello ward,
where she at once began an active work in
Relief Society. On the 6th day of July, 
1899, she was called and set apart to be
Second Counselor to Sister Regina Pond,
President of the Pocatello Ward Relief So-
ciety, which position she held until May,
1900. On the last named date Brother L.
John Nuttall re-organized the society and
Sister Harrison was set apart to be its
President, which position she nobly filled
until September 22nd, 1903, when she was
honorably released to become the Second
Counselor to the Stake President of the 
same organization, which position she was
honorably filling at the time of her death,
which occurred on the 27th day of January,
of this year (1905).
	Sister Harrison is the mother of nine
children, eight of whom are now living.
Three sons and five daughters. These
children, in connection with an affectionate
husband, are left to mourn her demise.
She was a loving wife, a devoted mother
and was beloved by all who knew her, and
has gone to receive her glorious reward.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT—
To the memory of the late Sister Ellen S.
Harrison, unanimously adopted by the Re-
lief Society Stake officers at their regular
meeting March 8th, 1905:
	We, the officers of the Stake Board of
the Relief Society, realizing the great loss
sustained by the Ward and Stake Relief So-
ciety in the death of our beloved Sister,
Ellen S. Harrison, who departed this life on
the 27th day of January, 1905, desire to
express our deep sense of the worth and
excellent qualities of our departed sister;
therefore be it
	Resolved, That in Stake Counselor Ellen
S. Harrison, we recognize a capable and
good worker, one who has left behind her
a grand and noble example of her faith in
God and the principles of the Gospel, and
we are left to emulate her example, to
treasure up the words of faith, hope, chari-
ty, and love that fell from her lips and was
practised in her life.

[Column 2]	
That in her death we are deprived of a
valuable Counselor whose presence will be
sadly missed in our councils;
	That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family, and pray the Lord to sustain
and comfort them in their great sorrow,
that they may look up to the Father in
Heaven she loved so well and take courage
in following in her footsteps;
	That while we lament the death of a
loved co-laborer, we bow in submission to
the fiat of Him who doeth all things well;
	That these resolutions be placed upon the
minutes of the board, and that copies be
furnished the family.

SECRETARY.


IN MEMORIAM. 
PHEBE CAMPBELL ATKINSON. 
Sketch and resolutions of respect to the mem-
ory of Sister Phebe Campbell Atkinson, who de-
parted this life at Bountiful October 21, 190 4
Sister Atkinson was in her 96th year, and her 
living descendants number 450 souls. She had 15
children, 77 grand-children. 329 great-grandchil-
dren, and 39 great-great-grandchildren. Sister 
Atkinson was born at New Brunswick, Canada, 
October 9, 1809. Her marriage to Bro. Atkinson 
occurred in 1834. She emigrated to Utah in 1853, 
settling in Bountiful, Has been a faithful mem-
ber of the Church from that time till her death. 
Sister Atkinson was a member and officer of the 
Relief Society from the time it was organized in 
Bountiful, and at the time the ward was divided 
in 1877, Sister Atkinson was appointed president 
of the South Bountiful Relief Society January 26, 
1879. In that capacity she worked faithfully, al-
ways striving to do her duty, and at the end of 15
years resigned on account of ill health, having 
gained the love and respect of all who were as-
sociated with her. She was a woman of great 
faith and integrity to the Gospel; her testimony 
was always bright. She was not ashamed to de-
fend the principles of her religion, and was true 
to every principle of the Gospel, including that of 
celestial marriage. She died as she had lived, 
firm in the faith, and with a sure hope of a glori-
ous resurrection. 
RESOLUTIONS.
Therefore be it resolved, that we, the officers of 
the Relief Society, do sincerely sympathize with 
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one who 
was in every respect worthy of our love and es-
teem. 
Resolved, that in her death we recognize the loss 
of a true Saint and a faithful worker; but she 
has fought the good fight and kept the faith, and 
there is a crown of righteousness awaiting her in
the kingdom of God. 
Resolved, that these resolutions be placed upon 
the records of the South Bountiful Relief Society 
and that they be published in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and a copy be given to the bereaved
family.

MARY A. PAGE, President. 
SARAH P. MOSS, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM.

	In memory of Sister Kirsten Forgerson Anderson
who departed this life, March 18th, 1905, at her
home in Koosharem. Sevier Co., Utah.
	She was born in Norway, May 5th, 1828. She
became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in the early 60’s, and emi-
grated in 1877, arriving in Ephraim Sanpete Co ,
Utah, July 24th of the same year.
	The following August she removed to Koos-
harem, then in Piute Co , with her husband, An-
drew Anderson, two sons and two daughters, as
follows. Mrs, Josephine Nielson, of Richfield,
Sevier Co., Utah, Mrs. Malvina Johnson, of
Deweyville, Box Elder Co., Utah, Theodore An-
derson, Koosharem, Sevier Co., Utah, and Parley
Anderson, who is Bishop of the same place.
	On the 1st of August 1878, a Relief Society of
the Koosharem ward was organized with Margaret
Anderson as president, Eliza Rust 1st counselor,
Sabra J. Hatch. 2nd counselor. Sister Kirsten was
sustained as teacher, an office which she faithrully
filled for two years, when our ward was divided,
taking Sister Rust from us.
Sister Kirsten was then sustained as first coun-


selor, which position she held up to the time of her
death.
From August 1880 till March 1905, this chain has 
never been broken, till God in His infinite wisdom 
saw fit to take one of its brightest links home, 
where she will continue her labors of usefulness 
and love. 
For nearly a quarter of a century she has served 
us faithfully and well. She was a kind and de-
voted wife and mother, devoted to her family, her 
friends and her God. And as much as we regret 
the separation, we rejoice in the thought of the 
glorious reception she will meet in the mansions 
of our Father. And we know that the closing of 
her life here, is the beginning of another which 
shall be far more glorious and eternal. 
RESOLUTIONS. 
Whereas our esteemed sister has been called to 
her heavenly home. we, her sisters, who know of 
her faithful life, desire to acknowledge her labors 
and ministrations of kindness love and assistance 
as a counselor of our Relief Society, and also as a 
friend and neighbor in the best sense of the term. 
Therefore be it 
Resolved, that we do testify that humility, char-
ity and faith were leading traits of her in character,
and that her devotion to her family, her friends 
and her God is an example which we should all 
strive to emulate. 
Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in 
our Relief Society record and also published in the
Woman’s Exponent.
Margaret Anderson, Pres. Koosharem Ward; 
Sabra J. Hatch, Counselor; Sarah Crawford, 
Secretary.


ANNUAL DAY, ARCHER, IDAHO.

The Relief Society held its annual day in
the ward house, March 17, 1905. The ex-
ercises commenced at 10 o’clock, Presi-
dent Sarah S. Briggs presiding. The ward
choir rendered singing. A sketch of the
Relief Society was given by counselor Sus-
annah Burns. Readings, comical and sent-
imental, singings, violin solos, organ selec-
tions, recitations, stump speeches and ad-
dresses. followed by remarks from the Bish-
op and Counselors, were greatly enjoyed by
those present. Dinner had been prepared
by the sisters, of which all seemed to par-
take freely. The afternoon was spent in
social conversation and the day closed with
a friendly dance. The health of the people
is good and fair weather prevails.


Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman has had a
busy time in England, where her friends
had arranged to have her give eighteen lec-
tures and addresses in thirteen days. From
England she went to the Continent for a
series ot twelve lecture engagements, begin-
ning at Amsterdam, and going on to Vi-
enna, Buda-Pesth, etc. Mrs. Gilman ex-
pected to sail for America about March 25.

Lady Warwick, the first of England’s no-
bility to avow her belief in socialism, is
about starting on an automobile tour
through England preaching the doctrine.
Among other things she will argue for non-
sectarian education in the schools and
against the policy of Balfour and the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury.

Pundita Ramabai has secured eighty-four
acres about thirty miles from Bengalore,
with a large number of mango-bearing
trees, wells, houses, and the use of a tank.
The Widow’s Home now in Bengalore
will soon be removed there, but part of the
Home at Bengalore will be maintained as
a feeder to the new home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS. 
From President Roosevelt's Address to the Congress 
of Mothers. 
“No piled-up wealth, no splendor of ma- 
terial growth, no brilliance of artistic de-
velopment, will permanently avail any peo-
ple unless its home life is healthy, unless 
the average man possesses honesty, cour-
age, common sense and decency, unless he 
works hard and is willing at need to fight 
hard; and unless the average woman is a 
good wife, a good mother, able and willing 
to perform the first and greatest duty of 
womanhood, able and willing to bear, and 
bring up as they should be brought up, 
healthy children, sound in body, mind and 
character, and numerous enough so that the 
race shall increase and not decrease. 
There are certain old truths which will 
be true as long as this world endures, and 
which no amount of progress can alter. 
One of these is the truth that the primary 
duty of the husband is to be the home-
maker, the bread-winner for his wife and 
children, and that the primary duty of the 
woman is to be the helpmeet, the house-
wife and mother. The woman should have 
ample educational advantages; but, save in 
exceptional cases, the man must be, and 
she need not be, and generally ought not 
to be, trained for a lifelong career as the 
family bread-winner; and, therefore, after a 
certain point, the training of the two must 
normally be different, because the duties of 
the two are normally different. This does 
not mean inequality of functions, but it 
does mean that normally there must be 
dissimilarity of function. On the whole, I 
respect the woman who does her duty even 
more than I respect the man who does his. 
No ordinary work done by a man is either 
as hard or as responsible as the work of a 
woman who is bringing up a family of 
small children; for upon her time and 
strength demands are made not only every 
hour of the day, but often every hour of 
the night. She may have to get up night 
after night to take care of a sick child, and 
yet must by day continue to do all her house-
hold duties as well; and if the family means 
are scant she must usually enjoy even her 
rare holiday taking her whole brood of chil-
dren with her. The birth-pangs make all
men the debtors of all women. Above all, 
our sympathy and regard are due to the 
struggling wives among those whom Abra-
ham Lincoln called the plain peo-
ple, and whom he so loved and trusted; for 
the lives of these women are often led on 
the lonely heights of quiet, self-sacrificing 
heroism. 
Just as the happiest and most honorable 
and most useful task that can be set any 
man is to earn enough for the support of 
his wife and family, for the bringing up 
and starting in life of his children, so the 
most important, the most honorable and de-
sirable task which can be set any woman is 
to be a good and wise mother in a home 
marked by self-respect and mutual forbear-
ance, by willingness to perform duty, and 
by refusal to sink into self-indulgence or 
avoid that which entails effort and self-sac-
rifice. Of course, there are exceptional 
men and exceptional women who can do, 
and ought to do, much more than this, who 
can lead and ought to lead great careers of 
outside usefulness in addition to- not as 
substitutes for- their home work; but I 
am not speaking of exceptions; I am speak-
ing of the primary duties, I am speaking of 

[Column 2]
the average citizens, the average men and 
women who make up the nation." 
Inasmuch as I am speaking to an assem-
blage of mothers, I shall have nothing 
whatever to say in praise of an easy life. 
Yours is the work which is never ended. 
No mother hns an easy time, and most 
mothers have very hard times. and yet 
what true mother would barter her experi-
ence of joy and sorrow in exchange for a 
life of cold selfishness which insists upon 
perpetual amusement and the avoidance of 
care, and which often finds its fit dwelling 
place in some flat designed to furnish with 
the least possible expenditure of effort the 
maximum of comfort and of luxury but 
in which there is literally no place for chil-
dren. 
The woman who is a good wife, a good 
mother, is entitled to our respect as is no 
one else. but she is entitled to it only be-
cause, and so long as, she is worthy of it. 
Effort and self-sacrifice are the law of 
worthy life for the man as for the woman; 
though neither the effort nor the self-sacri-
fice may be the same for the one as for the 
other. I do not in the least believe in the 
patient Griselda type of woman—of the
woman who submits to gross and long-
continued ill-treatment, any more than I 
believe in a man who tamely submits to 
wrongful aggression. No wrongdoing is  
so abhorrent as wrongdoing by a man to-
wards the wife and the children that should 
arouse every tender feeling in his nature. 
Selfishness towards them, lack of tender-
ness towards them, laek of consideration 
for them, above all, brutality in any form 
toward them, should arouse the heartiest 
scorn and indignation in every upright
soul.
I believe in the woman’s keeping her 
self-respect just as I believe in the man’s
doing so. I believe in her rights just as 
much as I believe in the man’s, and indeed 
a little more; and I regard marriage as a 
partnership, in which each partner is in 
honor bound to think of the rights of the 
other as well as of his or her own. But I 
think that the duties are even more im-
portant than the rights, and in the long 
run I think that the reward is ampler and 
greater for duty well done than for the in-
sistence upon individual rights, necessary 
though this, too, must often be. Your duty 
is hard, your responsibility great; but 
greatest of all is your reward. I do not 
pity you in the least. On the contrary, I 
feel respect and admiration for you. 
Into the woman’s keeping is committed 
the destiny of the generations to come after 
us. In bringing up your children, you 
mothers must remember that while it is es-
sential to be loving and tender, it is no 
less essential to be wise and firm. Fool-
ishness and affection must not be treated 
as interchangeable terms; and besides 
training your sons and daughters in the 
softer and the milder virtues, you must seek 
to give them those stern and hardy qualities 
which in after life they will surely need-
Some children will go wrong in spite of 
the best training, and some will go right 
even when their surroundings are most un-
fortunate; nevertheless, an immense am-
ount depends upon the family training. If 
you mothers, through weakness, bring up 
your sons to be selfish and to think only of
themselves,you will be responsible for much 
sadness among the women who are to be 
their wives in the future. If you let your 
daughters grow up idle, perhaps under the 
mistaken impression that, as you yourself 

[Column 3]
have had to work hard, they shall know 
only enjoyment, you are preparing them 
to be useless to others and burdens to them-
selves. 
Teach boys and girls alike that they are 
not to look forward to lives spent in avoid-
ing difficulties, but to lives spent in over-
coming difficulties. Teach them that work 
for themselves, and also for others, is not a 
curse, but a blessing; seek to make them 
happy, to make them enjoy life, but seek 
also to face life with the steadfast resolution 
to wrest success from labor and adversity, 
and to do their whole duty before God and 
to man. Surely she who can thus train
her sons and her daughters is most fortu-
nate among women. 
There are many good people who are 
denied the supreme blessing of children, 
and for these we have the respect and sym-
pathy always due to those who, from no 
fault of their own, are denied any of the 
other great blessings of life; but the man 
or woman who deliberately foregoes these 
blessings, whether from viciousness, cold-
ness, shallow-heartedness, self-indulgence, 
or mere failure, to appreciate aright the dif-
ference between the all-important and the
unimportant—why, such a creature merits 
contempt as hearty as any visited upon 
the soldier who runs away in battle,or up-
on the man who refuses to work for the 
support of those dependent upon him,
and who, though able-bodied, is yet content 
to eat in idleness the bread which others 
provide. 
The existence of women of this type 
forms one of the most unpleasant and un-
wholesome features of modern life. If any 
one is so dim of vision as to fail to see 
what a thoroughly unlovely creature such 
a woman is, I wish they would read Judge 
Robert Grant’s novel,“Unleavened Bread,”
ponder seriously the character of Selma, and
think of the fate that would surely over-
come any nation which developed its aver-
age and typical woman along such lines. 
Unfortunately, it would be untrue to say 
that this type exists only in American nov-
els. That it also exists in American life is 
made unpleasantly evident by the statistics 
as to the dwindling families in some localit-
ies. 
It is made evident in equally sinister fash-
ion by the census statistics as to divorce, 
which are fairly appalling, for easy divorce 
is now, as it ever has been, a bane to any 
nation, a curse to society, a menace to the 
home, an incitement to married unhappi-
ness and to immorality, an evil thing for
men,and a still more hideous evil for wom-
en. These unpleasant tendencies in our 
American life are made evident by articles 
such as those which I actually read not
long ago, in a certain paper, where a clergy-
man was quoted, seemingly with approval,
as expressing the general American atti-
tude when he said that the ambition of any 
save a very rich man, should be to rear two 
children only, so as to give his children an 
opportunity “to taste a few of the good 
things of life.”
This man, whose profession and calling 
should have made him a moral teacher, ac-
tually set before others the ideal, not of 
training children to do their duty, not of 
sending them forth with stout hearts and 
ready minds to win triumphs for themselves 
and their country, not of allowing them the 
opportunity and giving them the privilege 
of making their own place in the world, 
but, forsooth of keeping the number of chil-
dren so limited that they might “taste a


few good things!’’ The way to give a child
a fair chance in life is not to bring it up in
luxury, but to see that it has the kind of
training that will give it strength of char-
acter. Even apart from the vital question
of national life, and regarding only the in-
dividual interest of the children themselves,
happiness in the true sense is a hundred
fold more apt to come to any given mem-
ber of a healthy family of healthy-minded
children well brought up, well educated,
but taught that they must shift for them-
selves, but win their own way, and by their
own exertions make their own positions of
usefulness, than it is apt to come to those
whose parents themselves have acted on
and have trained their children to act on
the selfish and sordid theory that the whole
end of life is “to taste a few good things.”
The inelligence of the remark is on a par
with its morality, for the most rudimentary
mental process would have shown the
speaker that if the average family in which
there are children contained but two chil-
dren, the nation as a whole would decrease
in population so rapidly that in two or three
generations it would very deservedly be on
the point of extinction, so that the people
who had acted on this base and selfish doc-
trine would be giving place to others, with
braver and more robust ideals. Nor would
such a result be in any way regrettable; for
a race that practiced such doctrine—that is,
a race that practised race suicide—would
thereby conclusively show that it was unfit
to exist, and that it had better give place
to people who had not forgotten the prim-
ary laws of their being.
To sum up, then, the whole matter is
simple enough. If either a race or an in-
dividual prefers the pleasure of mere effort-
less ease, of self-indulgence, to the infinitely
deeper, the infinitely higher pleasures that
come to those who know the toil and the
weariness, but also the joy, of hard duty
well done, why that race or that individual
must inevitably in the end pay the penalty
of leading a life both vapid and ignoble.
No man and no woman really worthy of the
name can care for a life spent solely or
chiefly in the avoidance or risk of trouble
and labor.  Save in exceptional cases the
prize worth having in life must be paid for,
and the life worth living must be a life of
work for a worthy end, and ordinarily of
work more for others than one’s self.
The man is but a poor creature whose
effort is not rather for the betterment of his
wife and children than for himself, and as
for the mother, her very name stands for
loving unselfishness and self-abnegation,
and, in any society fit to exist, is fraught
with associations which render it holy.
The woman’s task is not easy—no task
worth doing is easy—but in doing it, and
when she has done it, there shall come to
her the highest and holiest joy known to
mankind; and having done it, she shall
have the reward prophesied in Scripture,
for her husband and her children, yes and
all people who realize that her work lies at
the foundation of all national happiness and
greatness,shall rise up and call her blessed.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STO	solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
much as possible for your money.
TRY US

Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also childrenwho are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.

WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street,


[Column 1]
	THE VENICE ASSEMBLY.

	There are many ideal summer resorts in
this country at the present time, but for
novelty and genuine attractiveness nothing
has ever been built which will surpass Ven-
ice, which is now being completed on the
Southern California coast just south of
Santa Monica. Nature has done much for
this delightful spot, but during the past
year the finest architect and landscape
gardener and the best engineer have been
busy, and the result is a modern Venice
with miles upon miles of salt water canals,
stately Venetian palaces, business blocks
and places of amusement; and while it will
not be completed until the first of June, the
work is so far advanced that a fair idea of
the rare attractiveness of the place is ob-
tained by any who go to visit.
	Venice is easily accessible, being but
thirty minutes’ ride from Los Angeles on
a modern electric railway. Besides its
many attractive features which will be
maintained all the year round, arrange-
ments have been made for a great assembly
to be held during July and August of 1905,
in a pavilion seating 3,000 people, on the
pier some 300 feet from the shore, beyond
the line of breakers, where the breezes are
always cool and where everything conspires
to make every hour pleasant. Benjamin
Fay Mills, whose name is known wherever
the English language is spoken and who
has recently become Permanent Minister of
the Los Angeles Fellowship, has been elected
President. The Secretary is the Hon. Dana
Burks, while the Vice-Presidents who have
accepted their election include the Hon.
George C. Pardee, Governor of California;
the Hon. George C. Perkins, U. S. Senator
from California; the Hon. Thomas R. Bard,
the Hon. Franklin K. Lane, the Hon.
William E. Smythe, founder of the Nation-
al Congress of Irrigation, and Abbott Kin-
ney, Esq.
	The plan includes first a series of national
sociological congresses on a scale never be-
fore attempted in America, except at the
World’s Parliament in Chicago during the
World’s Fair.
	A feature which will command attention
is a Summer University at which all the
lighter branches of general culture are to
be taught, including a School of Music, a
School of Modern Languages, a School of
Nature Study, a School of Ethics, and a
School of Expression.
	The plan provides for a series of lectures,
dramas, concerts, and other entertainments
of the highest class, participated in by lead-
ing people in their line in this country.
	One of the finest concert bands in the
country has been secured to give two pro-
grams a day. Entertainments will be fur-
nished by the amateur dramatic society, ex-
hilarating recreation will be provided in the
form of pure and ennobling amusements,
and a general effort made to promote good
fellowship.
	The spiritual department will not be
overlooked. Every Sunday morning a
great undenominational service will be held

[Column 2]
in the auditorium with the finest sacred
music, sermons being delivered by repre-
sentatives of all the great religious beliefs.
	No better idea could be given on the
scope of the work outlined than through a
more detailed analysis as planned for the
first division, which will be known as the
World’s Parliament. Under this head it is
planned to hold nine great assemblies or
congresses, beginning July Fourth with a
California Congress, at which it is expected
Governor Pardee will preside. Others in-
vited include U. S. Senators Perkins and
Flint and the Hon. William E. Smythe.
	A Patriotic Congress will follow to con-
sider national and inter-national interests.
The President of the United States will be
invited and strong hopes are entertained
that he will consent, as he expects to attend
the Portland Exposition. Secretary Taft
will be invited to speak on “Our Colonial
Problems,” and the presence of other
speakers of national prominence secured.
	Another great assembly will be known
as the Reform Congress, to which Mr. Al-
bert Shaw, Governor Alva Adams, Miss
Ida Tarbell, Senator La Follette of Wis-
consin, Mr. Thomas J. Lawson, Mr. Clar-
ence Darrow, and others are to be invited.
The other six congresses are to be as fol-
lows: One of Universal Peace, another to
be known as the Economic Congress, an-
other the Congress of Religions, then a
Philanthropic Congress and a Congress of
Psychic Research will follow in the order
named, at all of which speakers of world-
wide fame and of varying views will be in-
vited to give free, courteous expression to
their various opinions, the congresses clos-
ing on the first day of September, making
two months of greater activity along edu-
cational lines than has ever been enjoyed
at any summer assembly in the world.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw writes: “I see by 
the papers that in the report of the resolu-
tions passed by the Woman’s National
Council it is stated that ‘I led the attack’
on certain resolutions, and that I said when 
the race was not worth reproducing women 
should practice race-suicide. As a matter 
of fact, I left Washington Thursday noon,
and the resolutions were not presented till 
Friday, and there was no mention of race-
suicide. The reporters were determined to 
get some expression from us on the subject,
and we refused to be interviewed. But it
seems to make no difference whether you 
talk or not; they make up an interview or a
discussion.”


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

