Vol. 33 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1904. No. 6.


CONTENTS.

The New L. D. S. Hospital.........The Editor   41
Musty Leaves, Brown With Age......E. B. W. 42
Christmas Thoughts....................... 44
in Memoriam............................. 44
An Arizona Christmas (A Poem) Agusta Joyce
Crocheron....................... 45
Relief Society Social................... 46
Thanksgiving................Mrs. Candland 46
Relief Society Notice................... 48


[Picture of a four-floor bulding with classic, castle turret design, a late 1800s or early 1900s building]
DR. WM. H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS' HOSPITAL.


[Column 1]
THE NEW L. D. S. HOSPITAL.

lt is a matter of congratulation and re-
joicing that the L. D. S. Hospital is to be
opened Jan. 1, 1905. The great need there
has been of such an institution by our own
people has been keenly felt in the past and
to have such a magnificient building so
thoroughly equipped in every particular and
in all its departments is a matter of satisfact-
on and of justifiable pride.
To take the best care of the sick and
afflicted is one of the most laudable objects
of any community of people.
The Hospital building is situated on 8th

[Column 2]
St. between C. and D. and in appearance at
a distance reminds one of some of the an-
cient structures in England except that it
is new. It is built of buff brick trimmed
with gray stone. The rooms are all of them
pleasant, and give one the idea of cheer and
comfort. There are four stories above the
basement, the halls are wide and well light-
ed, the floors are of cement and laid with
English linoleum, the entire building is
properly ventilated. The reception room is
quite handsome with marble walls and tile
floors over the cement. There are eighty
rooms not including bath-rooms, closets,
toilets, laundry, etc. Forty-five of these
are private rooms furnished with every
modern luxury and appliance in the way of
convenience automatic tables, call-button
for nurse, telephone so that the patient may
communicate with her friends, and in fact
everything that the sick could need or de-
sire seems to have been provided for.
The dispensary and operating rooms sur-
pass in their style and furnishings anything
the writer has ever seen in the many hospi-
tals she has visited. We hope to give a
more minute description of the building, its
equipment and advantages in the paper

[Column 3]
later on, and now and hereafter seek to en-
courage the people who need hospital treat-
ment and care, to patronize this worthy in-
stitution, and especially should the Wo-
man’s Relief Society of the Church use
their influence in favor of sustaining this
noble enterprise, so long needed and so
much desired by the Latter-day Saints;
hoping that it may be successful financially
and otherwise, and prove a place of relief
for the sick, and wounded whatever the
nature of the malady may be, and in all re-
spects fill the expectation of its founders
and patrons.

THE EDITOR.


Mrs. Wynne, wife of the new postmaster,
general, was married when very young-
and it is said that her first long dress was
her wedding gown.
	Miss Mary Scott, State Superintendent of
Public Instruction in Idaho, is vice-presi-
dent of the Inland Empire Teachers’ Asso-
ciation, and was prominent at the seventh
annual meeting lately held at Pendleton,
Oregon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
CHRISTMAS IN AN ENGLISH VILLAGE.
	It was Christmas eve in a small manu-
facturing villiage in England, early in the
nineteenth century, and preparations for
the usual gay festivities were going forward;
young men and women were arranging the
mistletoe and holly in the prosperous homes
of the working people; and in many of the
cottages beer had been brewed by the prud-
ent house-wives who took care “the mas-
ter” should drink his good ale at home in-
stead of joining in a carouse at the village
inn. Everywhere it was plain to be seen
that the yearly Christmas festival was
drawing nigh. The one little church, ivy-
covered outside, was profusely decorated
within, and the choristers, dressed for the
occasion, were wending their way to begin
the sublime choruses.
	Not far from the church, in the most
pretentious house the village could boast,
there was great anxiety, bustle and confu-
sion. The doctor’s gig stood by the gate-
way, and the cottagers looked anxiously
about and around, and inquired of each
other whether there was any word from
Mrs. Windeyer, for the village folks were
all “agate” to hear the news, and each
one wanted to be first to tell “the glad tid-
ings,” if such it should be. “The master,”
as he was called by them all, was a prime
favorite, he had been born among them, as
they often said to each other,and there were
no doubts in their minds as to the doctor’s
prolonged stay at the “Squire’s house.”
	The evening grew late, and still no word
came. Indeed there seemed almost a
hush to brood over the homes of the neigh-
borhood; and the women, especially the
mothers, waited in almost breathless sil-
ence for the wheels of the doctor’s gig.
The doors were shut, for it was bitter cold,
and there was keen, sharp frost in the air;
music from the church rang out on the still
night, clear and full of tender pathos; and
the children, heeding not the cold, could be
seen in groups going up and down, here
and there singing snatches of Christmas
melodies as they threw from door to door
sprays of holly, calling out, “Christmas
box.” Finally all hilarity had ceased, and
quiet was settling down, then the Christ-
mas bells began ringing joyfully, and just
then Nurse Goodman came down the oaken
staircase in her soft slippers, beaming with
pride, though tears were on her cheeks, and
opening the door, of the great dining room
where “the master” sat by the open fire
uneasy and restless, announced ere enter-
ing, “Ye may’n come up now, Maister
Windeyer, as quick as ye like, ye’ve a fine
son born to the tune o’ the Xmas bells,
and he’l be mighty lucky, I’m sure, for he
roared as we could na hear the bells ring.”
	Many a good woman peeped out inquir-
ingly from behind her bedroom curtains as
the doctor’s gig rattled over the frozen
ground on his homeward way long after mid--
night; but the first gray dawn of morning
found the village very wide awake, and
the news that an heir was born to “Maister
Windeyer” on Christmas eve, just as the
bells’ were ringing, flew from house to
house like wildfire; and such a Christmas
they all declared there had never been since
the old “Maister Windeyer’s time.” Christ-
mas baskets laden with good things, were
distributed through the entire village, and
there was feasting and rejoicing and merry-
making the week through, great flagons of

[Column 2]
beer were opened for the men, and bottles
of good wine sent to the women folks.
	The women were not fond of the young
mistress, and they were free to talk of her
to one another, she was not their sort.
“Young Maister should have wed one of
the girls from hereabouts,” said Mrs. Hil-
lier to her neighbor, Janet Cousins (after
her first visit to see the baby) “and not gone
off to Bristol for a stuck up young woman;
I doubt me she’ll put fine notions into the
lad’s head when he grows up; he’ll not be
fit to take Maister’s place if he takes after
his mother, who’d listen to the likes o’ her,
I wonder?”
	“Now don’t be prophesyin’ evil of the
lad, he’s to be christened soon,” said Mrs.
Cousins, “and Lizzie tells me the boy’s robe
is two yards and a half long, of the finest
cambric muslin, and the lace is old Vene-
tian, and his head is so thick covered with
golden curls that Mrs. Windeyer told the
nurse he need’nt wear caps, (though they’re
all the finest lace) but Nurse Goodman
wouldn’t hear to it, and our Lizzie says as
how Mrs. Windeyer made herself sick a
cryin’ and frettin’ about the caps.”
	Lizzie was Mrs. Cousins’ daughter and a
sort of lady’s maid to Mrs. Windeyer, and
she never tired of repeating to her mother
what her young mistress said and did, and
Janet, as her mother was always called,
told everything to Mrs. Hillier (with whom
she never agreed about anything, how-
ever) for she had a kind heart and Mrs.
Hillier was envious that the young squire
had not taken to her daughter Fanny, to
whom he paid “great attentions,” as she
repeated over and over again till the whole
village gossiped about it, and Fanny was
so upset she declared “that she went off to
her uncle’s in Derby to be out of hearing,
and so’s nobody should see she was cut up
about the marriage.” The truth was she
went away until the gossip should die out,
for she was a sensible young woman, and
young Windeyer had given her to under-
stand what he had meant by “his atten-
tions” Mrs. Hillier had-talked of so much.
	“Well-a-day, whoever heard the like!”
said Mrs. Cousins to Lizzie, as the girl re-
peated to her mother the scene at the
Squire’s the night before the christening,
on her first visit home afterwards. “Little
you tho’t sittin’ there in the church so
solemn-like, what a fuss our. Mistress had
been making with the young Master the
night before, Nurse Goodman told the
whole thing to me. She wouldn’t think of
he’s even having his father’s name, as if
William wasn’t a grand name, when kings
have borne it, as Master told her, and his
father too before him; but no, she wouldn’t
hear of it, he must be called for his grand-
father, the Admiral, and she had her way
but I do think it is a mighty pretty name,
Edward; and Nurse said too as how the
Squire wanted Fanny Hillier to be the
child’s godmother, and the Mistress flew in-
to a passion directly and she said, “Yes,
I’ve heard of your attentions to that young
woman, and a nice scandal it would cause
if she were to be godmother; no, indeed,
I’ve sent for Aunt Matilda, and she’ll be
here presently; and sure enough, Nurse
said, just then the door bell rang, and be-
fore Mrs. Windeyer had quieted down,
Miss Gordon (Aunt Matilda as she called
her) had her wraps off and was; in the
room, and such a flurry as there was; but
the Squire was as sober as a judge, and
never a word did he say, so she had it all

[Column 3]
her own way, and Master has scarcely
spoken a syllable in the house since.”
	“And to think how fine and pleased we
all were, and wishing them joy like that,”
said Mrs. Hillier, when Janet repeated this
conversation to her, “she to think my Fan-
ny not good enough to be the child’s god-
mother (he’s a regular beauty, they all say)
and I doubt me he’l be as proud as a pea-
cock and Lord it over the workmen when
he steps in his father’s shoes, if he ever
should have that honor,”
	And half the village knew the story be-
fore it was a week old.
	Time went on and the village prospered,
and Mr. Windeyer grew rich with one in-
vention and another at the mills; but his
wife was as haughty as he was amiable,
and quite as much disliked as he as be-
loved. One more son had been born to
them, nine years after the first; but he was
a delicate boy, while Edward was strong
and manly, and a greater favorite than even
his father had been. Fanny Hillier re-
mained single and was Edward’s first teach-
er; and strangely enough, as he grew up, he
clung to her as his ideal, which vexed his
mother greatly, and she contrived by all
means in her power to keep her son away,
which only made matters worse. Fanny
had a younger sister, Caroline, who was a
sort of musical genius, a singer who played
the violin; and Edward would steal away
and spend his evenings there, singing and
playing on the flute to Carrie’s violin, while
the stately Fannie accompanied them on
the spinet.
	“He is only a boy, and will outgrow this 
childish love for girls so much older than
himself,” his father replied when appealed
to. “I have no fears, besides he must be
sent to college, we can well afford it; let
him go away from home, it is high time.”
Mrs. Windeyer had been urging him to
take some positive measures to break off
the intimacy with the people she considered
so far beneath her as the Hilliers.
	Mrs. Windeyer made up her mind Ed-
ward should go at once and set about the
preparations. His father was quite willing
he knew the boy was well advanced in his
studies, a fine scholar, all his teachers said,
but the parents realized he needed some
training and discipline beforehand, and fin.
ally decided he should go to Bristol, his
mother’s native city, and remain there a
year under the tutelage of a learned profes-
sor whom his mother had previously known.
	The boy went away willingly at last,
though he had protested against it and
made more ado about leaving Fanny Hil-
fier than his own father and mother, (of
which fact his mother was in blissful ig-
norance) though his father guessed it from
hints dropped by the elder Hillier, who was
one of the Squire’s trusted overseers at the
mills.
	The first few weeks Edward studied dili-
gently, and Professor Hadley wrote glow-
ing accounts of his young student to the
parents at Merton, but later on he in-
formed them that their boy was passion-
ately fond of the sea, though his lessons
were perfectly learned, he had such a won-
derful memory; but his thoughts seemed
far away, he was absent-minded and wheth-
er waking or dreaming, it was always the
sea, “It is born in the boy, and he can’t
help it,” said his father. “Undoubtedly
you’ve filled his head with nursery tales of
your grandfather, the old Admiral, and
you’ve hung those marine views in every


[Column 1]
room in the house to impress him with the
greatness of your ancestry, and then he
has possibly inherited a taste for that sort of
life; however, I’ll write to Prof. Hadley to-
morrow to hurry him off to Oxford, and
he’ll have something else to do than dream
by the seashore, his companions will cure
him of idle day dreams.”
	“I’m sure, William, you blame me for all
the boys faults. I can’t help my descent
from naval ancestry. It’s a great pity you
hadn’t married the Hillier girl, she is no
doubt keeping herself single for your sake,
it isn’t enough to have won your affection
but she’s tried to win my boy from me to
my sorrow,” said Mrs. Windeyer between
her sobs.
	“This is too serious an accusation to be
passed over silently,” replied the husband,
“never mention Fanny Hillier’s name to
me again, I positively forbid it,” and the
irate husband walked out of the house
without so much as good morning, the first
time since his marriage. His love for Mrs.
Windeyer amounted to devotion that had
never changed through all the misunder-
standings and unpleasant scenes. It was
true he had admired Fanny as a sort of
village sweetheart; but after he met Miss
Ellen Fairfax, he knew that the sentiment
he had cherished for Fanny was not the
love of a lifetime; he had often felt sorry
that Fanny did not marry, but he did not-
know, (as men seldom ever do) that she
could never marry any other man; such is
woman’s constancy when her heart is once
given to her true mate, even though that
love be given unsought. Fanny had never
breathed her secret, it could only be
guessed by the magician’s art, which un-
locks love’s secret cabinet, and whispers
softly to the winds at night-time when only
the birds are listening.
	Mrs. Windeyer fretted the live-long day.
She loved her husband, notwithstanding
her temper, and regretted that they had
parted in anger; but she was proudly am-
bitious for her son, she wanted him to be-
come a man of brilliant attainments, high
in the world’s favor. She cared little for
the affection of the people among whom
she lived, she seldom mingled with them
and though at intervals she gave them out-
door parties, she rarely appeared upon the
scene herself. Her husband felt this very
keenly, for he loved the village people, he
knew they were his true and loyal friends,
seeking his interest, while he in return
looked to the public welfare in which all
had common cause.
	Gradually the lives of the husband and
wife grew apart; there was no serious quar-
rel, she was unbearably sarcastic, and he
took her sharp sayings in dumb silence, his
love had received a fatal wonnd.
	Finally a heavier blow fell upon the
household than even the division of hus-
band and wife, for that might have been
bridged over. Just when the Squire was
planning what change might take place
when Edward came home at vacation, a
letter from the Professor came, bringing the
sad news that his son had dlsappeared; he
wrote “He has taken nothing with him.
we have had every one of his old haunts
starched, but no trace of him can be found,
we are ourselves deeply afflicted for he has
greatly endeared himself to us, and was
most respectful and affectionate, but though
we mourn, our hearts are much more deep-
ly grieved for yourself and his poor mother.”
	The clerk in the office looked up as he

[Column 2]
heard the sobs of this great strong man,
“his master,” when he read the letter; but
the Squire took no notice, though as he
arose to go he turned and said to the clerk,
“Shut the office at the usual hour, say I
have gone home if any one calls, I shall
not come back today,” and he passed out,
the open letter in his hand.
	“You have had bad news, sir, I am sor-
ry, can I do anything for you? Can I help
you? Shall I call a cab? You look so
broken up,” said the kind-hearted clerk.
	“No, thank you, I will walk, the fresh
air will do me good, besides I can think
better.”
	Yes, he had need to think over the situ-
ation. How could he tell the lad’s mother?
She would swoon, perhaps, he could not
bear to go home, not yet awhile. He
walked away into the fields, he recalled the
sayings of his son’s boyhood, when he would
climb upon his knee; things long forgotten
came back to him, “Papa, I shall go to sea
and be a great captain and have ships of
my own, and build pretty cottages for the
sailors,” and he would sing of the ocean,
the great bounding, tossing, foaming ocean.
Twilight came on while he strolled about
the fields, and when he turned homeward,
the lights were streaming from the cottage
windows. “I must go and tell Nellie our
boy has run away,” he said to himself, as
he hurried on, as one does when bent on a
hateful errand, lest he should not have the
courage if he lingered. Supper was ready
and Nellie and little Richard were waiting
his coming. He knew he could not eat,
but Mrs. Windeyer must have her tea, so
he took a cup, but his hand shook and his
wife noticing his nervous manner asked,
“Are you ill, William?”
	“No, only upset, I. shall be better soon.”
	“Has there been a disturbance at the
mills? The men grow restless towards pay
day, I’ve noticed.”
	“Nothing has gone wrong at the mills,
I’ve had a letter from Bristol about Ed-
ward.”
	“Has he gone away? Tell me the worst,”
said Mrs. Windeyer excitedly.
	“I can’t tell you, I don’t know myself,”
and he handed the letter to his wife.
	But she did not faint, or even weep as
she read on, “This is the old story over
again; he’s gone to sea, undoubtedly, he
knew we would not give our consent, and
so he’s gone without asking. We shall
hear from him soon, when he is far away,
so we cannot bring him back, he will take
no harm, he was born to the music of the
Xmas bells, rather a sea captain than the
owner and overseer of these humdrum-
mills.”
	Mr. Windeyer took Richard in his arms,
for comfort, such a frail child, and he said
“We’ll go upstairs. I must answer this
letter tonight, he must be found.”
	Accordingly the father wrote to the ship-
ping merchants at Bristol for particulars of
the ship’s crew on board the vessels that
had sailed about that time, and also to the
Professor to spare no means to ascertain
whither the boy had gone. Hearing nothing
satisfactory in reply, he set out himself for
Bristol and made diligent search, but all in
vain, no tidings could be obtained.
	Christmas came, but out of respect to the
Squire, the villagers refrained from making
any public demonstration. Never had there
been such a quiet Christmas, so the women
said, and indeed the young man’s fate was
truly lamented, and many a tear fell when

[Column 3]
ever his name was spoken. Even his
mother began to despond as time wore on,
and no news came of her darling boy. She
had been hopeful at first, but as day after
day she watched and waited, she grew pale
and sleepless, and finally so melancholy
that old Dr. Gray advised the seashore,
and her husband consented. “I shall be
nearer if my boy comes back, and more-
likely to hear news of him, and you shall
know immediately, William,” she said to
her husband the morning of her departure.
Aunt Matilda had come to travel with her
as the Squire could not leave his business
just then.
	“I knew how ’twould be,” old Mrs.
Hillier said, “I always said her pride would
have a fall; he’ll never come back, he’s
most likely dead, and that boy Richard
will never live to be a man. She’s punish-
ed hard enough for looking down on them
as made their money for em.”
	“Now, Sarah, that’s very wrong,” said
her husband, “she’s not punished for that,
better folks nor her are chastened. What
does the Bible say, Sarah? Read about Job,
how he was afflicted. Mind don’t go agin
scripture, there’s not a better man livin’
than Willie Windeyer, I’ve known him
since he were a wee lad, and as for Edward,
you can’t say there were any evil in him."
	“No, dad, I don’t say anything agin
Edward, but its the stuck-up Bristol wo-
man, but she’ll suffer for’t, pride must have
a fall, that’s scriptur, ain’t it dad?”
	“Not exactly, Sarah, but don’t rejoice in
anybody’s trouble, its wrong, its cruel, be-
sides you know how Fanny has always
felt about Edward, she’s sure he’ll come
back some day.” 
	“Well, yes, may be, and Carrie will be
married and gone, and she set such store by
him. I don’t see why I should be sorry for
’em, they’ve brung me no end o’ trouble,
what with Fanny bein’ in love with Will as
she’ll never get over it, and Carrie with Ed-
ward, I’m the one as is to be pitied.”
	“Carrie’s love wasn’t very deep I should
think, she’s sweet now on Jim Farley
a’ready, and you talkin’ of her marryin’
soon yourself.”
	“I’m glad if she do marry him and be
done with’t. I don’t want another old
maid in the family, a pinin’ for something
she’ll never git.”
	“Better have old maids than bad hus-
bands for our girls, but I’ve no objection to
Jim Farley, he’s a fine lad and a goodish
family, and we know em for what they are,
they’ll have my consent when they’re
ready.”
	It was hard for Mrs. Hillier to forgive,
she was an honest, upright woman, but
she wasn’t fond of “bettermost people” un
less they were very amiable. As for Ed-
ward, he had never thought of loving
Carrie, she was ten years older; but he
adored her sister Fanny, who was old
enough to be his mother, though of marri-
age the boy had never yet dreamed. 
	Three long years had gone by, and no
news of Edward Windeyer. Of all the
ships that had sailed out of Bristol, most of
them had come back heavy laden and gone
out again, but still his mother hoped on.
She had grown stronger and returned to
Merton, and though a sort of gloom per-
vaded the place at holiday times, yet usually
cheerfulness prevailed, and the Windeyers
were seldom without visitors from Bristol.
		Continued on page 46.


MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
		Continued from page 43.
	At Christmas time, three years and more
after Ned’s absence, (as his friends some-
times called him) and the Squire’s home
was filled with Bristol friends, mostly
young folks desirous of seeing a village
Christmas festival, and the Squire had in-
vited as many people from the mills as
could be accommodated The dinner was
to be at five o'clock, but as the day was
foggy, the lamps were lighted early and
gaiety seemed to reign within and without.
The Hilliers and the Cousins were there,
and many other mill hands. Mrs. Wind-
eyer seemed herself again, so old Dr. Gray
said to Fanny to whom of late he had been
devoted; but Fanny and Mrs. Windeyer
both seemed restless and apprehensive.
Dinner was over and toasts were being
given, but there was an awkward pause,
the guests not knowing exactly what
would be fit to propose, for each one pre-
sent realized the absence of the long-lost
son, who would have been the life of the
company, in fact the sorrow on his account
had been general in the community.
	Dr. Gray lifted his glass and was about
to speak. He had made up his mind to
propose a toast for the absent son, when the
boy himself, alive and well, appeared upon
the scene, fresh and blooming, in a mid-
shipman’s costume, his sailor hat with its
long streamers in hand, the golden curls
tossed back, and collar thrown open, dis-
playing a neck bronzed with sun and wind.
All eyes were fixed upon, him, and many a
glass dropped from the hands that held
them, shivering to atoms. Dr. Gray came
to the rescue; not a word, had been spoken, it
was like the dead come back again, the
doctor in a voice trembling with emotion
lifted his glass, “Here’s to the long-lost
lad returned to gladden hearts and home!”
“Speak, Edward, to your mother and fath-
er.’’
	Coming out of the fog and darkness into
the brilliant light, the young man was
dazed and totally unprepared for the scene
he had burst in upon; he came unannounced
to surprise the family, thinking it would be
a small party, though he had noticed the
brilliant lights; but when he saw the vil-
lagers, many whom he had known, he was
bewildered and speechless. He grasped
the situation, however, and graciously
withdrew, followed by his father, mother
and brother. Very little was said, the
company dispersed, Dr. Gray taking matters
in hand, the villagers withdrew, the guests
retired to their sleeping apartments, and
Edward though much in need of rest could
not sleep but sat long by the firelight of the
Christmas logs when all the lamps were
out, talking of his adventures to eager
listeners.
	He had not intended to go to sea, not
then, but he loved to see the ships sail out,
and to talk to the sailors. He was down at
the wharf and had been beguiled into one
of the many drinking places where a crowd
of fine, strong men were taking “grog’’ be-
fore going on board a great whaling vessel
that was anchored close by; he wanted to
see the ship pull out. He drank with one
of the lads, a fine young fellow about his
own age, and then went on board with him,
intending to get ashore again very soon,
but he fell asleep, and when he woke, all
was dark, and he could not recall where he
was or how he came to be in such a strange
place, for he could feel the motion of the


[Column 1]
vessel and turned dizzy when he tried to
rise.
	“What I endured for the first few days
on board that vessel,” he said, “can never 
be told, the remorse of conscience, the 
mortification, the despair; many times I 
prayed to die, I felt I could never meet my
father or mother or any of my former
friends again. We had a fine captain, he
blamed the young man, Tom Wetherell, for
bringing me on board, until I was so sorry
for Tom that I began to be reconciled to
my fate. He mourned for me, too, poor
fellow, and he tried to make up for it in
every way possible. He taught me how to
do my work, and I had the tact and skill
necessary to get on. We were always good
friends, and no matter where we put ashore,
he would entertain me in true hospitable
sailor style. Sailors have good hearts,
though their manners are rough and un-
couth, and their use of the King’s English
is beyond description. There were many
unpleasant experiences for a fellow brought
up tenderly as I had been, but the Captain
noticed this and gave me the easiest places,
and I improved so rapidly, and displayed
such uncommon courage and such an ad-
venturous spirit at times, that he promoted
me when our mate who was not over
strong at the beginning of the voyage was
quite unable to keep on duty, and I can-
not say but my great grandfather, the Ad-
miral, having been in His Majesty’s ser-
vice, had something to do with it.”
	The festivities on the day following
Ned’s return were on the most magnificent
scale ever known in Merton, and the whole
village was in a state of joyful excitement.
The very garb he wore was a great attrac-
tion to the young people. We who live in
this day and in an inland country know
comparatively little of how the sailor cos-
tume fascinates people, especially the young
generation. Scores of girls fell in love with
Edward Windeyer, and he was jovial and
courteous with all; but there were those of
them who were so much enamored of hm
that they watched with envy the attentions
he bestowed on others, and especially on
one, who as they said, “couldn’t compare
with the girls in his own vicinity.” She
was neither beautiful, nor yet attractive to
her own sex (who were for the most part
jealous of her) notwithstanding her plain
appearance, and her poverty yet the young
man admired her, she could converse well,
and her voice was singularly pathetic and
musical; she was graceful in manner and
danced beautifully.
	“Think of Edward Windeyer being en-
gaged to Miss Morley, and he has only met
her three or four times,” said spiteful Hettie
Willis to her two friends, Olive Somers and
Anna Dalley, the trio they were called, all
well to do, of good families, girls of style,
the tip top of society in Merton, in fact they
boasted on occasions that their fathers were
not in Squire Windeyer’s employ, but in
business of their own, and their mothers
had never worked for a living, not even as
governesses; indeed, they were well-con-
nected as the world goes.
	But even so, Edward fell in love at first
sight with Miss Morley. His mother fretted
and fumed, but all to no purpose his fath-
er said nothing, but allowed him to do as
he pleased. Finally when it became ap-
parent that the matter was serious and he
was determined to marry Miss Morley, if
he could persuade her to accept him, (which
was not an easy matter), his mother en-

[Column 2]
deavored to dissuade him from taking such
a course, or even entering into an engage-
ment while so young; and implored his
father to forbid the marriage, declaring she
believed it to be due to the interference of
Fanny Hillier, who, she said, seemed ever
her “evil genius.” At last the mother con-
soled herself with the thought it would
keep him at home, and she took the first
opportunity of inviting the young lady to
the house. After much persuasion and en-
treaty, Miss Morley at last consented to
beard the lioness in her home, so to speak,
for she was in mortal dread of Mrs. Wind-
eyee, having heard so much of her pride
and haughtiness.
	Once within the Windeyer home, Ed-
ward never left his fiance for an hour if he
could avoid it, lest his mother should
frighten her away, for she was as timid as
a bird.
	Mrs. Windeyer looked her over quizzi-
cally and inquired into her pedigree, every
now and then saying, “humph,” or “so he
was your uncle,” or “she was your grand-
mother,” with anything but an approving
tone or manner.
	After the visit of Miss Morley to the
Windeyer’s in their own home, Mrs. Wind-
eyer was still more opposed than before,
and said to her boy, “Ned, the girl has no
sort of family reputation to fall back upon,
she is only from the common people for all
her fine manners and accomplishments. I
wish you would give up this whim, you
will soon tire of those soulful eyes and
dainty ways she is not of good blood, she
has really nothing to recommend her go
back to Bristol and prepare for Oxford un-
der Professor Hadley, he will gladly take
you again, and you may marry among the
best families your father’s wealth would
be an inducement for any girl, and you
surely will regret it if you take this child
without either money or ancestry.”
	Even after all the entreaties it was possi-
ble for his mother to use, Edward persisted
in his determination, and Richard stood by
by him. saying, “Mama, she is lovely, and
sings like an angel. I love her myself
more than Ned does. I wish I could marry
Margaret: no one should hinder me, not
even my father, if I were older and she
would have me.”
	Mrs. Windeyer was puzzled, and in-
quired, “Who told you her name, Rich-
ard?”
	“She told me, and said I could call her
sister; and I will, no matter who dislikes
her besides, she is not so much in love
with Ned, it’s only his imperious manner
and she hopes to win him over to love home
and country life, and leave off sea-faring,
which will make him coarse and rough, and
wean him from those who love him so de-
votedly.”
	“Oh, is this all, Richard? We shall see
what Margaret will do anon. I am not
jealous of my little brother, but no one must
interfere, and mama, I must be the sole
judge in this matter of marriage, and shall
take this little village maiden who is with-
out anything to recommend  her, so you
say, and perhaps not much, save her inno-
cence and purity of heart and soul.”
	The Squire gave his consent willingly to
the marriage, and three months after the
young lady’s visit to Merton they were
joined in wedlock in the little church at
Easton, the town where Margaret Morley’s
parents were born and died. Mrs. Windeyer
would not consent to witness the ceremony,

[Column 3]
though the young couple came home with
the father as soon as the wedding celebra-
tion was over.
	One year of “love’s sweet young dream”
and of intense sorrow for the bride, and
Margaret fled from the home that was un-
bearable to her sensitive nature—fled to
Fanny Hillier for protection and sympathy.
She would not go to her grandma (who had
reared her), to burden her with sorrow
father and mother were both dead, and she
had no brother or sister. Mrs. Windeyer
had made her life unendurable—she had
professed everything and fulfilled nothing.
“Such a child, she can never really be a
wife or a mother,” she had said to Ned
once or twice in the wife’s presence.
	“Let her be,” Mrs. Windeyer said to Ed-
ward; “she’ll come back of her own ac-
cord but if you go after her to coax her,
she’ll be trying the same thing again.”
	Richard pined for her almost as much as
Ned himself, but he was positively forbid-
den to go to see her.
	Squire Windeyer advised Edward to take
a house and make a home of his own near
them, for he was fondly attached to Marga-
ret, and he knew it would be impossible for
him to visit her at the Hillier cottage. The
kind-hearted man said to his son, “Marga-
ret needs sympathy now, and Fanny is
overflowing with tenderness and love for
all humanity; she is the very person to
whom one can go in trouble the only one,
my boy, who never lost faith in you—nev-
er gave you up when you were so long
away from home. She believed in your
fidelity and was sure you would come back
someday.”
	Evidently Mrs. Hillier did not respond to
the generous impulses of her daughter, and
she took occasion to speak her mind rather
freely to Fanny one day soon after young
Mrs. Windeyer had taken refuge at their
home.
	“A pretty scandal this will make, tak-
ing in Edward’s wife. I have no patience
with such nonsense. If she can’t live with
his mother, let her go back to her own.
You’ll be talked about finely for mixing up
in this affair. Mrs. Windeyer will not
spare you, you know that well enough.”
	“Hush, mother, for pity’s sake she will
hear you her ears are so quick to catch the
least sound.”
	It was already too late. Margaret had
heard all, and felt the sting. She knew it
was true that Mrs. Windeyer would not
spare Fanny in the least, though in her
trouble she had not thought of it; but now
she would go before anyone could hinder
her—whither she knew not. Putting on
her hat and cloak, she disguised herself as
much as possible, and though trembling in
every limb and weak from excessive grief,
she ran down the garden walk and was out
upon the high road before anyone knew she
had left the house.
	Fanny went in with a dainty lunch to
tempt her appetite, and found the room
deserted, her wraps gone, then she knew
Margaret must have overheard her mother
and putting on her own things she started
to follow and bring her back if possible.
The search was vain, and she sent a mes-
sage to Edward, but his mother intercepted
it, and night coming on, Fanny, restless with
anxiety, waited, not knowing what to do.
Morning brought no news, and Fanny be-
gan inquiring on her own account. Mr.
Windeyer, however, heard it at the mills,
and severely reprimanded his son for the


[Column 1]
first time in his life. Mrs. Windeyer heard
the scathing rebuke and said placidly, “She
has gone to her grandma, whom she adores
more than anyone in the world.”
	Before she could say any more, Edward
had left the home forever. “I must find
her, dead or alive,” he soliloquized as he
strode off. “Fanny must know I’ve gone,”
and he dashed off a note in pencil as he
walked on, and mailed it before leaving
town.
	Those were not the days of telegrams and
fast trains, but he knew the road to East-
on, yet he questioned her going there. He
changed his mind and went direct to Bris-
tol, and though he knew it not, Margaret
had taken a coach a few miles out of Mer-
ton and gone to that large city. She was
not without money and had with her all her
jewelry.
	Arriving there he began his search, and
after one whole week he found her where
she had taken lodgings. She, was suffering
great mental agony. A doctor had been
called in, who had said immediately, “Send
for her mother,” then noticing the wedding
ring she wore, asked for her husband. Ed-
ward arrived opportunely, and wrote un-
hestitatingly for the one friend he knew he
could depend upon, Fanny Hillier, who
came as fast as horses could travel, Mean-
time a babe had been torn to the pale,
sweet child-mother, and Margaret was
happy now, after all her suffering, and re-
covered speedily. The young husband
was anxious to take his wife and child
home to Merton, but the little mother
would uot be persuaded to go. “No, nev-
er! Take me to my own home, to my
grandma, where I shall be always welcome.”
And her wishes were complied with.
	One cold morning, Edward, Margaret
and baby, accompanied by the faithful
Fanny, set off in a rumbling old stage
coach for the little town of Easton, only a
few miles off, and were put down at Grand-
ma Morley’s door. The old lady’s delight
was positively exhilarating when she saw
the happy party arrive. She had heard
nothing of the troubles and changes of her
darling grandchild, though she had warned
her against marrying Edward, when she
learned he had been at sea. “No more
parting now,” Ned said, when he saw
how delighted Margaret looked; and he
meant it then, but he did not measure his
own strength correctly. He was too near
the sea. Fanny believed in him, so did his
wife, but his resolves were vain. Very
soon a letter came from his mother re-
proaching him with ingratitude. “Richard
is ill, nigh unto death. Leave Margaret
with the nurse and come to us,” his moth-
er wrote. After this letter Edward was
worried and perplexed. His father had
sent money for all expenses so far, but his
wife and child needed delicacies, but he
must work. Another letter came from His
mother, upbraiding him with neglect, and
declared that unless he returned to them
with his wife and child, he should never
have a penny with her consent, and he felt
sure she would carry out the threat.
	“The sea wilt bear me away out of all

[Column 2]
this. I will go aboard a merchantman, a
few months’ voyage around the Mediterra-
nean, and when I return all will have set-
tled down, and I shall have plenty of money
of my own.” This was how he reasoned,
and at last Margaret bravely consented. He
sailed away true-hearted and strong, in-
tending to be gone only for a short voy-
age.
	Fanny Hillier returned home and an-
swered all the numerous questions of
neighbors, but Mrs. Windeyer would not
condescend to inquire even concerning her
own.
	Fanny’s father, however, kept the Squire
posted, giving him full particulars about
his little girl grandchild.
	Richard was very ill, and when the
Squire would sit by him alone, he would
tell him of Edward’s baby and promised
him as soon as he was well he would
take him to see little Ruth. Richard re-
peated to his mama that he was to go and
see the baby, and Mrs. Windeyer made up
her mind to get the little girl for her own.
She had wished for a daughter when Rich-
ard came, and now she saw an opportunity,
she wrote to her Aunt Matilda at Bristol to
come to her, and to try and persuade Ed-
ward’s wife to let her bring the baby with
her for Richard’s sake, knowing how Mar-
garet had loved him, and how self-sacrific-
ing she had been for others, she flattered
herself this would induce the mother to let
the child come to her. Miss Gordon wrent
to Easton and urged Margaret to give the
baby to Mrs. Windeyer, but the little
mother stoutly refused—“Not if I had to
beg my bread from door to door would I
part with my baby.” She made no com-
plaint, indulged in no recriminations, but
Miss Gordon knew by her manner that
her entreaties were vain. Miss Gordon
was annoyed when meeting Mrs.
Morley to find her an old schoolmate,
whom she had lost sight of for many
years, and many pleasing reminiscences
were recalled and the day was spent agree-
ably after all.
	When Annt Matilda arrived at Merton,
Richard was sinking rapidly, but as soon
as she found an opportunity she told her
niece the result of her visit to Margaret,
and added, “Your son’s wife comes of a
fine old Bristol family—her grandmother
was at boarding school with me; one of
the most charming girls, and married a
most brilliant officer; a widow now, with,
a moderate income, and as grand as a duch-
ess in appearance.”
	“But the child, Aunt Matilda! You see
Richard is dying, and I shall be left child-
less.”
	It was hard for Miss Gordon to see her
grief—she loved her niece; but she must
speak plainly now. “You will never have
that child, Nellie, unless the mother should
die. It is selfish to ask. She is alone; her
husband gone, perhaps never to return—
the sea is treacherous; and you have wealth,
position, and a husband to be proud of,
while she is almost alone in the world and
worships the little daughter.”
	It was a trying moment for Aunt Matil-

[Column 3]
da. She had never spoken unkindly to
anyone, but she was a woman of sense and
experience, and she felt Nellie needed to
be told the plain truth, and it might in
her great sorrow soften her heart and cause
her to relent and to repent.
	Concluded in January Number.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1904


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	If one could give to all the needy and
unfortunate at Christmas time, how happy
one might be, but the world’s needs are
many and there is so little one can do to
make things better, or to help just the few
of one’s own acquaintances, and even then
the knowledge that there are great needs,
and much suffering that cannot be reached
and perhaps for which no remedy has yet
been found, leaves one despondent over the
world’s betterment. Still most people do
try at Christmas to give some sort of up-
lift to the day, and one’s neighbors and
friends, particularly the children, and as it
seems children’s day more than any other
day in the whole year, one ought to do all
that is possible to teach them what Christ-
mas means, and how it should be kept.
	The narration of the birth of the Christ-
child is far more fascinating than any
Santa Claus story, if told in its simplicity,
with vivid word pictures. The children
always want to hear about babies, and this
story of Jesus in the manger never grows
old; the shepherds tending their flocks at
night, the glory that shone round about
them, the wise men bringing precious gifts,
walking with staffs in their hands and
wearing long flowing robes; and Mary the
sweet mother with the beautiful child in
her arms, these truths unfolded in the
simple language children can comprehend,
will make lasting impressions on the little
one’s mind. The golden rule applied “To
do to others as ye would they should do to
you” is the lesson to be given early to the
children in season and out of season.
	This year has been a bountiful one in all
respects and the people have special reason
for ministering to those who are les favor-
ed, and in this city appearances would indi-
cate there were no hungry one’s at Christ-
mas time even among the poor. The Sal-
vation Army people gather of all kinds and
open their arms and their hearts to the
poorest of the poor. Miss Eva Booth com-
mander of the Salvation Army in the
United States says, “Give us the children
and we will save the world.” Shall we
who profess so much let any little waif go
without either temporal or spiritual salva-
tion.
	Assurdly not! We have our Primary
Associations for the little folks and a grave
responsibility rests upon those in charge.
True mothers love all children, not only
their own, but the children of the great
world outside iheir own four walls, and can

[Column 2]
never be quite content while there are
children who are hungry and poorly clad.
This is the true Christmas spirit, the real
mother love that must penetrate the heart
of the world. The Primary’s are daring a
grand and noble work, let us hope they
may be able to reach all the children and
gather them in where the Golden Rule is
not only taught but exemplified in univer-
sal love towards one another.
	In the new year now almost dawning,
what great possibililies may be unfolded,
none of us can tell, but we who have faith
in the great future should certainly put
forth our best efforts in the work of educa-
tion in its largest and best sense, and we
in our mountain home have so many ad-
vantages for the spread of truth, and every
year the work of imparting true knowl-
edge increases. The tens of thousands of
children born in Zion what a mighty host
they are, what may not these little ones do
towards the spiritual progress of the world’s
civilization in the years to come.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

MRS ELMINA SHEPARD TAYLOR,
PRESIDENT Y. L. N. M. I. A.

“It is one long chapter of memories,
	Tender and true and sweet,
That gleam on the past and the distance.
	Like lamps that burn at her feet.
“Like stars that will shine forever—
	For time cannot touch or stir
The graces that her life has given,
	Or the trust that we give to her,”

	If these words were ever true of any
who have gone, they are true of our
dear departed and beloved Sister Taylor,
One long chapter of memories comes before
the mind’s eye of the writer as she tries to
collect her wandering thoughts, that range
back over the years that are gone beyond
recall.
	Oh, the visions that shine out clear and
bright, and tell of the beautiful life of the
friend we shall see no more this side the
vail, that shuts us out from those who have
journeyed on to the heavenly mansions.
	We miss them so, and tears will come,
although we know they would not return.
They have finished their mission here, and
are prepared for better and higher things.
	Our beloved sister could not tarry longer
here; mighty love and faith kept her when
it seemed almost impossible again and
again for her to rally and regain her hold
upon life; that her life work was well
rounded out and complete, all will surely
admit. Yet human love is selfish; knowing
her suffering, how could those who even
needed her most ask that she linger long-
er, hard as the parting must be. God was
good to her and those around her that she
passed peacefully away after years of patient
suffering.
	If those who were watching then could
have beheld the escort that came to convoy
her to the “other side,” it would have been
a glorious scene, and to have heard the
heavenly voices would have thrilled the
souls of all present; but we mortals are
not permitted to witness these ecstatic tri-
umphs; only we know by the intuition
given of the Spirit, that we go not forth
alone. There have been testimonies to
prove these facts; they are not frequent,
but enough to give one who believes in

[Column 2]
heavenly messengers, assurance of these
angelic attendants.
	Sister Taylor’s life had been so closely
guarded always by her devoted husband,
that one cannot think she could be left to
herself. Their home life has been as nearly
perfect as possible, and this must be a great
consolation to those who miss her presence
in the home circle. Life was very sweet
to her, except because of her ill-health.
But dwell upon it as we may in all its
phases, we cannot do aught but seek to
reconcile ourselves to the inevitable.
	It is for those who loved and admired her
noble character, her wisdom, her patience,
her great fortitude, to endeavor to follow
her footsteps and fill up their days in use-
fulness, as she has striven to do. She pos-
sessed and cultivated all the characteristics
that make for excellence in womanhood;
whatever she did was well done, no matter
how distasteful the task might be. Her
integrity to the Gospel was unquestioned,
and her fidelity to every principle was prov-
en b yond all doubt. She had been “tried
as by fire,” and her spirit did not quail—
she never faltered.
	She has gone, and we know and realize
all is for the best, yet we shall miss her
greatly, and especially will those who de-
pended upon her advice and counsel in the
organization of which she was the central
figure and light, encircling them all in the
arms of her great love, and giving to each
one her portion in due season. But they
must learn to stand without her to lean
upon—the love will remain, though they
cannot see her nor hear her voice; yet the
remembrance of the intimate association
will be as a sweet fragrance shed on their
onward pathway while life lasts. They can
never forget what she has been to them.
	Sister Taylor was born of goodly parents,
of the old Puritan stock, though her birth-
place was in Middlefield, Ostego county,
New York, September 12th, 1830. She
was educated for a teacher, graduating from
a ladies seminary, and taught school
for several years at Haverstraw, on the
banks of the Hudson; while there engaged
in teaching she became acquainted with
George H. Taylor, who resided in that lo-
cality, and it was there also she heard the
Gospel and accepted its teachings, and was
baptized a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and very soon
after married to Brother George H. Taylor,
August 31, 1855. The marriage ceremony
was performed by Apostle John Taylor, who
was at that time presiding in New York.
	Brother and Sister Taylor came to Utah
in 1859, and have resided here ever since.
Brother Taylor has been Bishop of the
Fourteenth ward in this city many years.
	Sister Taylor was the mother of seven
children, all of them born here; three sons
and one daughter with several grandchild-
ren remain to mourn the loss of a wise,
tender and loving mother; but she has
gone to join those three little ones who pre-
ceded her to the spirit world, and over
whom she will rejoice with joy surpassing
all earthly happiness; and there are many 
to welcome her to the mansions of glory
and rest—her father and mother and rela-
tives, and many dear friends.
	Among her associates who will rejoice at
her coming and with whom she will meet
and bear tidings will be Sister Eliza R.
Snow, Aunt Zina Young, and Sisters Hey-
wood, Howard, Richardson, Helen Whitney, 
Sarah M. Kimball, and many more.


Sister E. S. Taylor's death occurred
about 11 a.m. Tuesday, December 6, 1904,
at her well-known residence in this city.
One less at home!
The charmed circle broken—a dear face
Missed, day by day from its accustomed place,
But purified and perfected by grace,
One more in heaven!
	The funeral services of Sister Taylor
were held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
on Sunday, December 11, under the aus-
pices of the General Board of the Y. L. M.
I. A. assisted by the Y. M. M. I. A. The
hall was artistically draped in white, giv-
ing an effect of the utmost purity in design,
the flowers were delicate in color and beau-
tiful in variety, and the entire appearance
of the building denoted perfection in all
its details. The office[-]s and General Board
were seated on the stands, the upper stand
only being occupied by the First Presidency
of the Church and some of the speakers.
President Joseph F. Smith presided, and
also made the principal address in honor of
the deceased. Everything was of the high-
est order of merit and excellence, as well as
beauty in every particular. The whole effect
was of purity and sublimity in keeping with
the life and character of their departed presi-
dent and leader.
	At another time we hope to make a more
extended notice of the funeral.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AN ARIZONA CHRISTMAS.
In a country new, where settlers made
Their cabins far, far apart,
Where heavy timber deep shadows laid,
Lived a woman sad at heart;
For her husband was an outlaw wild,
And fleeing from law and men,
Had left his home and wife and child,
In a lonely mountain glen.

Many a weary month had passed
Nor letter nor tidings came;
Of whom could the lonely woman ask,
When the very thought was shame?
She had tilled the ground and gathered in
The little store of food,
But count it all, 'twould not suffice,
To fill their wants tho' rude.
And she thought of the little feet all bare,
Toughened and bruised and cold,
And then, of the mining town—’twas there
The miner's brought their gold.

She knew of but one thing she could sell,
And 'twas not a woman's task,
But had not a woman a right as well?
She would go and see and ask.
And so she gathered the fallen wood,
And harnessed the faithful team,
She piled it high and she bouud it good
And through it all, like a dream,
She saw her table filled again
With good things needed long—
Shoes for the stone-bruised feet—and then
Unconscious hummed a song.

When she reached home the sun was down,
But she baked the next day's bread:
She brought in wood and piled around,
Then supper, and prayers were said,
When the morning broke, as they sat and ate,
She said to her child[-]en three:
"I am going away, and it will be late
Before you must look for me;
But here is food for the noonday meal
Aud this is for supper too;
And keep a fire, and cheerful feel
And God will watch over you.

"If you are sleepy before I'm here,
Lie down in your mama's bed,
With hearts of prayer, and no danger fear,
But rest in peace instead;
Keep shut the door, for the wind may rise,
And perhaps the snow may fall;
And mother will bring a glad surprise,
If you do as I've told you all"
And then she kissed each sunburned cheek
And fastened herself, the door;
But looked back oft to the lonely place
From the dreary road before.

[Column 2]
Ten of the fifteen miles were gone,
When out from the dark'ning cloud
The thunder broke with a heavy roar
And the wind swept high and loud,
The earth was drenched with a chilling rain,
And then it changed to snow:
’Till her trembling form was filled with pain,
And five miles yet to go.
Slowly the faithful team went on
With dull and drooping head;
The light of day from the earth had gone
But the town-lights gleamed ahead.

Out from a building bright and warm,
A rough man stepped, then called—
And others hastened out in the storm
And faced as with fear appalled—
A team that stood as if hewn from stone.
A figure above, all white
That turned nor moved when the bright light,
	shone,
Nor answered the men's salute.
They climbed the seat and they lifted down
The form in a man's coat clad.
They b[-]re it in and gathered 'round
With faces wondering, sad.

Then a shock went 'round the eager crowd
As they saw a woman’s face—
“A woman!” they dared not speak out loud,
“In such a night, and in such a place!"
A face that none there e'er had known
But the coat—some knew that [-]ell;
There were bullet holes in the sleeves
	and one
Could the owner's story tell.
"It is Dick Hale's coat! It is Dick Hales'
	wife!
And she has been forced to bring
That wood to sell and has risked her life
For her children’s suffering.”

Then while they stared, the warmth brought
back.
The life-blood's course with pain;
Of help and comfort there was [-]o lack—
But her poor bewildered brain
Cared not the faces of rude, rough men
That tenderer grew at her cry:
'I must get back to my home again
Or my little ones will die.”

"We'll take you back, yes, this very night,
As fast as a team can go,
Tell what you want, it will be all right—
We’ll be off in an hour or so."
Out of the shamed old coat she drew
A paper, and they read:
"Shoes for Dick and little Sam,
A dress of white and red
For baby May, and some trifles small
To hang in their stockings, then
Two story books, and a little doll,
And sugar and tea." The men
Passed it around; "Who'll buy the load?"
Every hand in the crowd went high,
And every rough face smiling showed
One thought as they passed by.

Out in the storm and adown the street
To the largest store they went,
It was Christmas Eve, and cold nor sleet
Could hinder these men’s intent.

Sa[-]d one, "I'm in for a big fat goose,
it's good on a Christmas day.
Fixed up right with cranberry juice
And apples and pies, anyway.”

Said another, "just give me a spiced pork
	roast.
And a pudding boiled—women kno[-]
	how—
And rich mince pie, and doughnuts; most
People would like that—now[-]"

Then an English born, pleased voice said
	"No,
Roast beef is a better still,
With real plum pudding and a cake or so,
It makes a right royal fill.”

Then a Yankke spoke up after that:
"You can all get what you please.
But mine's a turkey—you bet your hat!
With pumpkin pie, stuffing and cheese."

But each one carried out his own plan,
As he had a right to do;
And each one thought of little Dan,
Of Dick and the baby too.

[Column 3]
And of toys the pile assumed su[-]h size,
That the merchant smiling, said:
"You have large families, I surmise[-]"
But the buyers went ahead,
Apples and oranges, red and gold,
Harmonicas, drums and fifes,
Painted horses and lions bold,
Marbles and mittens and knives.
Then gently came the grocer's wife:
"For the little girl a doll,
For the little boys a top and a knife,
'Twill please them best of all."
The grocer tied up rasins and rice,
Sardines and pickles and jam.
Coal-oil, soap, and tea and spice;
"That's the kind of a man I am."

Back to the warm old "Grocery" went
The men with great bundles all;
And the smiling merchant swiftly sent
The varied parcels all;
Asleep the wearied mother lay,
The glowing lamp turned low;
She needs to rest the time away
'Till the boys are here to go."

Then the sound of light bells woke the air
And the moon shone clear and bright,
On a loaded sleigh, at the old place where
The tired team stopped that night.
The goods all in—they brought her out
And helped her to her seat;
A bear skin robe piled high about
And soft furs at her feet;
The skin of a mountain lion spread
Before her to ward the cold,
A purse,—“The price of the wood,” they
	said—
In her trembling hands to hold.

"Good bye! A Merry Christmas!" cried
The grocer's honest voice;
And the group that stayed behind, all tried
In "hurrahs" to vent their joys.

Forward—the Livery’s horses sprang,
And the hardy, true souled men
Out on the night air loudly sang,
A Christmas song of their childhood's time,
Forgotten, for oh[-] so long—
But the Christmas spell and its own old
	rhymes,
Freshen even the heart gone wrong.

Was it the same road she had come,
Facing alone the storm[-]
Sinking at heart and with lips benumbed,
And now, all blessed and warm?
O, the flying hoofs and the ringing bells,
And the world so sparkling bright.
Yes—the presence of His Spirit tells—
It is the one, same night,
Where her jaded team, with its heavy head
Dragged painfully and slow,
The shining harness like silver glowed
And crystals gemmed the snow,
The outlaw's coat was hid in furs
And joy, not pain was here,
The trust of the pure in heart was her's
And her home and loved were near.

Ah! they had flown—those splendid four,
While wrapt in her rest from pain,
They had drawn the rein at her own door,
She was with [-]er own again.
They entered in and all quiet lay
Both little Dick and Da[-],
And across the body of baby May,
Dick clasped her dimpled hand,
From the great back log still glowing there
The smouldering embers warmed;
O'er stone-bruised feet, uncovered, bare,
In peaceful sleep unharmed.

They brought in all the great sleigh's load
As silently as though
The peace and bliss of that abode
Were such as angels know.
At last they turned and looked at her,
And at the children's bed,
Then at the chimney's mantle; "Were
You going to?" "Yes"—she read
The happy question; "Help me, please,
For I don't kno[-]"—"Yes, but we do;"
And in a moment on bended knees,
Boxes were opened out to view,

Boots red-topped and with stockings gay,
They hung them up high above;
Toys and music and books in array,
O, sacrifice! and O, love!
Blessings to gladden the lonely place,


Comforts to eat and to wear;
Silence—but shone in each glowing face,
	Happiness! and to spare.
Blankets soft as the young lambs fleece,
	Scarlet and blue and gray;
Robes of the bear and the lion, these
	Were their gifts for her that day.
Goose and turkey and beef,
	Each man had done his will;
Pastry and fruits from the baker’s chief;
	Candies and nuts until,
Everything bad been put in place,
	Then they took one more look
Up to the mantle, rude, but graced
	With gifts upen every hook;
Looked once more at the sleepers there,
	Then—as a chicken crew—
Started and stared! “Well, I’ll declare!
	Good bye—Merry Christmas to you!”

Out on the faintly growing dawn
	The bells rang merrily,
She listened until the sounds were gone,
	Then sank on bended knee.
Then as she piled her fire anew
	And spread her table clean,
Thesunlight entered the windows through
	And lighted the blessed scene.
“Mama,” Mary’s waking voice called out—
	O, have you come? We’ve been
Just as good as—O! what’s that?”
	Her shout awakened the little men.
No need now to say more of this:
	Every Christmas morn.
Every household knows the bliss
	That comes to the Christian born.
As though forgetting everything
	Bright little Dick made pause—
“I dreamed that I heard sleigh bells ring—
	I knew it was Santa Claus”
And as Dan’s wandering eye fell on
	Robe of lion and grizzly bear—
He cried—“Oh, Santa Claus has gone
	And left his furs! See there.”

When the sleigh and the flying four reached
		town,
	It was all awake with noise,
And the Grocer’s friends had gathered round,
	To welcome back “the boys.”
They leaned in silence, anxious for
	The tale told soft and low,
And then they joined in a big “HURRAH”
	FOR THE WOMAN IN THE SNOW!

But they never thought to cheer again
	For the hearts and deeds so good.
They lifted above the gifts of men,
	The soul of womanhood.
And they did not revel that day and night,
	As else they might have done;
For the hurried hours had fanned a light
	That guided everyone.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Erda.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	The Relief Society of the Leipzig branch,
Germany, on Monday gave a coffee (barley)
social in the L. D S. hall. Tables placed
around the room looked so dainty, with
their cream cloths, where the kuchen
(cakes) were heaped later on.
	This society was organized about three
months ago, and this the first event of a
social nature, was given on Reformation
Day, October 31st, which is a general holi-
day in Germany, commemorating the day
on which Martin Luther preferred his nine-
ty-five charges against the Catholic church
in 1517.
	It also partook of the nature of a fare-
well to President Charles J. Thomas, un-
der whom they were organized, and who
has been called to preside over the work in
another part of the vineyard.
	An interesting program was carried out
of speeches, recitations and songs.
	One sister composed a song of thankful-
ness for the organization of the society. A
brother set it to music and two sisters sang
it.
	Brother Kritchmar, in the name of all


present, expressed gratitude to President
Thomas and the writer for the organization
of the Society. While coffee and kuchen 
were being served, Herr Bertram, a pro-
fessional on the piano, sang some of his
own fine compositions. A trio was rendered
by three young sisters, and Sister May C.
Alder sang sweetly a couple of German
songs. Besides this two brothers and sis-
ters recited.
	The writer was asked to speak. Presi-
dent G. Alfred Alder interpreted to the 
Saints. Elder Thomas interpreted the 
Saints remarks to her.
	After the tables were cleared away some
games were indulged in, much to the enjoy- 
ment of young and old. A few dances
closed the festivities, and by 9 o’clock all
were happily wending their way home-
ward.
	The Society is doing well and enjoy their
labors. A few sick Saints claim their at-
tention and care. They are in a sound
financial condition, and are great workers.
President Gumtier was ably assisted by her
Counselors, Sisters Kretchmar, Loefler and
Lydia D. Alder.			L. D. A.


THANKSGIVING. 
	Thanksgiving is now considered by 
young and old to be one of the greatest 
and most glorious events of the entire year. 
It is a day on which we all seem to open 
our shut hearts freely, and try to make 
our homes cheerful and bright. As we all
know;

	“The heart has many passages 
Through which the feelings roam,
	But its middle aisle is sacred 
To the old, old home.”

	At the call of our beloved President with 
gladness and gratitude and in conformity 
with the beautiful custom of our national 
life, we pay the tithe of thankfulness to our 
Universal Father for His great mercy and
goodness.
	Custom has broadened the horizon of the 
day, and made it more than one of mere 
formal thanksgiving. We are all coming 
to see that gratitude to God does not con-
sist merely in prayer and psalm and song,
however beautiful and sincere they may be, 
but rather in that ministry to men out of 
the store of all which comes to bless our 
life, because we are the children of God. It 
is fit and proper that we should remember 
the mercies of the year. The great tide of 
goodness that has overflowed the shores of 
our humble life, the abundant prosperity 
that has rested upon all the land, the bless-
ing of home and friends and simple faith 
and love, should make an indelible impres-
sion upon every heart. Of course, our 
own lives with their perils and needs, their 
problems and burdens, their mercies and 
gentle providences, are our first thought, 
and should rightly be. Our homes should 
be shelters where life’s highest inspirations 
are given, a school where true training 
is imparted, that will develop men and
women; filling them with self-knowledge, 
reverence and self-control. 
				MRS. CANDLAND.


Nov. 9 was Founder’s Day at Mount
Holyoke College. The address was
given by President Slocum of Colorado Col-
lege, and the corner-stone of the new li-
brary was laid on that day.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
		RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society,
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
cluded in stakes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare complete annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of February, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
				General Secretary.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.


A teacher in a day school said to one of 
her pupils, “Now, Tommy, spell needle!”
Tommy: “N-e-i-d le. needle.” Teacher:
“That’s wrong! There’s no ‘i’ in needle.”
Tommy: Well, it isn’t a good needle
then!”


Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney was the guest of
honor at the annual reception of the New
England Women’s Club on Oct. 31, and
there was a large attendance of members
and guests. Mrs. Howe and Mrs. Cheney
were presented with bouquets of violets
tied with long purple ribbons. There was
no speaking, but plenty of fine music, and
sprays of pink roses adorned the busts of
Samuel E Sewall, Theodore Parker and
Michael Angelo. When Mrs. Howe, Mrs.
Cheney, and Mrs. Judith W. Smith got
their heads together for a few minutes, one
member whispered to another, “Where,
outside of the New Jerusalem, could you
see another group like that?”


Woman’s Exponent.

The ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

