Vol. 33					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1904.						No. 5.


CONTENTS.
The Flag and the Child,—Augusta Joyce
	Crocheron...........................................	33
Tenement Life in New York,—Edith Ivins
	Lamoreaux..........................................	33
To the Women of the United States of Amer-
	ica.......................................................	34
Peace Proposals..........................................	34
Progress......................................................	35
Character............................Rose B Musser	35
Utah Woman’s Press Club...................M F.	35
An Old Letter..............Sarah M. Cleveland	37
Mother’s Work............................................	37
Parting....................................Mark Brown	37
Sketch of Sister Durrant.............................	37
Sketch of Ruth Hayward............................	38
R. S. Reports: Bear Lake Stake—L. Fuller	38
			Juab Stake.........S. Chappel	38
			Emery Stake.....Maria Allen	38
			Weber Stake....C. E. Driver	38
			Alpine Stake.E. Featherstone	39
Edwin D. Mead’s Address.Woman’s Journal	40
EDITORIAL:—Relief Society Notice.......	36
			Peace Demonstration..........	36
			Editorial Notes....................	36


THE FLAG AND THE CHILD.

Rich at last from his mountain mines,
He said: “We will travel far,
My dearest ones shall see and know
What the world and its splendors are.”
So they went by rail and they went by steam
To the Old World far away,
But the little one sighed wearily
And paler grew day by day.

“Dearest, what is it? You’ve but to speak 
And all that you wish may claim?”
Then the dark eyes drooped and in heartsick
	tones.
The little one’s answer came.
“I know ’tis beautiful, and ’tis wrong
That I cannot happy be;
But I want to go back, our mountain home
Is better than all to me.”

So they bade farewell to splendors all, 
But train and ship seemed slow.
To the little one who gazed far ahead
For the scenes that she loved so
One day on deck some one unfurled 
Our country’s flag, and the child—
Leaped and caught it in fond embrace,  
With laughter and sobbings wild.

Hushed for a moment by the sight,
Each foreigner bowed his head;
Then one who was greatest there, stepped forth
And with reverence grave, he said:
“Great is that country, where its child
Has the soul of a patriot man!
Men of Valor! Salute with me,
The little American!”

Year after year, from her father’s mines 
The stream of gold will flow;
And through the years, the loyal child
To perfect womanhood grow.
And suitors will come from far and near 
Her beauty, and wealth to see;
But the Prince of Love who will win her heart,
An American will be.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Erda, August, 1904.


[Column 1]
TENEMENT LIFE IN NEW YORK.

EDITH IVINS LAMOREAUX.
	The saying that we do not appreciate our
blessings until deprived of them is no truer
anywhere than in regard to our appreciation
of our own dear homes in Utah. So many
of our young people married at home are
beginning to enjoy (?) tenement life and to
advocate it, especially in Salt Lake City.
God forbid that it should ever become so
popular as it seems necessary in New York

[Column 2]
City. To our sisters in the country who
read this, the question will come. What
is it any way? ’Tis for them I am writing.
Not an elaborate description of the homes
of New York, of which I as yet know but
little, but a comparison between our own
home here (and there are thousands just
like it) and those you are now enjoying,
humble indeed many of them, but for the
most part all your very own. While all
but about 5 percent of the people of Utah
own their homes there is only about 5 per
cent of the people here who own a home or
anything they can call their own except it
be their clothing and furniture. In conse-
quence the four millions of people are
crowded into flats one on top of the other,
some of the houses being ten stories high,
and some containing as many as fifty fami-
lies. But you say that does not include
children. Don’t it, though? Just get out
some night among the poorer districts or
even the middle classes, and the street will
be so full you can scarcely crowd your way
through without pushing some little tot
over. But I was to describe “our flat” and
the daily life of a missionary’s wife here.
	There are ten families of us in a house of
four stories. We live on the third floor.
All use the same front hall and stairway.
No matter how much contagion there might
be in the house, a[-]l have got to pass through
this hall to reach their flat. All use the same
clothes lines, which are up on the house
roof. If your clothes are left out all night
there may be some sheets, etc., missing
next day, but that isn’t much. You would
not think of going to one of your neigh-
bors and comparing sheets, etc. as they
were all hanging in rows together any-
how, and how should they remember which
is theirs at all times.
	You meet all classes here.  While some
are fine people and as honorable as any of
our neighbors at home, some are foreigners,
Italian and Spaniards, etc., and the less you
have to do with them the better. To know
one’s next door neighbor, or even step into
her home is a rarity.
	Of course they don’t like us. Why
should they? Jesus said “Ye are not of the
world else the world would love you,” and
we do not wish them to, except it be for
our virtues. While we try to be quiet and
peaceable, courteous and kind to all, yet
the fact that a “Mormon” family is in the
house is enough to keep all the sisters busy
watching us. They need only the sligh[-]est
provocation too for an excuse to have us if
possible removed. We have as yet had no
serious trouble, but this rule prevails gen-
erally among our people all over the city.
	We have five rooms, hall and bath, the
latter being modern and very fine. All the
rooms are on one floor, and all except the
kitchen are light and very pleasant, situated
as we are on a corner The kitchen though
has only one window, which opens out in-
to a shaft running from the ground to roof,
through which everyone’s kitchen odors es-
cape, judging from the fumes which some-
times reach us. This is our back yarn, all
we have and our only use of it is to some-
times hang out a few clothes to keep from

[Column 3]
going to the roof, or to keep milk and but-
ter cool on the window sill. The kitchen
contains a small stove, a nice cupboard, two
stationary stone wash tubs, the lids of
which serve as tables, and a small sink over
the water taps, just large enough for a
small dish pan. There is no pantry nor
store-room, so we can only buy enough
food to last for a day or so, which can be
tucked away in the cupboard or under the
wash tubs.
	Our door bell and whistle are in the
kitchen. The latter is used by the janitor
(who lives with his family in the basement),
to call us to the dumb waiter or warn us to
flee in case of fire.
	The dumb waiter is a small cupboard
which is run up and down a shaft by means
of pulleys, for the purpose of carrying all
our garbage down, and our coal, ice, m[-]lk,
etc., up. Each evening at 6 o’clock the
whistle blows and we must hurry with our
garbage-bucket, old paper, ashes and any-
thing else we do not wish to keep to the
waiter. It is all emptied down cellar and
the bucket sent back “while you wait.” If
you don’t wait but think to get your bucket
later you may find only an old tin can, as
“first come first served” applies here as
well as elsewhere.
	When callers come they ring your bell
by pressing a button under your mail box
in the vestibule, and they cannot come up
stairs till you in return press a button on
the kitchen wall, which unlocks the front
halldoor. What a bother I hear some
hurried house wife say. Yes, and very ag-
gravating too when you discover often af-
ter your several trips to the kitchen that it
is only some old peddler, a beggar or the
small bo[-] of the street who delights in teas-
ing—or the “Mormon” missionary—for
that’s the way they gain admission too
when out tracting.
	Our flat is supposed to be steam heated,
having two small radiators for the whole
house. But we haven’t felt any heat yet.
There are no chimneys in any room but the
kitchen, hence we cannot furnish our own
“hot blast;” but in lieu whereof we have
a small coal oil stove which, until our steam
heat comes, we are firced to carry from
room to room, as we desire to be comfort-
able in our different daily routine. It is to
me indeed laughable.
	Still, some one says it is nice to have
your house steam heated (when it does come)
with no dirt nor work on your part, to have
plenty of boiling water to u[-]e day or night,
to cook on a gas stove without the dirt and
ashes so common to the lot of women; and
to have your work all on one floor.
	Yes, ’tis true. But for myself I prefer
more work if necessary, in a house of my
own with pleasant surroundings, a yard for
children to play in, a porch or lawn on
which to spend a pleasant afternoon, a tiny
spot for early garden stuff, and above all a
home by one’s self where we can train our
children in the paths of purity and truth
without being forced to come in contact
with the worst class at times if we allow
them any outside liberties at all. Oh,
there are so many things at home, so pleas-


ant, that these poor souls here, many of
them never yet dreamed of Then let us,
sisters, try to appreciate them. Let us as
mothers see to it that never through our
extravagance or influence shall our homes
be mortgaged, but through our economy
and frugality keep expenses down, that
fathers may never have that excuse, and if
in the growing desire among some to specu-
late upon their property husbands are
tempted to sell, let us all use our subtle
power and it is mighty, against it, that we
may ever have an inheritance in Zion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	TO THE WOMEN OF THE UNITED
		STATES OF AMERICA.
	Some weeks ago I received a letter ask-
ing that I should add mv signature to many
others which were affixed to a protest against
the admission of any more states into the
Union under constitutions providing for the
disfranchisement of women. I gladly ac-
ceded to the request, but I confess that I 
did not at the time quite understand the
enormity of the offence, which, from my
point of view, is being committed against
American womanhood. Had I, I should
have wished to write my name in capitals,
and long ago should have appealed to my
countrywomen to join me in an expression
of resentment against the bill proposing the
admission of four of our territories as two
new states, which I understand is now in
the hands of the Committee on Territories
No objection have I to having the Indian
Territory and Oklahoma, New Mexico and
Arizona pass from the tutelage of territor-
ial government into the joy and dignity of
sovereign statehood, but I do protest against
having any bill looking to this transition in-
dicate to the incipient states that they may
be admitted to the Union under constitu-
tions which disfranchise their women. I
consider the terms of this bill particularly
obnoxious. It seems that the following
occurs twice, appearing first in paragraph
five, section three, of the Bill, and repeated
in paragraph five of section twenty-one.
The part of the Bill which excites my re-
sentment is as follows:
	“The said state shall never enact any
law restricting or abridging the right of
suffrage on account of race, color or pre-
vious condition of servitude, or on aecount
of any other conditions or qualifications,
save and except on account of illiteracy,
minority, sex, conviction of felony, mental
condition or residence, provided, however,
that any such restrictions shall be uniform
and applicable alike to all citizens.” 
	The presentation of a Bill including this
obnoxious paragraph in Congress apparent-
ly gives to the disfranchisement of women
not only a passive acceptance on the part of
the general government, but it seems like
an expression of its active desire. Note
the position of the word “sex,” Placed
between the phrases “minority” and con-
viction of felony,” it is made to seem either
a condition of partial development or of
absolute disgrace. Moreover, this condi-
tion, being born to become a woman, how-
ever it may have been regarded by undevel-
oped races in former times, has always
been and now is considered by developed
peoples an election to particular sacredness
and dignity. The passage of such a Bill
cannot but have a degrading social influ-
ence. It is equivalent to a declaration by
the general government that it is at best an

[Column 2]
unfortunate or evil thing to be born a
woman.
	The general government on all occa-
sions declares what all good patriots are
bound to believe, that citizenship in the
Republic is a lofty privilege; that in a Re-
public the sign of sovereignty, its instru-
ment and weapon is the ballot.
	With the exception of women all classes
which by this Bill are excluded from the
exercise of the ballot, suffer from a limita-
tion which in its very nature is or may be
temporary. Minors have only to wait for
their jubilee birthday; illiterates have to
exert themselves only sufficiently to learn to
read; felons may by the expiration of the
term of years involved in the sentence be
restored to society, or with or without re-
pentance may receive gubernatorial pardon
and gain therewith the elective franchise.
Even lunatics may be restored to sanity, or
without such restoration, to freedom.
	It is sufficiently humiliating to have as-
piring territories knock for entrance into
the sisterhood of states bearing a proposed
constitution which looks to the disfranchise-
ment of half of their adult popu[-]ation; but
to have the United States say to an aspir-
ing territory that the constitution to be ac-
ceptable must brand womanhood with in-
dignity is a still more grievous thing to
bear. This condition is harder to bear now
that in four states of the Union women do
possess the power of acknowledged citizen-
ship, than it was when women throughout
the country were equally helpless and dis-
franchised. It is most improbable that
members of Congress from Wyoming, Utah,
Idaho and Colorado will vote in favor of
this section of the proposed Bill; for where
women already enjoy the right of suffrage
men pay to their opinions the real homage
which theoretically is always given to
the “eternal feminine.”
	I call the particular attention of the
women of the country to the fact that on
the 8th day of June, at a business session of
the Third Quinquennial of the International
Council, the representatives of nineteen
National Councils, including an individual
membership of several millions of women
all voted, without one dissenting voice that
thenceforth the International Council
should stand everywhere committed to the
policy included in the following declara-
tion, that,
	“Inasmuch as all governments equally
effect the men and women living under
them, therefore, be it resolved that under
all governments, whether nominally Repub-
lican or Monarchical whatever political
rights or privileges are accorded to men
ought on corresponding conditions to be ac-
corded to women.”
	The debate upon this subject occupied
three hours. The arguments, for the most 
part, concerned only the form under which
this large conviction of the Council should
be expressed. There was material agree-
ment among the women of all countries
embraced within the Council concerning
the propriety of the essential proposition.
In the end it was in the form cited above,
the broadest in which it was presented,
that the proposition was unanimously voted.
While it is quite true that by the constitu-
tion of the Council every affiliated Council
is left free and may abstain from active
support of Council propaganda, it is also to
be observed that great moral support is
given to propaganda by the vote of so rep-
resentative a body as the Executive of the
International Council of Women.

[Column 3]
	There sat in its Executive sessions the
actual representatives of sixteen of the na-
tions composing it, representing a great di-
versity not only of nationalities, but even
of races, and a still larger diversity of
tongues, faiths and governments; but all
were agreed that the hour had struck for
the abolition of every distinc[-]ion in the poli-
tical rights and privileges of men and wom-
en under whatever form of government
they may exist, which are based upon sex.
	I therefore appeal in the name of the In-
ternational Council of Women to every one
of my countrywomen living in whatever
state or territory, who through membership
in any organization affiliated with the Na-
tional Council of our country, is thereby
connected with the International Council,
to recognize the strength which the vote
cited gives to her individual opinion; and in
this strength I appeal to her in turn to
write to the Senator representing her state
in the United States, protest against the pas-
sage of the sections above cited in the Bill
under which it proposed to add two more to
the galaxy of the states. Thus will the
action taken by a world body in the capital
city of a military empire become effective
as an agency in giving enlarged liberty to
women in a Republic.
	Begging every woman under whose eye
this letter may fall to send at once to Sen-
ator Beveridge for a copy of the Bill above
referred to, and to follow this up by a close
study of the Bill and by an individual pro-
test against the sections indicated, I am,
with abiding faith in the principles of Dem-
ocracy, and with an intense desire to aid in
developing our nominal Democracy into
a genuine Republic, with great esteem for
my countrywomen,
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
Honorary President of the International
Council of Women.
	Indianapolis, Ind., November 8th, 1904.


PEACE PROPOSALS.
	Resolutions passed by the Interparlia-
mentary Union at the session of that con-
gress in St. Louis, September, 1904, and
adopted unanimously:
	"Whereas, enlightened public opinion
and the spirit of modern civilization alike
demand that controversies between nations
be settled in the same manner as disputes
between individuals are settled, that is, by
the judgment of courts in accordance with
recognized principles of law.
	“This conference requests that the sever-
al governments send delegates to an inter-
national conference to be convened at a
time and place to be agreed on by them,
for the consideration of the following ques-
tions:
	“1. Questions for the consideration of
which the conference at The Hague ex-
pressed the wish that a future conference
be called.
	“2. The negotiation of arbitration trea-
ties between the nations represented at the
conference to be convened.
	“3 The advisability of creating a con-
gress of nations to convene periodically for
the discussion of international questions.
	And respectfully and cordially requests
the President of the United States to invite
all the nations to send representatives to
such a conference.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PROGRESS.
When the foundations of the earth were laid.
	And darkness hover’d o’er the space.
This good “world beautiful” so perfect made,
	And sun and stars had found their place,
Then darkness fled before the coming day—
	When God proclaimed “Let there be light!”
For His Omnipotence, and pow’r held sway
	And He divided day and night.
Fair morning in her maiden beauty rose
	All blushes like a virgin bride;
The world awaken’d from the night’s repose
	By Her sweet presence beautified
’Twas then the morning stars together sung,
	And angels minister’d, on earth;
All nature’s voices in glad chorus rung,
	Rejoicing in the world’s new birth—
For m[-]n was born, and unto him was given 
	Dominion over living things,
And woman, fresh from out the courts of heav’n,
	A benediction with her brings—
The dawn of progress in a new-born race,
	The growth of beings multiplied.
And down the ages filling time and place
	True knowledge life has glorified.

There have been wonders in the long ago.
	Empires have flourish’d in their day.
Their thrones, and kingdoms, their great works
		laid low,
	Their progress crush’d and pass’d away
We boast of great achievements in our time,
	Of ingenuity and wondrous skill.
Talk of the sciences in flights sublime,
	Controling forces at their will
Men have won laurels in the halls of fame,
	Have solv’d great problems, to be sure.
But can they justly lasting merit claim
	For progress made that will endure?
And who can say what progress most has done
	To help mankind to higher things?
What vict’ry have we gain’d, what triumph won,
	With all that art and science brings?
Wise men of old, e’en prophets in their time
	Have dealt with life’s great mysteries;
And poets sung in rhythmic strains sublime
	Thro’ the long line of centuries.

In the meridian of time the Savior came,
	“The Golden Rule” to man He taught
And by His teaching, and thro’ Jesus name
	The world receiv’d new light, new thought.
He who has given to the world his best,
	Who has some blessed message brought,
And ministers to human souls distress’d
	Has far the greater progress wrought.
We hail the day, when knowledge shall Increase,
	And cover earth from sea to sea;
When all mankind shall dwell in perfect peace.
	And light and truth obtain the vict’ry.
					EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
CHARACTER,
BY ROSE B. MUSSER.
	Lecture given at Wasatch Stake Relief
Society conference, held in Heber City,
June, 1904.
	“There is a structure which everybody,
both young and old, is building. It is
called character, and every act of life is a
stone thereof, and every desire forms some
part.”
	Honesty, faithfulness, sincerity and pur-
ity are the mighty corner[-]tones of charac-
ter. They should be laid as soon as a child
begins to notice indeed even before it is
born.
	“Our minds are given us, but our char-
acters we make.” The-God given powers
necessary to produce a man of character are
not character, no more than the raindrop
is the fountain. The ocean beach is com-
posed of numberless grains of sand, so
character is formed by just so many little
thoughts and acts.
	Character and reput[-]tion are not the
same. Character is the apple, reputation
the colored peel. Reputation may find its
reward among groveling humanity, while
character awaits its vindication, if necessary,
in eternity. Reputation is what men think
you are, Character is what you are. The
persecuting Jews were high in reputation

[Column 2]
but wholly deficient in character. Jesus
sustained a good character but bore a bad
reputation.
	Parents are responsible, to a large extent,
for the condition of their children’s charac-
ters, being as they are living examples un-
to them. Viewing it in this light, how
necessary that we be strictly honest, pure
and sincere. God gives us these sweet
little innocents, and expects us to be strong
examp es unto them. This ca[-]not be if
our thoughts are not p[---]. Parents some-
times talk about their friends or neighbors
in a fault-finding spirit before their chil-
dren, or they will tell little “fibs” (as lies
are sometimes called). This is wrong. It
tends to weaken character. Children are
prone to imitate their parents. Their
mind are delicate and ex[-]eedingly impres-
sionable. Rather than cultivate a fault
finding disposition we should look for the
good in everything—in everybody, because
there is some good everywhere. We should
teach the little ones by example and pre-
cept to look upon the bright side of life;
they soon enough learn the bitterness there-
of; and if, while they are young, the seeds
of good, firm characters are planted, the
fruits thereof, in old age, will be glorious.
	If, then, we be careful to build with pure,
upright deeds, the structure will be a per-
fect one, in which the spirit of the Lord
will delight to dwell; but as “one leak will
sink a ship or one flaw will break a chain,”
so one d[--]honorabie or unwomanly act will
forever leave its impress upon the charac-
ter. A blow to character in youth or oid
age cau never be wholly effaced. God may
forgive a sin, but the character never for-
gets it.
	Faithfulness is an important stone to the
structure; faithfulness to a duty, to a
friend. Joseph, though a slave in Egypt,
did not forget this truth. Refusing to be
tempted by the wicked wife of Potiphar, he
chose the dungeon rather than dishonor—
he could not betray a sacred trust, guided,
doubtless, by the thought impressed upon
him in youth, that “Men rise higher as
their task is high,” hence he “cho[-]e to
walk high with the sublime dread, rather
than crawl to safety,”
	Solomon says: “Train up a child in the
way it sh uld go, and when he is old he
will not depart from it.”
	A tree may be ever so crooked and yet be
made to go straight if properly cultivated
when young and tender—an old tree can-
not be turned.
	A young mind may be guided and char-
acter developed, while an aged one may not
be influenced.
	Helaman’s army of two thousand young
men defeated in battle a much larger army
of the Lamanites without the loss of a sin-
gle life to them. When, asked how it was
done, the reply was: “Our mothers taught
us while young to pray, and if we did not
doubt, the Lord would deliver us.”
	When his apostles would look for the se-
cret of perfection, Jesus gave them the ex-
ample of a child—a standard of future great-
ness; hence the object of a parent should
be to keep a child—a child, even after it
reaches manhood or womanhood—a child
in all that goes to make perfect character.
	A wealthy merchant at an advanced age
was on his death bed. His mother died
when he was eight years of age. Half con-
scious he started in bed and said: “I
thought I hea[-]d the voice of my angel
mother.” He spent hours telling of her
personal graces, lovely smiles and gentle ac-

[Column 3]
tions. So riveted were they upon his young
mind before her death, that a lifetime of
business turmoil, excitement and dissipa-
tion could not blot the childish memory
out.
	Hence youth is the springtime of charac-
ter, and the seeds sown then will put forth
fruits for good or evil.
	Mothers, teach daughters the secrets aud
sacredness of maternity. No girl should
be ignorant of the emotions and changes
peculiar to girlhood. She should be taught
to keep the fountain of life pure. Her pur-
ity and modesty should be to her what the
power of the spirit was to Nephi—a con-
suming fire to those who would stain her
innocent life; and boys should be likewise.
But the lesson is for youh. Fail at this
time, and the parents become, in a measure,
responsible for the later recklessness and
carelessness of the child.
	“Honest courage,” said a great writer,
“is of greater worth than any amount of
grace; purity is better than elegance, and
cleanliness of body, mind and heart than
any amount of fine art.
	W[-]ile the cultivation of the graces and
fine arts are not to be neglected, it should
never be forgotten that there is something
far higher and [---]ler to be aimed at, great-
er than pleasure, greater than art, greater
than wealth, greater than power, greater
than intellect, greater than genius—and
that is, purity aud excellence of character.
	Wit[-]out a solid, sterling basis of indi-
vidual goodness, all the grace, elegance and
art in the world would fail to save or elevate
a people.
	Seek, then for character, trusting in time
and justice to establish for you a perfect
reputation. Let your capital in life be
character—hew close to that conviction—
defend it with life, and your final crowning
will be marvelous and perfect.”


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
annual meeting at the home of Mrs. Maria
Francis on the 29th of October, 1904.
	After the reading and approval of the
minutes of the last meeting, officers were
elected for the next year, which resulted in
the appointment of Mrs. Maria Francis,
President; Miss Stella Neff, Vice-Presdent;
Mrs. Lilian Maeser, Second Vice-President;
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Secretary; Mrs.
Isabel M. W. Sears, Cor. Secretary; Mrs.
Hattie B. Harker, Treasurer.
	Many of the members were in fancy dress
and entertained the club with a few min-
utes talk relative to the characters they
represented. Those particularly interest-
ing were Helen of Troy by Mrs. Lilian
Maeser; Penelope, by Miss Stella Neff; the
Empress Eugenie, by Mary F. Kelly; a Pu-
ritan Mother, by Mrs. Maria Francis. Pres-
ident Lucy A. Clark, Postmistress. Miss
Olea Shipp’s rendering of Spring was
much appreciated, as also the rendition en-
titled “Orphan Annie,” by Miss Ellis Shipp
and Miss Youngberg. Dr. Ellis Shipp pre-
sented the retiring President, Mrs. L. A.
Clarke, with the Daughters of theRevolution
in two volumes, in the name of the club.
Regrets were expressed at the unavoidable
absence of Mrs. E. B. Wells, who has always
been the main support of the club. Re-
freshments were served, and there was a
unanimous expression of satisfaction and en-
joyment.						M F.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year $1.00 one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1904


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
c[-]uded in [-]takes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare compute annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of February, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
				General Secretary.


[Column 1]
PEACE DEMONSTRATION.
	A Peace meeting was held in Barratt
Hall, Salt Lake City, Wednesday, October
5, 1904, at 8 p. m. Advertising hau been
done through the papers and many personal
nvitations given. The chairmen and mem-
bers of the committee both of the N. W. R.
S. and Y. L. M I. A. were very busy for
sometime beforehand holding meetings and
making plans for this public meeting. It
was the week of the International Peace
Congress which was b[-]ing held in Boston,
Massachusetts.
	Personal letters were addressed to minis-
ters of various denominations asking them
to preach sermons or give addresses on
Peace and Arbitration on Sunday, October
2, or at some other conven[-]ent time. This
request met with general approval and
most of the ministers took up the subject,
thus the peace sentiment was pretty well
ventilated beforehand.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards of Peace com-
mittee from the N. W. R. S and Mrs.
Ruth M. Fox of Peace c[-]mmittee from Y.
L. M. I. A. with coworkers prtpared and
sent out circulars of instructions to the
Presidents and Superintendents of Associa-
tions in all the Stakes, counties, etc., and
set the ball rolling.
	Barratt Hall was appropriately decorated
with flowers and the peace colors and three
handsome peace flags as also the stars and
stripes adorned the large and commodious
platform, members of committee and speak-
ers wore peace colors in ribbon badges.

[Column 2]
	His Excellency Governor Heber M. Wells
presided at the meeting. The speakers and
other distinguished visitors with the com-
mittee occupied seats on the platform.
	Reverend W. H. Fish opened the meet-
ing with prayer and the famous quartette
Messrs, Spencer, Pyper, Whitney and
Patrick rendered gloriously, “A Flag with
out a Stain.” Mr. Walter Wallace in his
wondrous baritone voice sang “The Wand-
erer.” Governor Wells in his most inimitable
style made an opening address, expressing
his interest in the cause and his apprecia-
tion of the efforts being made to secure
settlements of difficulties between nations
by a court of Arbitration, and introduced
in a pleasing manner Major Richard W
Young grandson of the Hon Brigham
Young as the first speaker cf the evening,
saying that though he was a man of war
having been a cadet from West Point served
his country well in the Philipines, and so
forth yet he was nevertheless parodoxical
as it might seem emphatically in favor of
peace. Major Young’s address has been
published in full in the Deseret Evening
News. This fine address was a master-
ly effort throughout and enthusiastically
received and heartily applauded.
	A song by Miss Agatha Berkhoel was
beauti[-]ully rendered her voice reaching
very high notes clear and melodiously. At
the conclusion of Major Young’s address
Mrs. E. B Wells read the Peace Resolutions
and Gov. Wells called for the vote which
was unanimous.
	The audience was honored by the pre-
sence of the Hon C. V. Gerretsen of Am-
sterdam, Holland, who had been a delegate
from Holland to the Interparliamentary
Peace Congress in St. Louis held there in
September. The gentlemen made a most
unique address giving a history of the In-
terparliamentary Peace Union League, the
nature of its Congresses and what had been
done through the organization towards se-
curing certain measures for the cause.
	It will be remembered by our readers
that it was the delegation from this Con-
gress that presented to President Roosevelt
the Resolutions passed by them in St. Louis
and which were so favorably received by
the Chief Executive and almost immediately
acted upon.
	Mr. Gerretsen gave the audience an en-
tirely different version of the Interparlia-
mentary Union to what had been previously
thought, the manner of taking up these inter-
national differences, and gave us new light
on the subject.
	Mrs. C. F. Wilcox read in a very effect-
ive manner Rudgard Kipling’s Recess-
ional” poem.
	The Reverend Mr. Fish who occupies the
pulpit in the Unitarian Church was the
last speaker of the evening and in a very
eloquent address gave many astonishing
facts, most effectively embellishing his par-
agraphs with bri[-]liant oratory; though the
hour was growing late yet the audience
listened with rapt attention to every word,
as he told them of his own knowledge of
the ravages of war in countries he had
visited
	The meeting adjourned sine die. The
ladies of the committee feel greatly encour-
aged in the work and honored by these dis-
tinguished gentleman so graciously accept-
ing invitations to speak at this Woman’s
Peace meeting, also for the response made
to the request sent out for meetings to be
held throughout Utah and adjoining states

[Column 3]
and territories. It is very evident that the
peace sentiment is spreading and many
people are seeing the advantages of settling
grave questions affecting peoples and nations
by means of a court of arbitration, such as
is now being considered by some of the
ablest men of affairs in the civilized world.
	Meanwhile women in an organized capa-
city are bringing to bear their utmost in-
fluence in favor of this higher ideal of true
civilization, instead of encouraging war and
bloodshed, and assuredly with the combin-
ed influence of the best elements of society
waging a moral and spiritual warfare
against taking up arms, and fighting for
commercial interests, or “right of way”
that can be better obtained by pacific
measures there will soon be a cleaner and
purer and more loving methed of meeting
one’s country’s foes than shooting on sight
and showing no mercy.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We hope our readers will excuse our not
publishing in this issue of the paper the min-
utes of the General Relief Society Confer-
ence held in October last, but we will cer-
tainly include it in the December number.
	The meeting of the Daughters of the Pi-
oneers was held on October 24th, in the
Bee Hive house, the president, Sister Alice
Merrill Horne, presiding. Hymn “Guide
us. O thou Great Jehovah,” was sung.
“Wanderings in the Wilderness,” by Leo-
nora Taylor Harrington, brought vivid pic-
tures before the mind. “Reminiscences of
Nauvoo,” by Sister Christiana D. Pyper,
who when a little girl knew Joseph Smith
the Prophet. “Reminiscences from Nauvoo
to Winter Quarters,” by Rachel E. Woolley
Simmons, was a very well written and en-
tertaing paper, giving the early life in the
Church of Bishop Edwin D. and Mary
Woolley, their association with the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and their travels westward.
	A handsome book suitable for a center
table has just been issued from the press,
very suitable and just in time for the Christ-
mas season. The author is very well
known to our readers and to all Latter-day
Saints, through her numerous poems and
other writings for more than thirty years.
L. L. Gr[-]ene Richards has a happy faculty
of writing children’s short stories and
verses. The book has a children’s depart-
ment. The feature of the book most like-
ly to catch the eye of the Latter day Saint
is the Book of Mormon poems. It is a new
depaiture and opens up an untrodden field
for the pen of the poet. The title of the
book is in itself suggestive, “Branches
That Hang Over the Wall,” and the artis-
tic design for the cover by her son who
lately returned from Paris, very appropri-
ately illustrates the subject. Price, $1.50.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution was held on
Monday, October 17, 1904, at the residence
of Judge and Mrs. W. H. King, Military
Ave, in this city. The parlors were beau-
tifully decorated with autumn flowers, and
the club colors with the Stars and Stripes.
The day was a stormy one but the meeting
was fairly well attended, and Mrs. King
makes a charming hostess. Regent Mrs
Phebe Young Beatie presided, and after
opening prayer, reading of minutes and mis-
cellaneous business, Mrs. Mary A. H. Can-


non gave the paper of the day; subject,
Mrs. John Quincy Adams, many interest-
ing facts in the life of this brilliant, self-
sacrificing wife and mother were brought
out clearly and given in graphic style.
Mrs. Emily H. Cannon gave an interesting
story, and as Mrs. Carol Y. Cannon was not
prepared with a song, Mrs. Lucy W. Smith,
by special request, gave some incidents of
her recent delightful trip East and to the
Fair at St. Louis. After adjournment re-
freshments were served in dainty style, and
the guests enjoyed an hour’s chat with each
other and the hostess in her delightful
home.
	The November meeting of the Daugh-
ters of Utah Pioneers was held on Wednes-
day, November 9, 1904, in the elegant par-
lors of the Bee Hive House, the President,
Mrs. Alice M. Horne, present, although
Counselor, Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, presided.
After the exercises of singing and prayer
Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde read the hymn,
“O, say what is truth,” and Mrs. Lucy
Pratt Russell read her paper on Brother
and Sister Snively of Pennsylvania, her
grandparents, how they received the Gos-
pel, and gathered with the Saints in Nau-
voo; the marriage of their daughters Han-
nahette to Apostle Parley P. Pratt, and
Susan to President Brigham Young; she
emphasized their devotion to the Gospel
and the principles of celestial marriage.
Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne read the paper
prepared by Mrs. Julina L. Smith on Winter
Quarters, Mrs. Smith being unavoidably ab-
sent on account of sickness in the family.
The paper was full of interest as it con-
tained so many practical facts in regard to
conditions existing at that time of scarcity
and trial, and brought back to the pioneer
women present many pathetic and thrilling
scenes through which the Saints passed
during that critical period. Many com-
ments were made after the reading, the one
however ot special value was by Mrs.
Elizabeth Nebeker, a pioneer of 1847. A
poem “Reminiscenses,” written for the
Daughters of the Pioneers was read by the
author, Mrs. E. B. Wells. As the other
numbers could not be given a little time
was taken by Mrs Nebeker giving some of
her girlhood experiences, her first meeting
with the Prophet Joseph Smith in the State
of Pennsylvania when she was nine years
old, and subsequent events.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN OLD LETTER.
TO THE PRESIDENCY, AND LADIES OF THE
[FEMALE] RELIEF SOCIETY OF NAUVOO.
	Beloved sisters and friends—As I shall
necessarily be absent from your pleasant
society, for a season, my husband not hav-
ing succeeded in business in Nauvoo as he
anticipated, I could not take my leave
without soliciting your kind wishes and
prayers for the time being, that we find it
necessary to locate ourselves elsewhere,
until a more favorable door is opened, for
our residence with the church.
	I wish also to acknowledge my grateful
sense, of the great kindness, and good feel-
ings, which has been manifested toward
me, during my visit amongst you; and in
return you have my sincere prayers, that
the best of heaven’s blessings may rest
upon you: and may the cause of humanity,
benevolence, and mercy, flourish in your
midst, under the benign auspices of an ap-


proving heaven, and the smiles of the Holy
one of Israel. And may the heart of the
widow, the fatherless, the poor, and the
destitute, for whose benefit the society was
organized, be made to rejoice through the
means of your benevolent exertions. And
feel assured, that wnile this is made the
grand rallying point, for the active energies
of your minds, no power, however desirous
it may be to vilify, and call in question your
good name, will be able to tarnish the lustre
of your good deeds, or pluck from your
standard, the laurels which will be woven
by the hand of gratitude as a shining
trophy to your name, to all eternity.
	With respect and affection, I am yours
in the bonds of the gospel.
April, 1843.
SARAH M. CLEVELAND.


MOTHERS' WORK.
BENSON STAKE.
Lecture 1.
	The Inmates of the Home.
	a. Family Organization. b. The father:
his authority position and rights. c. The
mother: her position and rights. d. The
children: their position and rights.
Lecture 2.
	a. Obedience and its effects. b. Dis-
obedience and its effects.
Lecture 3.
	a. Prayer. Its power and efficacy. b.
Appropriate prayers.
Lecture 4.
	a. Forgiveness: Charity for each others’
imperfections, b. Faults; by good or evil
intent.
Lecture 5.
	a. Influence of the passions with regard
to health and hnppiness. b. Love, hate,
envy.
Lecture 6.
	a. Self-denial, self-control. b. Faith,
Hope. c. Grief, despair. d. Cheerfulness
and Kindness.
	REBECCA L. RAWLINS, Prest., AROETTA
POND, MAUD ROSKELLY, Counselors.
	HANNAH LARSON, MAGGIE MERRILL,
SARAH A. HYER, MARIA SWINEYARD,
Committee.
	RHODA M. HENDRICKS, Secretary.


PARTING.
Oh, the bitter pangs of parting,
Come upon us unaware
Every bud or flower that blossoms,
The taste of death must sometime share.

Yet such times do bring forth sorrow.
Every hea[-]t sends forth a sigh:
For God has called fr[-]m us a loved one,
The reason now we know not why.

One just reached the flower of manhood,
Stricken down while yet in youth.
Called to join our friends departed,
Called while in the path of truth.

Gone front those who loved him dearly;
Every soul breathed up a prayer,
Yet he has gone fro[-] those he cherished;
Ah! can reason cease to stare?


Was there not amid the millions
One whose life was not so dear?
Could hey not have found another,
Left this well-belov’d one here?

Ah! frail men so often err
In their judgments premature;
Every act contains a blessing,
Though at first it seems obscure.

Was there net for every mortal
Written death upon the scroll?
Death of body; not of spirit;
Ay! there is no death of soul.

Search the records and traditions,
Search the present and the past;
Science, logic, reason, wisdom,
Says this life is not the last.

Near God’s throne are lines of angels,
One would make their ranks complete;
So they came and took our brother,
There to live a life most sweet.

Is it safe to doubt the wisdom?
Can we always judge aright?
Be consoled, subm[-]t, don’t murmur,
Look above, and ask for light.

Life is but a fading shadow
Passing swiftly year by year;
Then we’ll meet the one departed
In that high and holy sphere.

Grieve no more, and let not sorrow
Mar the soul you have to save,
There will be a joyous meeting,
For there’s life beyond the grave.
MARK BROWN.


SKETCH OF SISTER DURRANT.
	Sketch and Resolutions of Respect to the
memory of Sister Jemima H. B Durrant,
who departed this life August 20, 1904, at
her home in American Fork, Utah. She
was born at Deans' Hanger, England,
August 2, 1836, embraced the gospel when
eleven years old, and emigrated to Utah in
1862. She has been a faithful member of
the church from that time until her death.
	Sister Durrant was an active member and
officer of the Relief Society from the time
it was organized in American Fork. She
was also a member of the choir, a teacher
in the Sabbath School, and was President
of the Young Ladies’ Association for more
than twenty years. In all these organiza-
tions she was faithful and efficient, always
at her post of duty, and was well loved and
respected by all.
	She was a woman of great faith and in-
tegrity to the gospel. Her testimony was
always bright; her faith was unwavering;
she was not ashamed to defend the princi-
ples of her religion Her life was worthy
of emulation for she was always active in
the service of the Lord.
	She was true to every principle of the
gospel, including that ot Celestial Marriage,
and though not blest with children of her
own, she was ever willing to take part in
the care of her husband’s family.
	She died, as she had lived, firm in the
faith, and with a sure hope of a glorious
resurrection.

		RESOLUTIONS.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we the officers of
the Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one, who
was in every respect worthy of our love and
esteem
	Resolved, that in her death we recognize the
loss of a tme Saint and a faithful worker, and ex-
press our hopes that though she has left us for a
short time, yet it is well with her. For she
has fought the good fight and has kept the faith,
and there is a crown of righteousness awaitimr her
in the Kingdom of God.


She’s gone, but to a rest so sweet
To all the faithful given,
O may we earn through earthly life,
The same sweet bliss in Heaven.

May her devoted life on earth
Of patience, hope and love,
Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
From Him who rules above.

	Resolved, that these resolutions be placed upon
the records ot the American Fork First Ward Re-
lief Society, and that they be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and a copy be given to the
bereaved family.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
ELIZABETH DURRANT,
ELIZABETH MCCARTY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SKETCH OF RUTH HAYWARD.
	We have met together upon this sad occasion to
show our love and reverence to [-]ur beloved sister
who has just responded to the call which sooner
or later must come to all of us, but while our
hearts are sad because of the long separation
which must follow her departure, we rejoice in the
thought of the glorious reception she will meet on
the other side, for verily she hath earned t[-]e wel-
come plaudit, “Well done thou good and faithful
servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.”
	Sister Ruth Hayward was born on the 1st day
of May, 1814, in Kent, England, and was there-
fore, ninety years, five months and thirteen days
old. she was married at the age of twenty-four to
William Hayward, in Woolwich, England and
proved a most tender and affectionate companion,
their devotion to each other being a beautiful
characteristic of their lives.
	She became converted to the Gospel and joined
the Church in 1849, and emigrated to Utah in
1853, arriving in Salt Lake City just fifty-one
years ago today. After residing t[-]ere for a period
of eleven years, she removed to Richfield where
she has since dwelt [-]ontinuously, save for two
years during the Indian troubles when she return-
ed to the north,
	Sister Hayward has been an indefatigable work-
er in the cause of thə Master, laboring in all of
the associations as an officer and member, with
great zeal and energy. Her whole heart went out
in tender sympathy to the sick and sorrowing, and
her faith was so great, miraculous healings have
often been the result.
	Her great charity for the erring has led them
back to a higher life, and a belief in the goodness
and love of a merciful Savior.
	The Latter-day Saints of Richfield can never
forget sister Hayward. One of the first pioneers,
she has been identified with every move made for
the advancement and upbuilding of the city and
community, and through all her labors the sublim-
ty of her faith has shone forth as a beacon-light
to her associates The strong testimonies she has
borne in the assemblies of the Saints has been an
inspiration to them, and we know that t[-]e closing
of the life is but the beginning of another which
shall be even more glorious and eternal.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, Our highly esteemed sister, at the
close of a long and beautiful life, has been called
to her heave[-]ly [-]ome, we, her sisters, who know
of her loving deeds, and appreciate her many
noble qualities, desire to express our sympathy for
her bereaved fumily, and to acknowledge her lab-
ors and ministrations of kindness as a member of
the Relief Society, and also as a friend and neigh-
bor in the best sense of the term.
	Therefore be it Resolved; That we do humbly
testify that faith, charity and humility were lead-
ing traits of her character, and that her steadfast
devotion to the work of God is an example which
we should all strive to emulate.
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sympathy
to the bereaved family and bid them look up, and
trust in God.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in
our minute book, an[-] also presen[-]ed to the family
and published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Dated this 16th day of October’ 1904.
AG[--]S B. THURBER,
Pres. Richfield Ward, R. S.
MINNIE A. NEBEKER,
HENRIETTA [-]RIGHT.
Counselors.
CELIA E. BE[-]N,
Secretary.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of Special Conference of Relief
Society of the Bear Lake Stake, held in
Montpelier meeting house on 10th and 11th
of September, 1904. President J. P Lindsay
presiding. The general meetings commenc-
ed at 2 p. m. of each day. Officers meeting
convened at 10 a. m., Sunday morning at
the residence of Bishop Clark. Sisters
Mary A. C. Lambert and Hattie B. Harker
were the visiting sisters of Salt Lake City.
	A very aged Sister by the name of Wil-
cox spoke to us ot our beloved Prophet
Joseph and quoted many things she had
heard him speak. Sister Richards of the
Fielding Academy spoke grandly on the
gospel, education, and on Mother’s Work.
	From our visiting Sisters, we received
valuable instruction, the principal topics be-
ing Mothers’ Work and gathering of grain
and taking good care of the same. President
William Rich and Bishop Clark spoke
words of encouragement to us. The Spirit
of the Lord was richly manifested during
Conference and we all had a very enjoyable
time.
	Your Sister in the Gospel of Peace,
						LOUISE TULLER,
							Cor. Secretary.

		JUAB STAKE
	The Relief Society of the Juab Stake of
Zion held its conference in Nephi, August
27, 1904, in the Tabernacle in that eity.
President L. Addie Cazier presiding. Sisters
Clarissa Smith Williams and Alice Merrill
Horne of the Gen ral Board were present
from Salt Lake City to attend the confer-
ence
	After the usual opening exercises of sing-
ing, prayer, roll call and minutes, Sister
Alice Merrill Horne addressed the sisters. 
Sister Horne told of her travels on the
continent of Europe, and spoke of the many
beautiful things she had seen; she felt it an
honor to attend the International Council
and Conference of Women and to represent 
the women of Zion. Referred to the great
responsibility resting upon the women of
today, and said many pleasing things con-
cerning her journeyings abroad. Sister
Horne concluded her speech with a strong
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel,
and urged all to be faithful and active to
work out their own salvation.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams,General Treas-
urer of the Relief Society, spoke of the
training of our children and the beautifying
of our homes—said our home should be the
dearest spot on earth, and told of ways and
means of making it so. Sister Williams
paid a glowing tribute to the Juab Stake
President for having a representative from
every ward in the stake at the conference,
also for having so many of the young peo-
ple in the society; she gave some valuable
instruction to officers and to all present.
	In the evening the officers gave a banquet
at the home of Mrs Alfred Lunt in honor
of the visiting sisters. Much credit is due
the sisters for the complete arrangements
which resulted in the pronounced success
of the evening’s entertainment 
				S. CHAPPEL, Sec’y.

		EMERY STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the
Emery stake was held on Friday, October
28, in Orangeville meeting house, President
[Column 2]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Mary A. Sorenson presiding. Her counse-
lors, Maria Guymon and Mary J. King, also
Secretary and Treasurer Maria Allen were
present. There was a good attendance
of the sisters from the several wards, nine
wards being represented.
	Excellent reports of the work being done
were given by the respective presidents or
representatives of the Price, Huntington,
Castledale, Orangeville, Ferron, Molen
and Emery branches.
	Visitors present were Sister Barton of
Salt Lake City, Patriarch Johnson of Hunt-
ington and Patriarch F. W. Young, Bishop
Robertson and Elder Frank Killian of
Orangeville.
	Short addresses were given by the Relief
Society stake officers, the visiting sister
and each of the brethren during the con-
ference on duties pertaining to Relief Soci-
ety work aud testimonies were borne to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Lectures were ably given by Ruth Mc-
Kee of Huntington, on “Home Influence,”
and by Maria Fitt, of Orangeville, on
“Parenthood.”
	The musical selections were excellent. A
vocal duet was rendered by Sisters Maggie
and Ranie Jewkes, of Orangeville, a quart-
ette by four sisters of the Huntington Re-
lief Society; and a vocal solo by Sister Kil-
lian of Orangeville, all of which were very
enjoyable. Two recitations were given,
one by Sister Davis, of Clawson, and one
by Sister Emma Elder, of Ferron both
were excellent.
	Stake Relief Society financial report was
read and unanimously accepted. Maria
Allen, of Castledale was presented and
unanimously sustained as secretary and
treasurer. The day was very pleasant and
the conference spiritual and interesting.
The sisters from other wards all enjoyed
the hospitality of the Orangeville sisters
during the noon recess.
MARIA ALLEN, Sec.
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the We-
ber Stake of Zion was held in Ogden, in the
Stake Relief Society Hall, on Thursday;
September 8, commencing at 10 a.m.,
President Jane S. Richards presiding. On
the stand were Counselor C. F. Middleton,
of the Stake Presidency and Bishop Robert
McQuarrie. Meeting opened with singing,
“Let us pray,” etc. Prayer was offered by
Elder Rudd. Singing, “Come, come, ye
Saints.” Minutes of morning session of
June conference read and approved.
	After reports were given by some of the
presidents of wards, President Jane S. Rich-
ards said she was very pleased ro see so
many present and to hear the reports by the
sisters that they enjoyad their labors in this
work, in visiting the sick and needy, and
that none were forgotten. She said, re-
member the instruction the Prophet Joseph
gave to the sisters about visiting the sick
he told them it was their duty, and let us
never tire of doing good to those in need.
	President C. F. Middleton said he always
enjoyed the Relief Society meetings and
the instructions given, they were good all
the time. Thought how good it was for
Sister Richards to see new faces at the
meetings, said if we are weary and tired
with our daily labors, if we would go to
meeting, we would rest our mind and our
body by the change of thought, and get
something to help us to renew our daily
lives. He prayed God to bless us. Amen.
	Counselor Hattie Brown said she was


very much interested in the instructions that
had been given this morning, felt we had a
good band of workers in the Relief Society,
said we had much to do to prepare for the
future; we should be ready, for we never
know when the call will come. She asked
for the Lord’s good spirit, and thought we
should feel whatever comes it is His will.
She desired to be worthy, and to do her
duty with the blessing of the Lord.
	A young girl from Preston spoke of a
wonderful manifestation four years ago of
the power of God, in her behalf. She had
expected to be operated upon, but was an-
ointed by Sister Zina Young. Sisters Jane
Richards and Emily Richards and Sister
Card: the next morning she was able to
rise and dress, according to the promise
conferred upon her by Sister Zina Young
through the Holy Spirit.
	Sister Shupe reported Eden Ward sisters
as doing their duty and all going on well.
Sister from Liberty said their ward was
small, they were few in numbers, seven to
nine was the largest attendance, but the
sisters were good and willing to do all in
their power for each other and the society.
	Sister Eliza Tracy of Huntsville said she
had sickness in her family and had not
been able to attend meetings, felt she was
the loser she always enjoyed the meetings
reported all were doing well in their society.
Sister Faulkner, Plain City, thought the
sisters were doing their duty and had the
good spirit with them. Sister Stewart, of
Warren, said they enjoyed their religion
and the spirit of the Lord. Sister Ayres,
Harrisville, made a good report—all well
and doing the best they could. Sister
Thomas of Lynn, said she always felt hap-
py when she came to meeting; reported all
well with the Society. Sister M.J. Maycock,
Pleasant View, said all were in good work-
ing order, trying to serve the Lord.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. with
singing ‘‘O my Father.” Benediction by
Elder Franklin S. Richards.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
At the close of the morning session all
were invited to partake of a banquet served
in the spacious dining hall below, the tables
were arranged in the form of the letter “T”
and would seat about one hundred and fifty
at a time. Stake Counselor C. F. Mid-
bleton asked the blessing, and the guests
were feasted to their heart’s content, the
tables were filled again and again. The good
sisters of Weber stake are to be congratu-
lated on this sumptuous repast, to which
all present at the conference were made wel-
come.

	Afternoon session—President Jane S.
Richards presiding. Meeting opened with
singing, “A poor wayfaring man of grief,”
etc. Prayer offered by Bishop Robert Mc-
Quarrie; singing, “Farewell all earthly
honors.”
	President Adeline Belnap of Hooper
reported her ward—they had some sickness,
but felt blest in having good sisters willing
to help with faith and works; bore a good
testimony of the Prophet Joseph, whom
she knew as a child, and until his martyr-
dom. President Frances Dance. West We-
ber. said they had some diligent workers,
and felt they had the blessing of the Lord
with them all the time Sister Hunter had
a band of sisters strong in the faith, to do
good, it mattered not where or when. Sister
Mary Casey, Slaterville, said they had sold

[Column 2]
their wheat and were buying new to store
up—reported all well.
	Secretary Sister Driver read the minutes
of the conference held June 10, which were
approved as read.
	Sister E. B. Wells said she was proud of
the work of the Relief Society, and of the
Weber Stake House, especially. It was
the only stake house built and owned by
the sisters She felt a good work had been
done by their president, Sister Jane S.
Richards, she knew her perseverance in
building the hall, felt it was a monument
to her; was delighted with the spirit of the
conference and with what had been accom-
plished through the determined efforts of
the sisters, who had been willing to give of
their time and means  It was certainly a
credit to the Relief Society everywhere that
there was one such place, and she hoped
there would yet be many more. Sister
Wells gave some historic data of the Soci-
ety and made other remarks, urged the
young sisters to visit the aged and sick and
comfort them, it was refreshing to see their
bright young faces; do some little thing, if
it is only to take them a flower; referred
to the visits she had made in Ogden with
Sister Eliza R Snow and Aunt Zina Young,
also our President Bathsheba W. Smith,
and how much she had enjoyed coming,
and how gratifying it was to have Sister
Jane S, Richards still actively carrying on
the work given her to do by appointment
of President Brigham Young.
	Sister Emily S. Richards always felt at
home in Ogden She had just returned
from a long trip to Germany and other
countries, had met many great women,
thought they were trying to do good and
help the world The places she had visited
and the scenery among which she had trav-
eled were more wonderful than she could
describe; had visited in our missions and
spoken to the sisters and tried to encourage
them in their labors; referred to the mis-
sionaries. what good they are doing in car-
rying the Gospel to the honest in heart.
	Elder Franklin S. Richards said he felt
himself adopted into the Society in Ogden,
for he had spent some of his happiest days
here. When he looked back to those times,
there was a warm place in his heart for
those he remembered, and was always glad
to be in these meetings, and among these
faithful ones. Said this was a selfish age,
and everybody was thinking how can I help
myself. But the noble women in the Relief
Society were only seeking to help somebody
else, and always in the line of their duty.
It was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and through the Spirit of the Lord,
that woman might be elevated and become
a true helpmate to man. He prayed the
Lord to bless all those associated in this
work, they had a warm place in his heart;
was glad to meet with old friends, brethren
and sisters.
	Sister Lee, Far West, reported a good
band of sisters living up to their duties, tak-
ing care of the sick, and felt well and en-
joyed the Spirit of the Lord.
Counselor Hattie Brown again bore her
testimony and spoke encouragingly to the
sisters of the work they had done.
Bishop McQuarrie felt he must be obed-
ient to President Richards, and had enjoyed
the remarks of the sisters, all of them, and
the visitors from Salt Lake. He counseled
the Saints to listen to the still, small voice,
and thus keep in the right path. Blessed
Sister Richards and all assembled.

[Column 3]
	Sister Martha Critchlow, the First ward
Ogden City, bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the work.
	Sister Moon, Mound Fort, reported—
made a good report of the work and bore
testimony.
	Elder Stone, an aged brother, who had
been blind many years, bore a strong tes-
timony; said he enjoyed these meetings.
Sister Stone also bore her testimony.
	Sister Scowcroft also spoke a few words of
appreciation of the blessings of the Gospel.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke very af-
fectionately to the sisters. Was sorry there
was not time for everyone to speak, but
there never seemed time enough. She loved
to hear from those who had been so diligent
and faithful in good works; felt to bless all,
whether they had spoken or not.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “O my Father.” Prayer by
President C. F Middleton.
	C. E. DRIVER, Secretary.

	ALPINE STAKE.
	The regular quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held at
Lehi, Friday, October 21, 1904, President
Rebecca Standring presiding
	Meeting opened at ten a. m. with singing.
Prayer by Brother William Southwick.
Singing, etc.
	President Standring made a few opening
remarks, after which seven of the presidents
reported their wards. The reports were
good in every respect, except the attend-
ance, which is sometimes rather slim. They
have a good spirit in their meetings, the
teachers are doing their duty, the poor are
helped and the sick visited. The sisters are
laying up wheat and helping to build meet-
ing houses and granaries and are united in
their work.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley ad-
dressed the meeting. Hoped the sisters
were not grpwing weary in well doing. In
looking at the abundant crops which the
Lord has sent to His people this year, had
we not ought to give thanks and gratitude
to His holy name by doing all we can for
the furtherance of His great work. Knew
that some of the sisters had more work al-
most than they could do, and had nearly
given up their spiritual meetings. Let us
not neglect our testimony meetings, but let
us lay our work aside as often as we can,
and attend our meetings, for our testimony
will never increase if we neglect to assem-
ble ourselves together in testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Martha Featherstone felt the re-
sponsibility of the calling that had been
placed upon her—to be a missionary in the
Relief Society of this stake of Zion. Had
passed many happy hours with the sisters
in their meetings in this house. Desired
to be associated always with the Latter-
day Saints. The Lord does acknowledge
His people, and the spiritual gifts will never
be taken away from them, for many have
had their prayers answered through these
gifts.
	Conference adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing. Benediction by Stake Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.

	Meeting opened at two o’clock with the
usual exercises.
	President Rebecca Standring prayed the
inspiration of the Holy Spirit might rest
upon those who speak this afternoon. We
do not realize the importance of the
meetings which are to instruct and build us


up. Spoke of our late General Conference
and the instructions given. We must not
neglect our testimony meetings for other
duties. Spoke of the Memorial Building
and urged the sisters to contribute a little
to this object. Spoke of the lack of inter-
est taken by the sisters in attending meet-
ings and bearing testimony. Those that
loved the Lord met often together and a
book of remembrance was kept. Five of
the ward presidents gave their reports.
	President James H. Clark was the next
speaker. Felt that these sisters had much
to be proud of and much to be thankful
for in these organizations. Referred to the
nickle fund spoken of by one of the sisters,
who stated that they had gathered $215 00
in one year by this means, had paid for an
organ and are gathering for a sacrament
service by donating a nickle per week,
showing how much can be done by small
means  We have no reason to wish for the
honors of men, but for the approbation of
God, was reminded of the article written by
President Joseph F. Smith on success.
Those who served God to the best of their
ability were the ones who would be suc-
cessful. Mothers who are laboring day by
day to raise their children may sometimes
feel discouraged, yet they would be success-
ful in the end. This is only one little span
of our existence, and if we do not gather
the harvest now, there will be another time
when we may obtain our reward. Those
who are raising families are doing a great
work and the sisters who travel around
should encourage it, and make them feel
they are blest of the Lord. Our people are
progressing materially in the world. Presi-
dent Woodruff prophecied that this people
would grow in power and strength and beat
the head and not at the foot. We are seek-
ing to purify our lives and make ourseives
acceptable to the Lord. Our mission is to
redeem men from their fallen condition and
teach them the pure principles, of the Gos-
pel. Spoke of the necessity of being kind
to the stranger in our midst, our mission is
to save them and not cast them off or con-
demn them. Seek to reclaim them and
turn them from the error of their ways.
The sisters can accomplish much in this
direction and bring peace to many hearts
and many homes. Be encouraged and
in due time the Lord will reward you for
what you sow.
	Sister Mary Ann Webb said she had
been fed with the Spirit of God and re-
ceived strength many times when she had
been discouraged and cast down and had
gone home refreshed, blest and rested.
	Bishop Fjield had been edified and blest
in attending this meeting. Spoke of a fam-
ily who had gone to Idaho after receiving a
vision of the country- Every duty has a
blessing behind it.
	Brother William Southwick felt to heart-
ily endorse the reports and remarks today.
Had learned many things in being acquaint-
ed with the workings of the Relief Society.
	Conference adjourned for three mouths.
Singing. Benediction, Sister Ellen D.
Clark.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[--] ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage, We aim to give you as
much as possible for vour money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No 1 Main Street.

I have always thought that all men
should be free; but if anv should be slaves,
it should be, first, those who desire it for
themselves, and, secondly, those who desire
it for others.—Abraham Lincoln.


[Column 1]
EDWIN D. MEAD’S ADDRESS.

	“It was in the old Tremont Theatre, on
the site where Tremont Temple now
stands, that Elihu Burritt, the inspirer of
the great Peace Congress half a century
ago, gave, in 1841, his first address upon
Universal Peace. It was in Tremont Tem-
ple that Charles Sumner, four years later,
gave his noble oration upon the ‘True
Grandeur of Nations.’ It was in Tremon
Temple that were held in 1899 the princi-
pal American meetings to promote inter-
est in The Hague Conference. The last
half century has emphasized with terrible
force the plea of Burritt for human broth-
erhood and the better organization of the
world. Never did events lay more terrible
emphasis than tot ay upon Sumner’s ar-
raignment of the wicked waste upon great
navies and armies of the resources which
should be applied to constructive purposes
and the education and welfare of the people,
and which so applied would quickly bring
an end to war forever.
	“We do not forget, be sure that none
remember so constantly, that our own re-
public, from which it was indeed your
right not to expect it, has yielded in these
days to the temptations to make herself
also a great naval power, and indulge the
hoary old ambitions of commanding re-
spect by force instead of by ideas and the
neighborly hand. We acknowledge the
justice of your warnings and reproacies.
We do not resent them; we thank you for
them  We thank you for reminding us,
as you have done with such eloquence and
feeling in the last two days, of the princi-
ple of the founders of our republic, and
the high duties of leadership in the path
of peace and order which the republic by
its history and position owes the world.
If in the great temptations of our opu-
lence and power some of us are in danger
of forgetfulness and faithlessness, may
the presence of so many of you here from
nations whose burdens and dangers are so
much greater than ours, and who need the
support of every influence of ours upon the
right side and not the wrong side, help to
call us back to our great national ideals and
our better selves. But remember this. We
no longer differ from you as we did in the
days of Sumner and Burritt and Channing.
Conditions everywhere become alike, and
one nation can no longer keep much ahead
of another. You have a right to ask us to
check the building of a great navy. We
must say to you that the real way to help
us is by such agitation at home as shall
check the increase of your own. We will
hope indeed that some great nation may
have the magnificent abandon to cast her
whole armies into the abyss and trust con-
fidently to the defence of that high act and
attitude; but, while we hope for that, let
us not build upon it, but work patiently to-
gether for disarmament.
	“While we thank you for your warnings,
we thank you also for your generous rec-
ognition of our good deeds and our good
purposes. Our President has recently

[Column 2]
proudly and properly claimed that The
Hague Court was impotent until the gov-
ernment of the United States made it a
reality. It is not a one his word; it is the
warm word also of Baron D'Estournelles
de Contant. Our President has assured
you that he shall take st[-]ps for the calling
of a second Hague Conference, to push on
the work which the first could not fully
achieve. I believe that he will do it. Of
this be sure—that the American people are
waking up. They will declare to-morrow
that all playing with fire of militarism in
this republic must forever cease; that if one
existing party does not stop it, its mandate
will go to another: and that our history
teaches us well how quickly sometimes
great new parties are born and become tri-
umphant.
	“Men tell us war will cease in this world
and out dreams come true ouly with the
millennium. I pity men who have such
poor notions of the millennium. The evils
which we fight are among the grossest and
most barbarous. They befit only the early
and low stages of civilization. Our effort
is but to clean the Augean stables. Horrors
and wickedness such as those going on at
this hour in Asia ought to be so far behind
as not even to be mentioned among civilized
men. Toleration of war in this twentieth
century after Christ is like setting up the
Ten Commandments on the walls of Chris-
tian churches, warning presumedly decent
Christians not to steal or kill or commit
adultery. Put the beatitudes on the walls
of your churches. It is only when we have
done forever with such savage and gross
forms of wrong as war that we shall be in
a position to make a first fair and decent
start for the millennium.
	“One hundred years ago Thomas Jeffer-
son was President of the United States.
Help us in this republic, in this centennial
time, to be true to his truth. The year is
the centennial of the death in Germany of
the great author of ‘Eternal Peace.’ It is
the centennial of the birth in England of
Richard Cobden. The apostolic succession
is never broken, and the apostles are multi-
plying to-day as never before. To-morrow
the vision of Kant and Cobden and Victor
Hugo and Sumner shall be those of every
thoughtful German and Englishman and
Frenchman and American.”
Woman's Journal.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
