Vol. 6, No. 8, p. 603; Vol 6, No. 3, p. 229
Juv. Inst., Vol 21, No. 2, p. 24.
	“Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shalt
not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the
laborer,”
	Mabel M. Hakes, Melissa Hunsaker,
Parmelia Horne, Annie E. Fuller, Nancy J.
Bailey, Celia A. Smith—Committee.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
			LESSON VII.
			Childhood,
	“Happiness is the only food on which the child
can be fed with profit.”
	(a) Physical Training. 1. Food—Kinds
—Why? 2. Clothing—Uniformity.—Why?
3. Exercise—Regularity in Work—Play.
4. Sleep—Amount—Regularity—Why? 5.
Bathing.
	(b) Mental Training. 1. Obedience—To
God, to authority of Church and State. 2.
Honesty—In thought and action. How
taught. 3. Cleanliness of thought, of ac-
tion in language. 4. Choice of Companions
—Who shall choose—parents or children.
Why?
	(c) Spiritual Training: 1. Reverence—
persons, places, things. 2. Responsibity of
parents, see Doc. and Cov. Sec. 68.
			LESSON VIII.
			Boyhood.
	(a) Character Building: 1. Teach him
his responsibility in forming his own char-
acter and his preparation for manhood and
that the body is the temple of the soul. 2.
Good Habits—Cleanliness of his person and
dress—Work—Amusements—Choice of oc-
cupation — Language. 3. Bad Habits—
How avoided?—Use of Intoxicants—Stimu-
lants—Idleness—Sec. 68—Doc. and Cov.—
Rivalry—Language.
	(b) Domestic Relations: 1. His Rights,
To expect parents confidence. To share
the best—To be equal with his sisters—To

[Column 2]
have a place for and a right to care for his
personal property—To expect a reasonable
amount of spending money—2. His Privi-
leges—To entertain his companions occas-
ionally —3. To express his ideas and con-
victions—To pursue his studies without in-
terruption.
			LESSON IX.
			Girlhood.
	“O, thou child of many prayers
	Life hath quicksands, life hath snares,
	Age and care come unawares.”
	(a) Character Building: [-]. Teach the
girl her divine origin. 2. Her capabilities
and her mission.
			LESSON X.
			Etiquette.
	As charity covers a multitude of sins before
God, so does politeness before men.”
	(a) Home: 1. Always remember the
small sweet courtesies—2. Don’t reserve
your kindest words and sweetest smiles for
strangers—3. Table etiquette—4, Morning
and evening greetings—5. Conversational
manners.
	(b) Church: 1. Be orderly in entering
—2. Avoid conversation during services—
3. Remain until after dismissal—4, Obey
all the rules—5. Avoid loud laughter or
conversation in building or on grounds.
	(c) Street: 1. Greetings—2. How to pass
—3. Introductions—4. Conversations—5.
Dress—6- Lady and her escort.
	(d) The Ball Room; Y. W. Journal 1902.
			LESSON II.
			Chastity.
	So dear to heaven is saintly chastity, that when
a soul is found sincerely so, a thousand liveried
angels lackey her.
	(a) Chastity: (1) What is it? (b) Neces-
sity of example—of parents. 1. Selection
of associates. (c) What to teach our boys
and girls: 1. That thought and action in-
fluence the body—2. Vulgar conversation
one of the chief causes of vices that ruin
body and soul. 3. Effect of unchastity on
the physical, mental and moral being. (4)
Unchastity contrary to laws of God and of
man.
			LESSON XII.
			Marriage.
	And again I say unto you that whoso forbid.
deth to marry is not ordained of God unto man-
Doc. and Cov. Sec. 49.
	(a) Preparation for marriage: 1. Ability
to make and care for a home. (2.) True
love—3. Courtship—how conducted—Par-
ents, responsibility. (4) Assurance through
prayer that the union would be approved
by God. (5) Worthy to be married prop-
erly. (b) Kinds: 1. For time. 2. For
Eternity—Compare.
	(c) Object of Marriage: 1. Compliance
with divine commandments. 2. Propaga-
tion of the human family. 3. Companion-
ship. 
					JANE LEFEVRE,
					MAMIE F. DODDS,
					KATE C. CLARK.
							Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


NATIONAL COUNCIL WOMEN—UNITED
			STATES.
My dear co-workers:
	In pursuance of the plan inaugurated in
my letter of April 22nd, I write to indicate
the way in which it seems to me best to
arrange the postponed annual demonstra-
tion on behalf of Peace and Arbitration,
which in the usual order would have been
set for May 16th, but on account of the
Thirteenth International Congress of Peace,
which is to convene in Boston the first week
in October, was deferred. The plans for
the congress are now so fully made that we
may go forward with our own.
	The congress in Boston will open on
Monday, October 3d, but will be preceded by
a great demonstration on Sunday, October
2nd. The pastors of the leading Boston
churches of all denominations have agreed
to devote the morning service of that day
to the Peace cause. In the afternoon there
will be a large special meeting at Tremout
Temple. It seems, therefore, eminently
proper that the Peace and Arbitration Com-
mittee of the National Council of Women
of the United States shall ask the clergy
throughout the country to devote the morn-
ing service of Sunday, October 2nd, to
some phase of the subject of peace and ar-
bitration.
	The meeting in Boston will occupy the
entire week. I feel that we can get the
benefit of the enthusiasm which this Thir-
teenth International Congress may excite,
as reports of it shall be disseminated by the
press throughout the country; and I there-
fore recommend that our committee shall.
through its various subordinate branches,
endeavor to have the demonstration ar-
ranged for Saturday, October 8th. I feel
that our general plan should coincide with
that of previous demonstrations.
	First. Let a member of each local com-
mittee seek to address the “clergymen’s
meeting,” and thus get a personal op-
portunity to ask ministerial associations
to take action in regard to this use of Sun-
day, October 2nd; or let each local commit-
tee send out to all of the clergymen of your
community a circular letter making the
same request. The fact that the great
meetings are going forward at Boston on
that date will inevitably secure the favor of
clergymen who otherwise might be unin-
terested, and will add zest to local meet-
ings.
	Second. Let each local committee organ-
ize a press committee, and make it the duty
of the committee on press to see that ade-
quate notices are given of the approaching
Peace Congress in Boston and of the ap-
proaching peace demonstration; of Mr. Ed-
win D. Meade, the chairman of the com-
mittee on organization of the congress, and
of Mr. Benjamin F. Trueblood, the secre-
tary, both of whom may be addressed, 20
Beacon Street, Boston, Mass. Lists of
foreign speakers, preliminary announce-
ments, programs, etc., may be obtained,
which if you can have reproduced either in
whole or in part in your local papers will
help turn the attention of the community
to the subject.
	Third. I take the liberty of giving below
pertinent subjects for discussion at the dem-
onstration:
	1. The pecuniary cost of war.
	2. The moral results of war.
	3. The effect of war upon the national
ideal of American citizenship.


[Column 1]
	4. The story of the organization of the
court of arbitration.
	5. A statement of cases that have already
been presented before it.
	6. Consideration of differences existing
among peoples at the present time which
properly should be referred to the court of
arbitration.
	7. The incompatibility of the Christian
life with war, its practices, its ideals.
	Fourth. Certainly, every member of our
committee should be a subscriber to "The
Advocate of Peace," which is published by
the American Peace Society at 31 Beacon
Street, Boston, and can be obtained for
$1.00 a year. Every issue of the Advocate
contains a list of peace literature with
prices. Even so small a sum as $2.00,
wisely used, would fill the hands of any
local committee with means of information
which again wisely used through the local
press, would do much to incline public
feeling in right directions, and to educate
the public to the atrocity of war and the
practicability of the methods of arbitration.
	Fifth. It is very desirable that great
pains should be taken not to allow the se-
lection of speakers to be influenced by lo-
cal conditions, and if possible to have
speakers from both of the leading political
parties; indeed, in the arrangement of the
entire program, it is wise to have as many
different shades of political opinion and as
many different religious sects represented as
possible. This will give to the program
that non-partizan air which is indispensable
to success.
	Sixth. May I suggest that the members
of this committee take the greatest possible
pains to secure adequate and numerous
reports of the local meetings in the local
press. Nay, I also ask every member of
my committee and every chairman of a
subordinate local committee who had the
management of a peace meeting in charge
kindly to send to my address the newspaper
reports of the meeting.
	Seventh. May I also remind all persons
having charge of meetings, that we desire
the resolution which has been passed at our
annual demonstrations since 1900 again to
be passed at the coming demonstration? It
goes without saying, that wherever a local
council exist, the local council is the prop-
er medium through which meetings in con-
nection with this universal demonstration
should be arranged. Where no local coun-
cil exists, if the person kindly taking the
meeting in charge would, as far as possible,
follow the council method by making up a
committee of organization, which should be
representative of all the leading organiza-
tions of the place, it seems as if both the
question in hand "Peace and arbitration"
and the "Council ideal" would be pro-
moted.
	Finally. May I ask everyone into whose
hands this letter comes kindly:
	First. To acknowledge its receipt?
	Second. To report to me from time to
time her own progress in the work?
	Third. Not later than Monday, October
10, to send to my address, in the most con-
densed form, answers to the following ques-
tions:

[Column 2]
	(a) To what degree did the elergymen
respond to the request concerning the serv-
ices of October 2nd?
	(b) How many meetings were you able
to organize?
	(c) How many addresses were there at
each meeting?
	(d) How many persons in actual attend-
ance?
	(e) How many were represented by elect-
ed delegates?
	(f) Did your meeting pass the resolu-
tions?
	(g) Additional comment.
	I feel confident that if you will go to
work immediately upon the receipt of this
letter and secure as many of your friends as
possible to aid you in executing its sugges-
tions, you will be able to witness great suc-
cess on October 8th, and have the pleasure
of reporting such success to me on October
10th.
	The presence of so many foreigners in
this country, all of whom are deeply inter-
ested in the demonstration, should add
greatly to the zest of our workers.
	There is one condition under which I
think it excusable to change the date and
character of the Peace meeting that you
shall organize. If, after having obtained
from Mr. Meade the list of foreign delegates
who will be assembled at Boston, you find
there are any whose presence would awak-
en great popular interest in your commun-
ity, and if by correspondence with them
you find that you can obtain their serv-
ice by holding a Peace meeting at a later
date, it might be well for you to do so.
Yet even then, my judgment is, that so lim-
ited is the fame of our Peace workers com-
pared with that of the workers in other 
lines of public beneficence, that you would
be likely to have a better Peace meeting for
one of the foreign speakers to address, if
that special and particular meeting were
preceded by the proposed annual demon-
stration.
	In the Woman's Journal of Angust 6th,
you can, if you desire, find my account of
the Peace Meeting of the International
Council at Berlin—by all means the most
remarkable meeting held during that fort-
night. You know that that paper can be 
obtained by application to the office of the
Woman's Journal, No. 5 Park Street, Bos-
ton, Mass. In the Evening Boston Tran-
script of August 6th is an article relating to
the work accomplished for peace during the
late quinquennial. You might be interest-

[Column 3]
ed in the information contained in these
two articles, and might be helped in your
plan of work by reading them.
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
OBSTETRICS

	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics on Monday, October 10, 1904. This
class will also have the advantage of at-
tending the RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
CLASS taught by Dr. Roberts. For fur-
ther information, communicate with Dr.
Roberts, 79 C Street. Telephone 2002.

					R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5.
	The Relief Society Nurse Class will com-
mence September 19, 1904, continuing
eight months. Four lessons a week will
be given by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, the
class instructor, and lectures by other phy-
sicians and surgeons of Salt Lake City.
There will also be a course of lectures on
cooking and other important subjects con-
nected with the nurse profession by mem-
bers of the General Board of the Relief So-
ciety or by those whom they may appoint.
	Students wishing to taka the nurse course
and not previously provided with places to
stay during the term will have an oppor-
tunity of getting good homes where they
can at least earn enough to pay for their
board and room. It would be advisable for
those intending coming from a distance, to
be here a few days before the class com-
merces in order to have time to get settled
in such places, during which few days they
will be provided for. Call on Mrs. P. Y.
Beatie, secretary, 55 N. West Temple.
				EMMA A EMPEY,
	Supt. Relief Society Nurse Classes

	Obstetrical class commences Monday,
October 10, 1904. Tuition, $40.00; books,
$4.00 to $7.00, Ten dollars less will be
charged to those who attend Relief Society
Nurse Class.
	Ladies taking both classes, it might be
advisable if several could club together,
rent rooms and board themselves.
	MARGARET C. ROBERTS, Instructor.

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
stetrics on Monday, Oct. 10, 1904, at
her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake
City. Those desiring to attend will
please communicate personally or by
letter. This class recommended by the
General Board of the Relief Society.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
				AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing October 10, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 33						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1904					No. .4


CONTENTS.
An Interesting Letter........... Abbie H. Cowley	25
D R. May Meeting.............................. E.B.W.	26
Miss Mabelle Biggart Interviewed..................	a7
Kensington Teas............................... A Friend	27
R. S. Reports—Panguitch Stake....... M. H. H.	27
	Salt Lake Stake............. Martha P. Smith	30
	Liberty Stake.................. Lizzie Robbins	30
Visit in St. George Stake.................................	29
Bishop’s Birthday Party...................... E.C.W.	29
Death of a Pioneer.................... L. C. Gardner	30
Close of the Berlin Meeting............................	31
EDITORIAL—The New Civilization.............	28
	A Pioneer Anniversary............................	28
	September Meeting, D. R. ......................	28
Editorial Notes ................................................	20
POETRY—“Home, Sweet Home”...... E. R S.	25
	Out of the Crucial............ Mable Biggart	27


“HOME, SWEET HOME.”
Once there was written a song, now immortal,
	By one who was destined life’s pathways to
		roam.
By Paine, then denied the sanctified portal,
	The restfulness found with loved ones at home.
And he must surely have tasted its glories,
	Or how could he picture the pleasure that’s
		there?
Exceeding e’en all the beautiful stories
	Of poet and sage on the sweetness of home.
Home! sweet, sweet home! blest home, dear and
		sacred,
	How the innermost depths of our being is
		thrilled!
Even vanquishing pain, and sorrow, and hatred,
	With holiest thought all natures are filled,
At home, where in love and union are blended
	The hearts of its inmates in unchanging love,
That fireside with virtue and honor defended
	By God’s holy presence and smiles from above.
Must I, like our bard, forever, I wonder,
	Be destined the pangs of an exile to know?
From country to country forever to wander
	Alone ’mid life’s blasts my tears ever flow.
Perhaps there will ne’er be abiding place for me
	In this mortal sphere of trial and strife;
Thank God for the hope of eternal glory
	To those who endure in faith through this life.
Thank God for the sweet, the blessed assurance
	Of a heavenly peace which to each one will
		come
As a guerdon to all for patient endurance—
	That perfect, that bright, immortalized home.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.


AN INTERESTING LETTER.
	NORTHAMPTON, MASS.,
					July 12, 1904,
Dear Sister Wells:
	Being in your native state, my thoughts
turn to you and to my friends who left this
beautiful place to assist in building up the
barren country to which the Lord directed
His people
	Acording to your wish, I will give you
a brief account of our travels. My daugh-
ter and myself left our home June 1 to
visit Canada, being invited by my nephew,

[Column 2]
John W. Wolf, to accompany himself and
wife to their home in Cardston on their re-
turn from the June conference.
	After a very pleasant trip of two days we
arrived in Sterling June 14, where we
were met at the depot by Brother Brandley.
After partaking of his kind hospitality over
night, we proceeded on to Cardston, where
we were welcomed by relatives and friends.
We improved the time for two weeks vis-
ting and looking at the country, which,
at this time of the year, presents a very
beautiful appearance, the weather being as
pleasant as we could desire. The people
were busily engaged preparing for “Do-
minion Day,” which is the 1st of July.
	As we had our trip arranged for the
Eastern States, we did not participate in
the celebration. Starting on our tour June
27th, we took the Great Northern train
and sped along through northern Montana,
Dakota and Minnesota without changing
cars or stopping off until we reached St.
Paul, viewing as we passed the large
ranches of Montana, on which were com-
paratively small houses, which were
changed for the immense grain fields with
beautiful large houses, those which appear-
ed to us as ideal farm homes. The coun-
try looked like one great, green field as far
as the eye could see, now and then passing
a village or city.
	At St. Paul we changed cars en route for
Chicago. The country now presents a dif-
ferent appearance as we come to the beautiful
dells and lakes of the Wisconsin, which de-
lighted the eye for hours.
	We arrived at Chicago Thursday even-
ing, June 30th, where we were met by
Brother Ellsworth, who is laboring in the
missionary field. Friday and Saturday we
were engaged taking in some of the sights
of Chicago, visiting the University grounds,
where we met friends from home; also
visited some of the large buildings, parks,
etc , and enjoyed a delightful ride on Lake
Michigan. Sunday we attended meetings,
where we were kindly greeted by Elders
and Saints, we also attended a street meet-
ing, where we listened to Elders and sisters
proclaim the plan of life and salvation to
the people as they passed by. Now and
then one would stop and listen for a while,
then go on, and others would stop and lis-
ten until the meeting closed; occasionally
there would be a disturbance by some one
calling out in disrespectful terms, but the
Elders went on unheeding, so that those
who did desire might hear the truth.
	Being invited by President Asahel
Woodruff, we remained in Chicago to
spend the 4th of July, which was Monday.
We accompanied himself and family to
Washington Park, where Elders, Saints
and students arranged to celebrate. The
day was an ideal one. The beginning of
the programme seemed to be handshaking
and introducing one to another, as many
of the party were from different parts of
Zion, who were delghted to meet a friend
so far from home, while others were just
as pleased to meet a brother or a sister in
the Gospel, which is especially appreciated
in the world, where there are few in num-
ber.

[Column 3]
	About 1 o’clock cloths were spread upon
the green grass, and all partook of a boun-
teous lunch prepared by the sisters, after
which a meeting was called by Brother
Ellsworth, Marshal of the day, which con-
sisted of speeches, recitations and songs
suitable to the occasion, followed by sports
of different kinds, racing, games, boat rid-
ing, etc. After enjoying a very pleasant
day we bade the party good-by and took
the train en route for Massachusetts and
Maine, stopping, however, to view the
beautiful scenery of Niagara. Continuing
our travels we arrived at Boston, where we
remained but one day. We visited Bunker
Hill monument, Harvard University
grounds, and called on the Elders who
were laboring there, as well as all other
Elders we visited, they were feeling well
and enjoying the spirit of their calling.
Meeting with the Elders was among the
most enjoyable events of our trip, as we
felt we had met a friend and a brother.
	The evening of the 7th we took the
steamship for Portland, Maine, President
Martin, who had charge of this part of the
mission, accompanying us.
	We landed at Portland about 8 o’clock
in the morning, where we were kindly
received by (my husband’s) relatives. We
called on a sister of Grandma Foss, as she
was formerly known, who was also a sister
of Aunt Phoebe Woodruff, our late Presi-
dent Woodruff’s departed wife, Mrs. Shuah
Moulton, who has attained the age of nine-
ty-three years. She was in good health
and spirits for one of her age; was pleased
to hear of her sisters’ families who left
their homes here so many years ago. We
were indeed pleased to see her; she re-
membered all of her departed sisters; in-
quired about their famiies, calling them by
name. She has a family of useful children
around her—a son who is a leading lawyer
in Portland, and two daughters, one being
a school teacher. She told us how she had
striven to educate them and keep them
around her, as she was left a widow when
they were young. She seemed interested
in the current topics of the day, on which
she conversed. Also the signs of the times
as referred to in the scripture. which
seemed to her were pointing to the last
days.
	Our time being limited we did not stay
long, as we had an appointment to meet
Miss Foss, my husband’s cousin, who was
going to show us around Scarborough and
Soco, from which places my husband’s
mother and grandmother came We started
on our ride about 11 o’clock and continued
until 6 o’clock. The scenery of the coun-
try was a change for us. being hills and
hollows, with large tracts of woods, with
here and there a farm house and a patch of
green grass around it, which was the farm,
with generally an orchard. The grass,
however, was tall and thick, vegetation
being very luxuriant everywhere. Among
the woods are beautiful ferns and flowers.
	We visited the home of Gradma Foss a[-]d
Aunt Phoebe Woodruff, also the birthplace
and childhood home of my husband’s
mother. The houses are in good condition,
one of them being over a hundred years


[Column 1]
old, and looks as fresh as though it had
just been completed. A striking feature
of these homes is their freshness, being
painted often to preserve them, as they are
made of wood. Most of them are painted
white, and look very pretty among the
green trees. We also visited the family
cemetery. After visiting the beautiful
places here we were driven to “Prout’s
Neck,” a beautiful resort within a stone's
throw of the ocean, owned by Ira Foss and
his two sisters, my husband's cousins. 
There were about one hundred guests at
the resort, which is commodious enough to 
accommodate two hundred, the grounds
with the woods near by are very beautiful.
For the first time in my life I gathered 
shells on the sea shore and heard the waves
dash against the rocks. In the evening
the family gathered in their parlors, where
the time was pleasantly spent in relating
incidents of progenitors who lived about
here so many years ago. Next morning
we bade goodby to friends, and to one of
the most beautiful places it has been my
pleasure to visit, and retnrned to Boston. 
	We visited while in Portland the birth-
place of Henry W. Longfellow, and an-
other home he once occupied. The next
day being Sunday we remained in Boston
to attend the Latter-day Saints' meeting,
after which we went on to Northampton,
where we arrived a short time before dark.
The names of the places now began to be-
come familiar to me, as I had heard my
mother speak of them so often, but not so
with the country for I had not imagined
anything so beautiful. We walked leisure-
ly along enjoying the appearance of the
streets and houses as we passed. The side-
walks and streets were almost covered
with grass which continued on to the doors,
and with so many large trees the places
looked like a continuous garden. It surely
is the prettiest, cleanest little city I have
ever visited. The principal manufacturing
is that of silk thread. We walked around
the grounds of the Smith College for girls
where we were told that five thousand
girls attended school.
	We continued our walk until dark when
we took rooms for the night. After getting
located, we went out again to get the air,
the evening being very warm. Thinking
we were near my cousin's home we inquired
where Charles Gloyd lived, the gentleman
answered, "This is the place, come in."
They were expecting us having already
met one train. We went in, but did not
intend to stay to stay this time as it was
getting late, but said we would call in the
morning. He said he felt he had something
to say about that and requested that we re-
main at his home while in the city and as
long as we could, and this being the feel-
ing of his wife we were pleased to remain,
as we wished to spend all the time we
could with our people, which was the ob-
ject of our visit. We did not retire until
late, we were so interested in talking of
loved ones. My cousin remembered my
mother well, especially the morning she aad
her cousin left their home to take the long
journey with ox teams to the Rocky moun-
tains. He thought they must have had
great courage to undertake such a journey.
I told him they exhibited this same cour-
ageous spirit throughout their lives, that
nothing would have induced them to give
up their pioneer life and leave the great
work which would gain for them an exalta-
tion in the world to come. They had heard
but little of the Gospel for which my moth-

[Column 2]

er had left her home, and made some in-
quiries, especially becoming interested in
the Redemption for the Dead. We re-
mained at their home until the following
afternoon when we started for Cumming-
ton, the birthplace and early home of my
mother, my cousin accompanying us. We
took the street car to Williamsburg, a dis-
tance of ten miles, here we procured a team
as we had about fifteen more miles to travel,
passing over a beautiful country, the road
winding around hills which were covered
with dense forests of maple, oak, elm, cher-
ry and different kinds of nuts. Along the
roadside which followed the Westfield
river were many beautiful ferns and shrub-
bery of different kinds, the sumach especi-
ally being noticable with its beautiful red
berries. Occasionally we would see beauti-
ful flowers, the laurel, tiger lily, roses,
daisies, etc., as well as a variety of herbs.
I thought it no wonder our grandparents so
well understood the use of them as medi-
cines.
	On entering Cummington we saw the
Bryant Library, which had been presented
to the town by William Cullen Bryant. In
the evening we met my cousin's son and
daughter and son’s wife who were spending
a few days in Cummington, which is a cool,
delightful place in summer. Early in the
morning we started out to look around at
the places of interest. Visited a paper [-]ill,
called on some friends who were neighbors
to my mother, whose names were as fami-
liar to me as the names of my own personal
friends, and they seemed very pleased to
see us, asking that we remain with them
longer. After being entertained for several
hours by two of my cousin's nieces we went
driving around the William Cullen Bryant
[-]ummer home. It was here, we were told,
he wrote "Thanatopsis." The home is
now occupied by his daughter. It is situ-
ated on a hill with other hills surrounding
it, covered with woods, a large orchard is
near by and a grassy plot surrounds the
house. A little further on we came to the
place where my mother was born lived
for many years. This is also on a hill
and other hills surrounding it are covered
with maple trees that my grandfather
owned, behind it rises Deer Hill. A
group of houses are at the foot of the hill,
where a stream of water runs on where my
grandfather's woolen mills once stood. The
home has been abandoned for years, as one
could tell by its appearance. It has recent-
ly been purchased by parties who are going
to repair it. The lady invited us in to look
at the house, being pleased that we were
so much interested in it, and thought she
would now like the home better herself.
Having brought our lunch, we ate it under
a large maple tree in the front yard and
for desert we gathered wild raspberries
near by. We drank from the spring which
furnished water for our kindred people,
and plucked roses to press and preserve
that grew near the door, and which were
planted by them, while a short time
before we had gathered flowers from their 
graves. We walked through the tall grass
to look at the old mill wheel, the only re-
mains of Grandfather Gloyd's woolen mills 
in which my mother worked to secure
means which enabled her to gather with
the people who had the Gospel that was so
dear to her. After looking around we came 
to the conclusion that there had once been
a comfortable and prosperous home, and
were told that times were lively enough

[Column 3]

when our grandfather was there carrying
on his business.
	I now realize more keenly than ever be-
fore the sacrifice our parents made in leav-
ing their homes for the Gospel sake. With
a prayer in my heart to my Heavenly
Father that my mother had been inspired
of Him to receive the Gospel and gather
with His people whereby she could be the
means of redeeming her father's household,
and also with feelings of gratitude in my
heart for the privilege of realizing this
much desired visit, we rode away and the
day closed on one of the most interesting
and enjoyable times of my life. 
				ABBIE H. COWLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


D. R. MAY MEETING
	The Utah State Society Daughters of the
Revolution met on Monday, May 16, 1904,
at the home of the secretary Mrs. Lucy
Woodruff Smith,, the Regent, Mrs. Isabel
M. W. Sears presiding. The parlors were
handsomely decorated with flags of various
nations, which made the occasion very im-
pressive, the stars and stripes were most
conspicuously placed, and there were many
countries effectively represented by these
beautiful emblems.
	After prayer by the Chaplain, and the
usual business routine, the Regent, Mrs.
Sears, stated that the report had been for-
warded to the General Society, and she had
received a letter from Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, the Delegate from the Utah D. R. to
the Annual Convention of the General So-
ciety in New York City, stating that she
had been present at the meetings and had
read the report which was favorably re-
ceived and that she received considerable ap-
plause, also that in behalf of the Utah D.
R. she had given ten dollars towards the
purse of money presented to the President
General, Miss Adaline W. Sterling, by the
several states represented in the General
Society. The action of Mrs. Horne in giv-
ing the money met with unanimous ap-
proval of the members.
	A circular letter was then read from the
General Society stating that a plan was be-
ing formulated for the placing of some mark
or monument at Yorktown.
	The Regent stated she had informed the
chairman of said committee that Utah D.
R. would give its proportion to this particu-
lar purpose.
	It was moved and carried that the Regent
be sustained in the matter.
	The business being finished the program
was then given. An interesting sketch of the
life of Nathan Hale was given by the
Regent, Mrs. Sears, for Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, who had beea unable to pre-
pare her topic on account of serious illness in
her family. Mrs. Farnsworth read with
much feeling a poem written for Nathan
Hale, and Miss Catherine Wells concluded
the subject with a very fine sketch of Mr.
Hale’s courtship and the woman he loved.
	Meeting then adjourned until the annual
meeting, June 10, 1904. There were pres-
ent beside the members, as guests, Mes-
dames Charlotte F. Richards, Lucy Smtth
Acomb, and Rebecca E. Nibley. Dainty
refreshments were served and social con-
versation indulged in, relating more particu-
larly to the different flags, etc., Mrs. Smith
had collected while abroad.
							E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUT OF THE CRUCIAL.
	BY MABELLE BIGGART.
I said:
	I will walk in the fields,
	Where the flowers are fresh
	And the skies are blue-
God said:
	"Nay, walk in the town,
	There hearts are burdened-
	And homes despoiled!"
I said:
	But the clouds are black- 
	The way is dark- 
	And my courage is faint!
God said:
	"But hearts are sick-
	In the noise and the din-
	There is work for thee-
	In the sorrow and sin!"


[Column 1]
MISS MABELLE BIGGART INTERVIEWED.

SOME OF THE LEADING WOMEN I HAVE
				MET.
	M'lle Monont who has been at the head of
Women's Congresses; is of one of the oldest
families of good French stock. She is the
supporter and at the head of the largest
Deaconesses' home in the world. She is
Christian and philanthropic. She presided
at the women's conference at Versailles a
year ago in May. This conference was
held on a pleasant estate loaned for the pur-
pose. There were over a thousand women
present by invitation, representing the
leading women of Paris, who are philan-
thropic without being essentially Christian.
All subjects pertaining to women and the
advancement of social life in Paris and
other portions of continental Europe were
brought forward in most enthusiastic papers.
There were delegates from many countries,
who, by the way, were on their way to the
W. C. T. U. World's International Confer-
ence, which was meeting at Geneva, Swit-
zerland. Of course, the papers and all
were given in the French tongue. It was
an all-day session, most inspiring, most en-
thusiastic. I was pleased with one of the
women editors of a leading Parisian journal.
She was particularly of the Latin type.
Her magnetism was very striking. A look,
a gesture, meant as much as a word. Her
subject matter was that of crying down ob-
scene pictures in the streets of Paris and
putting forth pure literature to the young
as well as the old of France. M'lle Monont
presided with dignity and grace and rare
tact, which she always shows.
I would like to tell you of Mrs. Eliza
Arbo, widow of the famous historical and
mythological painter of Christiania, Nor-
way. She has one of the finest private
salons outside of Paris. Her home was
designed by her late husband, and her
studio is a rare art gallery, filled with the
paintings of her late famous husband and
also some of her own. They both studied
and worked together in Paris. Mrs. Arbo
is living in retirement, in a measure, now
in the old capital city, Christiania, giving
her time to philanthropic interests, woman's
work, her art and the education of her two
delightful daughters, but all in a quiet gen-
teel way. She is a woman of rare gifts. A
linguist. Her nationality is English and
Norwegian, so that she has the characteris-
tics of each nation, and considerable that
has been acquired from the French, from
her long residence with them.

[Column 2]
	The picture Valkyrie, the god Thor rush-
ing through the air with his servants and
his attendants and going to Valhalla, where
they rest from their labors for a while, ac-
cording to the mythological story, is one of
the most beautiful creations that her hus-
band could have made. This picture hangs
in the National Gallery in Christiania, and
there is also a copy of it in her own home.
	I spent many pleasant days with her and
through her I was introduced to many
prominent people.
	I might say that the women of Christiania
and other portions of Norway, whom I had
the privilege of meeting, are proud to call
themselves "the Americans of the North."
That is because they are watching for wo-
man's progress and all that attains to her
development and uplifting conditions, and
so they look to us for these points in which
we have progressed.
	Movements are on foot for the social life
of woman, and, I might say, the true eman-
cipation of woman, in Norway.
	We can scarcely realize the thraldom of
her women, but they have taken the question
in hand and are presenting to their govern-
ment amendments whereby woman shall
have her freedom in more lines than I could
mention in this little interview: freedom
which is needed in lines of purity and
emancipation.
	In Sweden the Frederika-Bremer Club
has done an immense good. From it go
out nearly all the philanthropic lines of
Stockholm. I met some of their leaders
and I was entertained by several ladies in
the city who are interested in similar work
as that being started in Christiania. The
lines are drawn somewhat closer to women
in Sweden than in Norway, but they, on
the other hand, are also waking up and
have petitioned Parliament, through a long
line of signatures, to give them also the
needed freedom for woman.
	There are many noble workers in Stock-
holm among women, and I was particular-
ly interested in what I called the titled, or
noble-women. Suffice it to say, that the
titled people walk in Stockholm, and the
people who have come up from the lower
ranks and acquired money quickly, or who
have been to America and brought back
money, they ride in their carriages, but
many people of title and noble rank are
living simply, dressing simply, but pro-
gressing, and are even found in commercial
interests. We must not forget that it is an
old, a very old aristocratic kingdom and
that Norway has drawn away from all others
and has become a Republic. Therefore,
the society of the two is quite different.
	We may say, as to women of the world
that, as Lowell says, "God sends His teach-
ers into every age, to every land and every
tongue, nor gives the realm of truth unto the
selfish rule of one sole race." So God has
raised up one noble leader in every land, or
more. He has given Christiania, or you
might say Norway, its Camilla Collette;
Sweden its Frederika-Bremer; Germany
its Angel Queen, Louise; England its Flor-
ence Nightingale and Catherine Booth; and
America its Clara Barton and Frances Wil-
lard.


KENSINGTON TEAS.
	The question asked by every lady who is
desirous of entertaining her friends is;
What shall I have for a novelty?
	So serious is this query becoming and the


expense entailed, that only those whom
‘‘Dame Fortnne” has favored with ample
means can attempt it, without an amount
of squeezing and saving in other necessities
that is inconvenient and exceedingly an-
noying. 
	In Chicago many ladies have ceased this
mode of entertainment altogether, and yet
the gatherings are equally enjoyable.
	When the guests are assembled a series
of interesting announcements are com-
menced, in which those previously invited
to assist take part.
	Music, singing and recitations take their
share, and interspersed are pithy sayings or
actions that the fertile imaginations of the
entertainers can suggest.
	Not more than a few minutes is allowed
between each part of the program. Scan-
dal is strictly prohibited. Simple refresh-
ments are served round the rooms, and af-
ter about two hours the guests disperse,
all expressing themselves thoroughly de-
lighted and having passed a very pleasant
time.
	I merely offer this as a suggestion to our
Salt Lake ladies and think it worthy of a
trial.
			A FRIEND OF THE EDITOR.


R. S. REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened at Panguitch Tabernacle,
June 13, 1904, commencing at 10 a. m.
President Elizabeth DeLong presiding,
after the usual exercises of singing, prayer,
etc., a letter was read explaining that the
sisters that were to visit us were unable to
do so on account of the death of Apostle
Owen Woodruff’s wife as his mother was
one of the sisters appointed to visit us, and
she had to go, and get his little motherless
children.
	Wards were reported as follows: Pan
guitch Ward by President Mary B. Hey-
wood; Henrieville Ward by Sister C. E.
Savage; Escelanta Ward by President Mary
E. Alvy; Kingston Ward by President
Hannah E. Sudweeks; Tropic Ward by
Sister Sarah J. Hilton; Sister Barbara
Myers bore her testimony.
	Sister Mary H. Levy gave a report of her
visit to Salt Lake City to the Young Ladies
Conference. Sister Hannah A. Crosby
spoke on the opportunities of our yonng
people today. Sister Lyda Row gave a
report of the mothers work in Escelanta
Ward.
	President Elizabeth DeLong announced
that a lunch would be served during the
noon hour at the Relief Society Hall, for
all visiting sisters, and officers and mem-
bers of the choir. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. Sister
Mammie T. Dodds gave a lecture on
Motherhood, Sister Annie K. Lee sang.
Sister Allie Clark spoke. Laura Montague
sang, Sister Maria L. Sargent, Sister Alice
Jane Cameron, Sister Margaret H. Clark
and President Elizabeth LeLong each spoke
briefly.
	MARGARET H. HAYCOCK, Secetary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			
				Woman's Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months’
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1904


[Column 1]
	THE NEW CIVILIZATION.
	The world during the last century more
especially has enlarged its activities in a
wonderful degree and in many ways. An
impetus has been given to labor-saving to
a very great extent. Many of the things
formerly made by hand requiring time and
strength are now performed quicker and
even better by machinery. Although there
are still some people very slow to accept
new methods, and persist in doing as their
forefathers did in “the good old times” so
often quoted. One strange feature about
all these great improvements is that there
seems to be no more leisure, one sometimes
thinks not even as much for women, as our
foremothers had. As Sister Eliza R. Snow
would say, “This is the conundrum.”
	We women used to do many things that
are done for us now ever so much better,
and we cannot help wondering how it was
accomplished at all when there was so much
to be done. For instance, women made
their own soap, candles, molasses, and did
all, or nearly all, their own cooking, wash-
ing, ironing and sewing all by hand, and
many women carded the wool, spun
the rolls, and colored the yarn, knit all the
stockings, wove cloth for family wear, and
carpets for the floor, and we know of in-
stances where women took the wool from
the sheep. These pioneer women too,
actually worked over fire places with bake-
kettles and skillets, and used the old
fashioned cranes and pot hooks to hang the
kettles on for boiling purposes. Some of
our young people nowadays have never
seen a crane, and are surprised to hear of
such a thing. Have they studied Long-
fellow? Yes undoubtedly, and read “The
Hanging of the Crane,” which “long ago”
was celebrated with much ceremony when
a new house was built. There was a sort of
jollification at such times,
		“A fortunate, a happy day.”

	‘‘So said the guests in speech and song
	As in the chimney burning bright
	We hung the iron crane tonight,
	And merry was the feast and song.”
	Those simple, primitive village affairs
were very different to the "swell” entertain-
ments of our modern life. Apple-parings,
husking-bees, quilting parties and spelling
bees, were part and parcel of early life in
pioneer days. Neighbors were more soci-
able and if sometimes one spoke to a new
neighbor without an introduction, it was
not thought “ill-bred.”
	We women certainly rejoice in all the im-

[Column 2]
provements in the way of living, and house-
keeping especially, but the mystery still re-
mains when we complain of lack of time
to do the few things left to do by hand
How did our grandmothers and great-
grandmothers do all these things they tell
us of, and most of them raised large fami-
lies besides?
	They did not read as many books per-
haps, there were not so many newspapers
either, but they read the Bible even more
religiously, than is done by most women in
this age, and they kept the Sabbath day
more sacredly. It is often said they did not
have so many frills and furbelows, how-
ever that is not quite true, when one recalls
the fine stitching and hemming and the em-
broidering of fine linen, lace and muslin;
and the elaborate ruffled shirt fronts worn
by men, and the lace caps that all married
women only in the thirties wore in the last
century, why it gives one a pain to think
it over. We really have improved in dress-
ing, although some fashions are elaborate,
and as for corsets and tight-lacing, this
generation is far better than fifty years ago.
They used to write long letters in the
earlier times, now we send telegrams and
telephone messages, and if we must write
a letter it must be done on the typewriter
(to save time), and all the individuality is
taken out of it; it’s machine work only, and
lacks the touch of fine tone that letter-
writing once brought with it.
We really have too much formality
sometimes, do not come as much in touch
with each other in our daily lives as we
should do. If it were possible to show our-
selves interested in each other’s welfare,
and say a few kind things in passing along,
and not rush all the time with lightning
speed, perhaps we would be as well off in
the end, and make more friends and do a
little good to those, whose lives are heavy-
burdened. We used to visit, really visit,
socially and get acquainted in a nearer view
with our relatives and neighbors, now we
cannot get time even to make brief calls,
but there is so much business to be done,
and traveling to and fro, these are some of
the things we women do more of than our
predecessors. We are trying to make the
world better, more enlightened, so some of
us think, with new laws, new methods,
new plans of work, and we are reaching
out to a larger number of people, and talk
to them about pure food, and hygiene and
sanitation, and good roads and art in their
homes, and music of the fiuest quality, and
we grade our schools and colleges, and do
everything with technique, and run to ex-
tremes instead of maintaining an equal bal-
ance, until sometimes it seems that old-
fashioned ways would be preferable, be-
cause we overdo so many things, and have
not time to be considerate of other people
in a social way, or hospitable and kindly;
and we pass over the graceful, gracious,
homely, generous ways, and let our nearest
duties go undone, trying to reach such high
ambitions, that we almost l[]e our own self-
respect and condemn our own conduct.
	The world, however, must be taken as
this generation has made it, with its marvel-
ous growth in intellectuality in art and
science and mechanical processes and rapid
traveling by steam and electricity, and such
knowledge as comes of this great wave
of artificial forces, and do the best we can,
not to be puffed up with pride, because of
our great discoveries of things hitherto un-
known.
	The Latter-day Saints surely who under-

[Column 3]stand the truths of the Gospel, should be
careful to avoid making the mistakes that
seem prevalent in the world and keep that
spirit which leads into all truth, that they
may be kept from the evils of the world
that they may enjoy the advantages of
what is termed in common parlance the
new civilization of the age in which we
are living.


A PIONEER ANNIVERSARY.
	The Utah Society daughters of the
Pioneers met on Friday, September 23, at
the home of Miss Josephine Spencer in
honor of the day when her father, Daniel
Spencer with his family and a large com-
pany of Saints entered the valley of the
Great Salt Lake in 1847. This was the first
meeting after adjournment for the summer
months. Bishop Orson F. Whitney by in-
vitation gave a most entertaining talk upon
the work of the pioneers and particularly
the life and labors of Daniel, Orson and
Hyrum Spencer. He was listened to with
rapt attention. Other exercises were of
special interest notably the musical part of
the program.
	Messrs. Spencer, Pyper, Whitney and
Patrick celebrated Quartette singers, sang
“Come, Come ye Saints” at the opening of
the meeting and afterwards “Hard times
come again no more,” also one other hymn.
	These meetings are of a historic charac-
ter and serve to remind the young people
of today, what the pioneers of the desert
endured in establishing this fair common-
wealth of which their descendants are so
justly proud. The program for the year
has been prepared by a competent commit-
tee who have taken great pains to give va-
riety and make it interesting and the offic-
ers would be greatly encouraged if the
members and friends would attend the
meetings in larger numbers and more regu-
larly. Utah is still making history and it
is worth while to keep posted.


SEPTEMBER MEETING, D. R,
	The first meeting of the Daughters of
the Revolution (after adjournment during
the summer months) was held on Friday,
September 16, at the home of Mrs. Isabel
M. W. Sears. The parlors were very
beautifully decorated with nasturtiums and
sweet peas, and vases of the most exquisite
roses of a variety of kinds, all of Mrs. Sears
own raising.
	The Society colors, the stars and stripes,
and patriotic pictures with the Declaration
of Independence were also in evidence and
were inspiring to the company. Regent
Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie presiding. After
the usual exercises, some letters from the
General Society were read and commented
upon.
	The paper of the day was by Ella W.
Hyde, subject, Anthony Wayne and was
very well read and delightfully written.
	After the paper as neither Mrs. DeWolf
or Mrs. Wright who were given the story
and poem were present, Mrs. W. H. King
was urged to tell of her Eastern trip from
which she had just returned. Mrs King
spoke in glowing terms of Judge Parker,
the Democratic nominee for President of the
United States, and of his charming wife,
and the noted people with whom Judge
King and herself had the honor of dining
at the Parker home; told of the brilliant


conversation and her personal impressions
of these famous men and women whom she
had the opportunity of meeting at a social
function. Mrs. King also gave some other
incidents of her journey that were very in-
teresting.
	After the meeting adjourned, refresh-
ments were daintily served by the daught-
ers of the hostess including delicious fruit
from her own orchard. A very pleasant
hour was passed in social conversation, and
the ladies at parting were given bouquets
of the beautiful flowers. Guests of honor
present were Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Emma S. Woodruff.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	If the good sisters, and our patrons, and
friends of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT will
have patience, and forbearance of our short-
comings, they shall very soon have the
October number, containing the minutes of
the Relief Society Conference and other in-
teresting articles.
	Stakes visited by officers of the Relief
Society, members of Board and others dur-
ing the month of September are Sisters
Mary A. C. Lambert and Hattie B. Harker
Bear Lake, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde
and Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson St. George
and Parowan. Sisters Priscilla Smith and
Clara L. Clawson Panguitch, also expected
to visit Kanab but did not get time. It is
expected San Juan, Star Valley, St John’s,
Snowflake, St. Joseph, Maricopa and Juarez
will be visited during the year, this will
complete the entire list of Conferences.


[Column 1]
	VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.
	Sisters Ann C Woodbury and Emma
Morris, of the St. George presidency of the
Relief Society, and Mary G. Whitehead,
of the Primary, with Brother Samuel Miles
as driver, left St. George, Thursday, the
28th of July, and stopped overnight at
Chadburns. 29th, went on to Pine Valley,
held meeting at 2 p.m. with the Relief
Society, were very pleased to have the
Bishop and a number of the brethren meet
with us. At 4 p.m. we met with the Pri-
mary, a good spirit prevailed. The bishop
blessed us with his presence, which was
very encouraging. We had a good rain
that night, which was very gratifying, also
a boon to the country, as the crops needed
it badly. Went on to Pinto and met with
the Primary at 10 a.m. next day. It was
refreshing to meet with the bright children,
who paid good attention. We took dinner
with the Relief Society president, Sophia
H. Forsyth, after which we had a meeting
of the Society, and then went to Enterprise.
President Lydia Winsor entertained us for
the night. Sunday morning we met with
the Sabbath school, then we held a Primary
meeting. We took dinner with Sister Bar-
locher.
	In the afternoon, after the sacrament
was administered, the Bishop turned the
meeting over to the sisters, and we had an
enjoyable time. Bishop gave us much en-
couragent. Afterwards went on to Thomas
Terry’s ranch, where we were kindly en-
tertained. August 1st we traveled on to
Clover, there we met Brother Lyman Woods
and family, they are all that live there. We
held a meeting, with twenty-one present,
counting the children, and had an enjoy-
able time. Brother and Sister Woods are
in poor health, their farm is almost de-
stroyed through the railroad draining their
meadow land; but we rejoiced to meet with
a people that were thirsting for righteous-
ness. We spent the night there. The fol-
lowing day traveled twenty-five miles to
Panacca. President Sarah Lee gave us a
hearty welcome; and held a meeting at 10
a.m. next day with Primary. We were
invited to Brother John Lee’s to dinner,
and had a nice time with the sisters. In
the afternoon we met with the Relief Soci-
ety and had a lovely lot of sisters present.
President Lee invited all the sisters to meet
at her house at 7 o’elock p.m.. and had a
nice sociable time—ice cream and cake,
with a select program.
	On the 4th we traveled to Bristol Wells,
thirty-five miles; had to draw water from a
well for the horses; we laid our quilts on the
ground under a tree and had a good night’s
rest. In the morning we found a rattle-
snake under our carriage; it did not hurt
us, so we let it go. On the following day
drove to the Lewis ranch, where we slept
and rested well. Next d[-]y went to Lund,
and met there Brother Adolphus White-
head, Sister Mary Whitehead’s son, and
his wife, who is Sister Morris’ daughter,
and I was welcomed at the home of my
nephew, Brother George Gardner.
	On the 7th of August we met with the
Sabbath school and bore our testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, as it was fast
day. In the afternoon, after sacrament,
Bishop Orin Snow turned the meeting
over to the sisters, and we had a good time
and excellent spirit.
	On the 8th we went to Preston held
meeting at 10 a.m. with the Relief Society,
and at 2 p.m. with the Primary; were en-
tertained at Bishop Arnoldson’s. The peo-
ple all came out to our meetings; we feel
it is a pleasure to meet with the Saints of
God. Returned to Lund that night; the
9th we met at Eva Whitehead’s with the
prominent sisters, talked on the duties of
the officers of the Relief Society in regard
to storing grain and creating a fund for the
benefit of the poor in Zion.
	Aug. 10, started home 13th reached E[-]gle
Valley, held an evening meeting, had a
good turnout; there isn’t many here that
care anything for the Gospel. We reached
Modena on the 14th, rested our horses and
traveled about fifteen miles, and camped
for the night; next morning drove to Holt’s,
for breakfast.
	We arrived home all right, having trav-
eled between four and five hundred miles,
gone eighteen days, held thirteen meetings,
and trust we have done some good in urg-
ing the people to their duties. Ever pray-
ing for the welfare of Zion, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel.
				ANN C. WOODBURY.


[Column 1]
BISHOP’S BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	September 5th, 1904, a very pleasing en-
tertainment and banquet was tendered the
Bishop of the Sixth Ward, Salt Lake City,
Bishop James C. Watson by the brethren,
sisters, friends and guests. Among the in-
vited guests were present Elder Jos. E.
Taylor and wife. The occasion being in
honor of his sixtieth anniversary. The Re-
lief Society Officers and Mutual and Pri-
mary Association were untiring in their
efforts to make it a success, aided and
associated by Counselors Alex Burt, Albert
E. Boulton and Elder Arnold G. Giauque.

[Column 2]
The tables were beautifully decorated with
flowers and ferns, fruits, etc.
	After thanks being offered by Elder
Arnold G. Giauque two hundred and fifty
brethren partook of the supper. The Pres-
dent and young ladies of the Mutual in a
very courteous manner presided over the
tables.
	After supper there were exercises in the
Assembly Hall up stairs. Singing, “Guide
us O Thou Great Jehovah,” led by Elder
Thomas Green. Prayer by Elder Jos.
E. Taylor.
	Brother Taylor in a few well chosen
words congratulated the Bishop on having
attained his sixtieth birthday. Spoke of his
integrity to the Gospel, his kind charitable
acts to the poor, his fortitude during his
long sickness, his energy in attending to his
duties as far as his strength permitted him
Also of the integrity of the Bishop’s par-
ents to the Gospel; their kind acts and
charitable deeds to many who came to Utah
in hard times, who were in need; he had a
warm feeling for the Watson family. Pray-
ed the Lord to ease him of his pain and pro-
long his life if it was His will. Also coun-
seled his family to comfort and cheer him
in his affliction.
	Counselor Alice Butterworth in a very
pleasing manner in behalf of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, presented the Bishop
with a beautiful life sized photograph of
himself in a neat frame. Spoke of the in-
tegrity of the Bishop to the gospel, his kind
counsel to the Relief Society. Wished him
many happy returns of the day. Counselor
Margaret Leatham spoke of her long ac-
quaintance with the Bishop dating from
her childhood days; she had experienced
the hardships and privations incident to
the early days of Utah with the Bishop and
those who were here in these valleys at that
time. These things had endeared us to
each other.
	President Ellen R. Watson in behalf of
the Relief Society brethren and sisters of
the ward who had so kindly and ably as-
sisted in the entertainment thanked them.
The Bishop must feel honored by the re-
spect and love shown him by the Saints
and friends. Felt to thank her Heavenly
Father for His many blessings, knew He
had sustained the Bishop who had suffered
much pain in his long sickness congratula-
ted him on this his anniversary.
	Sister E. W. Condie appreciated the
kind council the Bishop had given her
prayed the Lord to bless him, and ease him
of his pain and suffering. Wished him
many happy returns of the day.
	First Counselor, of the Stake Relief
Society Lucy Smith Acomb, congratulated
the Bishop on this, his annniversary. Also
presented him with a beautiful birthday
cake decorated with sixty small American
flags.
	President Y. L. M. I. Association, Louisa
Giauque felt honored in assisting on this
occasion. Hoped the Bishop would have
many happy anniversaries, felt to honor him
and wish him many happy returns of the
day.
	Counselor Alexander Burt spoke of the
sterling qualities and integrity of the Bish-
op, his fortitude during his long sickness,
his charitable acts to the poor. Paid
high tribute to his parents who had passed
on the other side.
	Elder James Leatham spoke of his long
acquaintance with the Bishop, his kindness
to the poor, none ever went from his home
without being assisted and a kind word of


encouragement given them. Felt to honor
his parents whom he knew were of the true
blood of Ephraim, for he many times in ad-
ministering to them felt this to be true.
Congratulated the Bishop on this his anni-
versary.
	Counselor Albert E. Poulton also felt to
wish the Bishop many happy returns of the
day. Spoke of his integrity, his endurance
during his two terms of incarceration for the
truth and for obeying the laws of God.
	Elder Thomas Winter spoke of the early
days of Utah the trials and hardships the
Saints underwent at that time. The Bishop
sharing with his parents, brothers and sist-
ers in the same all feel to honor our Bishop
for his integrity to the gospel. The follow-
ing programme was beautifully rendered.
	Recitation, Sister Sarah J. Watson, en-
titled “The Martyrdom of Joseph and Hy-
rum.” Song entitled, “Many Happy Re-
turns of the Day,” by Bro. James H.
Poulton. Organist, Sister Louisa Giauque.
Scotch recitation by Lillie Hunter, “Our
Country Days.” Quartette by Misses Mabel
Poulton, Nettie Poulton, Florence Poulton
and Louisa Giauque, Quartette by Brother
Albert E. Poulton, Albert G. Langton,
George Hickenlooper, James Fullmer, Ray-
mond Cowborne; Entitled “My own dear
Mountain Home.” Song by Primary As-
sociation “Count your many Blessings.”
	Song by Sister Annie Poulton “We’re
growing Old;” Comic Song by Brother
James H. Poulton, entitled “When the
gentle breezes blow.” Song “Alice Where
art Thou,” by the Misses Poulton. Song by
Mabel Poulton, “You’ll remember me.’,
	The Bishop in his closing remarks thank-
ed his counselors and Relief Society, Mutual,
Primary Officers, young ladies all who had
so ably assisted in this entertainment to
make it such a grand success. Felt proud
of the brethren and si[-]ters of the Sixth
Ward. Thanked his Heavenly Father for
all His blessings bestowed on him. Of him-
self he could have done but little.
	In looking at the Photo presented to him
his heart was too full for many words, he
did thank the Relief Society and all who
aided in this. He would not feel satisfied
until a similar photo of our late and honored
Bishop Hickenlooper was also placed in
this Hall. Invoked the blessing of the Lord
on all the interests of Zion.
	Benediction was then pronounced by
Elder Hugh C. Watson.
						E. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF A PIONEER.

MRS. JANE McCUNE GARDNER CLOSES A WELL
				SPENT LIFE.
	Mrs. Jane McCune Gardner, a pioneer of 1847
died in Murray June 21st, 1904, at the home of her
daughter, Mrs. Margaret Miller, of acute old age.
	The deceased was a native of Canada, where
she was born July 24, 1823. She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1844, and
emigrated to Utah in 1847, arriving in Salt Lake
valley in October of that year, a few months after
the Pioneers, being a member of Bishop Hunter’s
company. 
	She lived with her husband Robert Gardner in
this valley up to 1862, when she was called to
settle in St. George, Washington Co., and later
moved to Pine Valley, where she has resided ever
since, Sister Gardner joined the Relief Society in
Pine Valley at the organization April 1st, 1874, at-
tended and did her part faithfully as a member
and as a worker, and was elected Second Counse-
lor to Sister D. M. Slade, Feb. 16th, 1886, which
[-]ffice she filled satisfactorily to the sisters and with
[-]onor to herself.


Sept. 16th, 1894, she was honorably released as
she went to Murray, Salt Lake City, to stay with
her daughters, and sent her resignation to the sis-
ters of the Relief Society, but in the spring she 
returned to Pine Valley though she often come to
stay with her daughters in Murray as Pine Valley
is very cold in winter and trying to old people,
but would return in the spring, as she was warmly
attached to home where her aged husband still re-
mains.
	Her heart was with the work of Relief Society,
and she did all she could with her poor health
when she was with us here.
	There were present at her bedside when she
passed away Mrs. Mary Jane Miller and Mrs.
Margaret Miller of Murray, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Helm of Mill creek, and a number of grand-chil-
ren among them Bishop U. G. Miller of Murray.
	Mrs. Gardner was the mother of 12 children, 9
of whom survive her, she leaves 71 grand-children,
30 great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grand
child, the latter being Riva the one year-old
daughter of Walter Cluff of Provo. William Gard-
ner who spent some years in New Zealand as a
missionary, and James Gardner counselor to Bish-
op C. C. Christensen of Kanosh, are her sons;
Reuben G. Miller, President of the Emery Stake
and Bishop U. G Miller of Murray are her grand-
sons, and she has left many relatives and friends
to mourn her departure, she was a very faithful
Latter-day Saint and a faithful wife and mother.
					L, C. GARDNER.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The first conference of the Relief Soci-
ety of the new Salt Lake Stake of Zion
was held in the 14th ward meeting-house
Sat. Sept. 24, 1904, the morning session
commencing at 10:30 a m., the afternoon
session at 2: p. m., Pres. Clarissa S. Will-
iams presiding.
	There was a large attendance at each 
session and a most interesting program was
carried out. Pres. Bathsbeba W. Smith,
Sec. Emmeline B. Wells, Sisters Alice
Merrill Horne, of the General Board of
Relief Society, Pres. Edward T. Ashton,
Sister Clara C. Cannon and other distin-
guished visitors were present.
	Reports were made by the several ward
Presidents of the Stake who reported all the
branches as being in excellent condition.
All were working harmoniously and united-
ly in their efforts in looking after and re-
lieving the poor, needy and the sick.
	Pres. Edward T. Ashton spoke most en-
couragingly of the work being done by the
Sisters of the Relief Society. He thought
they were doing a most noble work and
would surely be blessed in their labors.
Asked God’s blessing upon all.
	Pres. Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of the
organization of the first Relief Society by
the Prophet Joseph Smith with but 18
members, she being the only surviving
one of that number—this being the
Relief Society that was organized in Nau-
voo. Said it is a great thing to receive the
blessing of a poor, honest person to whom
we have done some little kindness. The
Lord will bless us in all we do for those less
fortunate than we are, and we will receive
ten fold for all we give to those who are in
need and for helping the sick.
	Sec. Emmeline B. Wells spoke of the
great work the Relief Society is accom-
plishing all over the world. She asked the
Sisters not to think that they are being
overworked. We may all feel like we have
enough to do already, but we should res-
pond to any call made of us by the Priest-
hood. She closed by repeating the quota-
tion, “The sun never sets on the Relief
Society.”

[Column 2]
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne told of some
of her experiences while abroad recently at
tending the International Congress of Wo-
men held in Berlin. There were 25 different
councils met there and were made up of in-
telligent women. She found the women
anxious to learn of Utah and her people.
	Pres. Clarissa S. Williams made a verbal
report of the work in general that had been
accomplished since our organization. She
said a conference would be held in each
ward of our Stake one Sunday evening of
each year for the purpose of presenting the
work that is being done by the Sisters of
the Relief Society to the people of the dif-
ferent wards that the purpose of the work
may be better known. Asked that these
conferences be the best meetings of the
year. Dates would be arranged so as to
give the Stake officers an opportunity to
visit each conference. The Bishopric
would be consulted as to which dates would
be best.
	Sisters Mary Katz, Annie Brown and
daughter and little Annie Walsh favored all
present with beautiful singing.
	One pleasant feature of the conference
was had at the close of the morning session
when all participated in a luncheon which
was served by a committee chosen from all
the ward branches of the Relief Society.
	Another pleasing feature was the organi-
zation of a Stake Relief Society choir with
Sisters Emily Lewis as chorister, and Lelia
Timpson as organist.
	Pres. Williams stated that we would hold
but two conferences each year the dates not
yet being definitely decided upon.
	MARTHA P. SMITH, Stake Secretary.

		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of Liberty
Stake convened Sept. 3, 1904, in the sec-
ond ward meeting house, Salt Lake City,
at 10 a. m. President Annie S. Musser pre-
siding, and all the members of stake board
being present also General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Counselor Annie T.
Hyde. Meeting opened by singing “Re-
deemer of Israel etc.” Prayer by Sister
Frances M. Smith. Singing, “How Firm
a Foundation etc.” Roll called each ward
responding. Minutes of previous confer-
ence, also the statistical and financial report
read and approved.
	A verbal report was given of all the
wards in the stake, by the respective presi-
dents, all were prospering and in the line
of their duty.
	President Musser welcomed the sisters,
and introduced President B. W. Smith who
spoke on Temple work, and related many
incidents in the early history of the church.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was pleased
with the good reports given, urged the sist-
ers to continue the lectures, and sustain the
authorities by faith and prayers.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke on the dut-
ies of teachers, we must be humble, prayer-
ful and united, and strive to do right.
	Closed by singing “Praise to the Man
etc.,” after which prayer was offered by
Sister Sarah Chamberlain.
	Afternoon session: Conference reconven-
ed at 2 o’clock, President B. W. Smith,
Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Secretary
Emmeline B. Wells of the General Gfficers
and S. J. Cannon, E. Webb, L. W. Kimb-
all and E. J. Stevenson, being present.
Singing, “Now let us Rejoice, etc.”
Prayer by Sister Elizabeth Webb, contin


ued by singing, “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet, etc.” President Smith again
addressed the sisters, and said let our works
be works of righteousness, and gave many
good instructions. Sister Emmeline B. Wells
gave a short lecture on the subject of
“Peace” and felt through the efforts of
woman a better condition of things could
be effected.
	Counselor Z. J. Eardley presented the
names of the general board also the names
of the officers of Liberty Stake all were un-
animously sustained. 
	Sister Maggie Hull favored us with a
solo. Sister Sarah J. J. Cannon member of
the General Board exhorted us, to do all
the good we could and search out the
worthy poor, made many excellent sugges-
tions, referred to some of President George
Q. Cannon’s views on peace.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said if we were
true followers of Christ, in the true sense
of the word, we would be advocates for
peace all the time, try and carry a peaceful
influence with us, and we would be the
means of doing much good, also spoke about
the nurses class.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball gave the sisters
some very good advice. Sister Elizabeth
Webb thought it our duty to assist the young
to keep in the straight and narrow path, and
do good at all times.
	Sister Hull favored us with another solo.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success.
Adjourned for three months. Singing
“Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere Desire.” Ben-
ediction by Counselor Mary E. Hodgson.
	LIZZIE ROBBINS, Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CLOSE OF BERLIN MEETINGS
Mrs. Ida H. Harper writes:
	It was a fitting culmination of the most
remarkable Congress of Women ever held
that it should close with an official recep-
tion by the burgermeister and Municipal
Council of Berlin, capital of the vast and
powerful German Empire.
	The Rath-Haus, or town hall, is one of
the many imposing edifices for which this
city is noted, and was honestly built in
1861-70, at a cost of 10,000,000 marks. Its
tower is 243 feet in hight, and the inter-
ior is rich with paintings, sculpture, and
decorations such as are not found in any
building in the United States. The broad
marble staircase was so banked with
palms and flowers as to have the appear-
ance of a garden on either side. At the
top is a lofty and spacious hall with many
marble columns, and in the centre a large
fountain surrounded by blooming and aqu-
atic plants. Near this, with the ladies of
the Berlin Council Committee, stood the
Board of Magistrates, with heavy gold
chains and medals about their necks, to ex-
tend a cordial welcome to the guests. The
latter numbered 600—visitors to the Con-
gress and prominent men and women of
Berlin—and after the invitations were is-
sued, no pressure could secure one addi-
tional, so rigid and systematic are the re-
strictions which prevail here in everything.
At nine o’clock the magnifieent banquet
hall—the Fest Saal—was thrown open,
showing tables far more richly decorated
than would be possible in our White House.
The marble pillars, coffered ceiling, carved
oak doors, richly panelled walls, beautiful
chandeliers, paintings and statuary, made
a picture not to be forgotten.

[Column 2]
	The toasts were the significant feature of
the evening. It was not a slight and irre-
levant circumstance that a burgermeister of
Berlin, an official of high rank, elected for
twelve years, should for the first time in
all history welcome a gathering of women
in the town hall of the city. Nor was this
a perfunctory and meaningless function,
for standing in the place of honor, with dis-
tinguished women from all parts of the
globe on either side of him, he said, in the
course of an extended speech:
	“Who can fail to recognize the fact that
the women’s movement of today, pressing
forward with the might of an elementary
force, contains a sound and valuable foun-
dation, that it ushers in a significant and
promising epoch in the development of the
human race? That this fact is recognized—
willingly and joyfully recognized—among
the men of this city, let this festivity this
evening bear witness to the women. And
so, in behalf of the municipal authorities of
Berlin, I welcome the members of the Inter-
national Woman’s Congress with all my
heart as co-workers for the welfare of hu-
manity in the sphere of public life. May
all the hopes that the women themselves
attach to this movement be completely real-
ized, and may their co-operation bear rich
and abundant fruit!”
	Burgermeister Kirschner was followed by
Dr. Langerhaus, president of the Board of
Magistrates, or aldermen, and for many
years a member of the Prussian House of
Deputies. He made a most progressive ad-
dress in which he used these unmistakable
words:
	“We fully support your efforts for justice
and we gladly take our stand in favor of
equal rights for women and men. . . .
Rest assured that we have followed your
proceedings wilh the greatest interest, and
that we will cheerfully support you
till you have attained your goal of equal
rights for men and women.”
	At the close of each of these addresses
the whole company sprang to their feet
with uplifted glasses and cries of “Hoch!
hoch!” whose fervor never can be under-
stood till one has heard them given by an
audience of Germans. And then in this
great hall, one woman after another lifted
to a chair that they might be seen and heard
expressed their appreciation of the welcome
extended by Germany to the Congress and
its ideas, and voiced their determination
never to cease their efforts till all that they
stood for had been attained; and not a dis-
senting opinion was evoked from all the
throng of listeners.
	Twice has this International Council been
held in our country, and during past years
many other large meetings have called
there the distinguished women of the
world. Never have they received such
official recognition from any city in which
their conventions have been held.
	This International Council and Congress
have demonstrated in a high degree the
wonderful organizing ability of German
women, as the arrangements were entirely
in their hands. It was a wholly new ex-
perience for them, but they put into it the
same system and thoroughness with which
for generations they have managed their
households, and the German “hausfrau”
is noted among the women of all nations
The Philharmonie, where the meetings
were held, is one of the largest music halls
in the world, and has under one roof four
great audience rooms, besides many others
for various purposes. It was turned over

[Column 3]
to the Berlin Committee of eleven women
just three days before the Congress was to
open, and at once they put a hundred peo-
ple at work. Temporary partitions were
made wherever needed, and thus long cor-
ridors and bare apartments were trans-
formed into art galleries, drawing-rooms,
cafes, tea-rooms, writing rooms, rest-rooms,
etc. Paint was used where it seemed
necessary, draperies, tapestries, and pic-
tures were hung, the platforms were banked
with flowers, the court was transformed
into a garden, and the long entrance porti-
coes into a bower of evergreens. Tables
were provided in each of the four halls for
fifty reporters, and they were present at
most of the meetings. A large room was
equipped with every facility for their send-
ing off reports, including telephone and
telegraph. The government itself estab-
lished a branch post office in the lobby.
Not a detail was omitted which would add
to comfort or convenience, and all this
splendid arrangement was the work of
women, and so perfectly planned that it
could be carried to completion in three
days.
	The program book itself was a marvel, a
pasteboard covered volume of 140 pages,
well indexed. It opened with a brief his-
tory of the Council, what it expected to do,
and a comprehensive introduction to the
various departments which the congress
would consider—education, industries and
professions, charities and philanthropies,
laws, etc. These were followed by the
names of officers, committees, delegates,
and speakers, by countries and alphabetic-
ally; the constitution, by-laws, new amend.
ments proposed, report of last executive
meeting, the full program for every hour,
and a plat and guide for the intricacies of
Philharmonie Hall. Then came the day,
date and directions for all the social enter-
tainments; list of the arts and crafts exhib-
its and the various public institutions which
would be open to the visitors; the addresses
of all the embassies and consulate; location
of the various churches; the galleries and
museums, with hours of admission, the
monuments, open-air gardens and exhibi-
tions, the art shops, the high schools, the
theatres, the popular excursions. Next
were names of hotels, pensions and restaur-
ants which were vouched for; then of
women doctors and dentists; also the street
and number for baths and hairdressers,
steamship offices and railroad stations, lost
and found bureaus, police stations and
emergency hospitals, the legal rate for car-
riage hire, and lastly an excellent map of
Berlin. Really, it seemed to be the most
complete thing of the kind ever issued.
	Before the Congress opened, 2,500 season
tickets had been sold at six marks, (about
$1.50) and hundreds of day tickets were
purchased at two marks. There were over
fifty ushers, all young women from the
high schools under the direction of Fraulein
Alice Salomon, a graduate of Berlin Uni-
versity. Four meetings were in session at
the time in the different rooms, people
going from one to the other, between
speeches, to hear those in whom they were
especially interested, but all was quiet and
orderly. The discipline which one sees
everywhere in Germany was evident here,
and there was never any talking or confu-
sion in the back part of the ball. The ses-
sions began in the morning at nine o’clock
and lasted till half past one or two, and
from eight until ten or eleven in the eve-
ning. Whether the men thought they


[Column 1]
were not wanted, or whether they did not
desire to come, they certainly were not in
evidence, but how the women did swarm
into those halls! Morning and evening,
day after day, young and old, pretty and
homely, well gowned and badly dressed,
eager, alert, hungering and thirsting, ap-
proving with cries of “So, so,” or dissent-
with “Nein, nein,” and rising en masse
when greatly pleased—such an interested,
appreciative, inspiring audience!
	There never was anything like it in
Germany before. There have been, indeed,
but few public meetings here, but it seemed
as if the German women had been ponder-
ing over these questions in their hearts for
many years, and now they were ready to
give them expression. This is not a peo-
ple of fads, quick, spontaneous, superficial
as Americans are apt to be, but slow, con-
servative, philosophical, and speaking at
last with well digested and substantial
thought. That this Council of Women has
stirred Germany, and especialiy Berlin, to
its depths, cannot be doubted by those who
have followed the press comments and
watched the developments of the past weeks.
Nor can it be doubted that its results will
be far-reaching and permanent, for the very
reason that the foundation has been so long
in building. The German women are now
thoroughly organized, they have learned
their power, they have received the recog-
nition of their government, and never again
will they drop back into the subordinate
place which for ages they have been taught
it was divinely ordained they should occu
py. A generation ago the German Empire
was born, and it has made greater progress
in the last thirty years than in all the cen-
turies which preceded, but it has been princi-
pally of a military and commercial charact-
er. The time is now propitious for the
finer and more spiritual force of woman-
hood to make itself felt, and some day in
the future Germany will inscribe another
date on the monuments which record its
achievements—June, 1904—the date which
marked the founding of a new dynasty for
the women of the nation.
	And now the International Congress is a
memory—a recollection of warm, sunny
days, with scarcely a cloud in the sky, of
mornings filled with earnest work and in-
tellectual stimulus; of afternoons in lovely
gardens, with the tea tables under the trees
and the groups of interesting men and
women gathered about them; of new friend-
ships formed and new thought absorbed; of
fresh hope and courage inspired by the
knowledge that throughout all countries
life is growing brighter for women, and
they are striving to make conditions bright-
er for women, and they are striving to
make conditions better for all mankind.
Such beautiful memories we shall carry
home across the seal and with them will
be the remembrance of the splendid city of
Berlin, with its miles of magnificent build-
ings, strong, solid, enduring—emblematic
of the German character. There is not a
city in America which can approach it in
beauty, in order, in cleanliness. We have
but few public buildings which equal those

[Column 2]
of Berlin. There are more large parks
here than in all the cities of the United
States combined, and we have no fountains
which can compare with any one of a dozen
here; all of our statues together fall below
those in this one city in number, and far
below them in artistic merit. Our art col-
lections and museums are not to be men-
tioned in comparison, and we have nothing
which approaches in historic interest these
old palaces and castles.
	There are miles of apartment houses
here but instead of American monstrosities
every story has its overhanging balconies,
filled with bright blossoms and trailing
vines; there is scarcely an individual house
set on a line with the street, but all have
beautiful gardens in front, so that the whole
city looks like a vast conservatory of flow-
ers Through its very centre run both the
canal and the river Spree, but instead of a
disfigurement they are a distinct addition to
its beauty, for extending along either side
are grassy parks with great trees reaching
out over the water, while every bridge that
crosses is embellished with statues and bal-
ustrades and made an ornament to the
street. The elevated trains run over miles
of fine stone arches, with practically no
noise, and each station is surrounded with
a little park with trees and shrubs. On
these and the electric cars the fare is two
cents. No building is more than five stor-
ies in height, and there is not a shadow of
smoke over the entire city. The streets
everywhere are spotless, not a vestige of
dirt or litter, and yet Berlin is a city of
2,500,000 inhabitants. It has no slums and
even its poverty is clean. There is never a
suspicion of scandal attached to its municip-
al government, which is looked upon as
absolutely incorruptible
	And yet, and yet—what is this indefin-
able chill which seems constantly to envelop
one which compels him to speak low and
walk circumspectly? It is that ever pres-
ent and all-permeating military discipline.
Every particle of spontaneity is trained out
of the children, and as soon as the boys are
grown they are put into the army. The
rigid obedience to authority there instilled
goes with them through life and is appar-
ent in every calling. The result is a defer-
ence of each class to the one above it, and,
alas! the inability of any member of it to
rise above the sphere into which he was
born. But when the German goes into the

[Column 3]
United States and into their unattractive
and badly governed towns and cities, he
finds there a freedom of speech, a liberty of
action an opportunity for the individual de-
velopment of himself and his children,
worth far more to him than even the beauty
and historic associations of his fatherland,
and he seldom wishes to leave the new life
and go back to the old. So we women of
America, seeing clearly the superiority of
European cities in countless things, and
realizing fully the imperfections of our own
government, nevertheless believe that it
holds far more of promise for us and those
we love than any other.
				Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
OBSTETRICS

Dr. Margaret G. Roberts
	Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics on Monday, October 10, 1904. This
class will also have the advantage of at-
tending the RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
CLASS taught by Dr. Roberts. For fur-
ther information, communicate with Dr.
Roberts, 79 C Street. Telephone 2002.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.						TRY US


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
	stetrics on Monday, Oct 10, 1904, at
	her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake
	City. Those desiring to attend will
	please communicate personally or by
	letter. This class recommended by the
	General Board of the Relief Society.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit marritd
	women and also children who are minors,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No 1 Main Street.


CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
					AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing October 10, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


MRS. EMILY EVERETT, who died in Cam-
bridge, Sept. 23, was, as far as known, the
oldest person in the city. She was aged
105 years, 7 months and 19 days. She was
born in Haverhill, Mass., on Feb. 4, 1799,
and lived in three centuries Mrs. Everett
was the daughter of Rev. Abiel Abbot,
D. D. For several years she lived in Hal-
lowell, Me., Beverly, and Dorchester. She
took up her residence in Cambridge, in
1745. W. A. Everett is the only surviving
member of the family.
	MRS. EMELINE M. NORTH, of San Fran-
cisco, who has been invited to speak at the
International Educational Congress which
meets in Paris, has the reputation of being
an accomplished linguist. She speaks, it
is said, all the languages of the civilized
world, and is now studying Chinese.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

