Vol. 33					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1905.						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
Grace Grant’s Trip Through Foreign Countries	57
Program for Utah Society Daughter of the
	Revolution- 1905-1906..............................	58
Relief Society Organized...................................	58
D. R’S. Honor Washington's Birthday...............	59
Todenfest....................................Lydia D. Alder	59
EDITORIAL:- A. Golden Wedding...................	60
A Relief Society Social......................................	60
Miss Anthony on Polygamy................. A. S. B.	60
Relief Society Reports........................................	61
Mothers’ Work....................................................	61
In Memoriam......................................................	63
Mrs. Gilman on Pure Air....................................	63
The Statute of Miss Willard...............................	64
Advanced Russia.................................. A. S. B.	64
POETRY:- America-Washington- On the Des-
	ert...............................................................	57
	Betsy Ross and the Flag.............................	59
	To the Relief Society Sisters......................	63


AMERICA—WASHINGTON.
America! fair land of Freedom’s sires!
Alas! how low doth burn the brilliant fires
Enkindled long ago! when Washington
By heav’n inspired, true, loyal hearts led on
To fight and nobly die in freedom’s cause,
And for this new-born land make righteous laws.
Oh Washington! nor patriot so true—
Our countrys’ tender father! unto you
We give all honor due; this natal day
Commemorate thine honored name and pray
That God for us perpetuate thy birth,
And send another just like thee to earth.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	Feb. 22, 1905.


ON THE DESERT.
		BY LOUISE COULSON.
	Out on the desert, God’s broad plain,
	Stretching away toward the setting sun,
	With lightning speed the roaring train
	Bears the weary traveler on and on
	To that sweet goal where love’s dear race
		is won.
	Out on the desert, sweet breezes blow,
	Caressing the eyes, the lips and brow,
	And over all, around the sunset’s glow,
	Gathers a mantle of mist and anow.
	Out on the desert, thou art not alone,
	God's angels hover o'er thy wandering way,
	And faith and hope that leads today,
	And brightens the night the long lone way.
	Oh, out on the desert of life's high-way,
	Borne on and on by the tide of fate,
	Past the green and gold on Nature's plain
	Till we meet again at the welcome gate.
	That opens to the hearts that love and wait.
Butte City, Montana, Sept, 1st, 1900.


[Column 1]
GRACE GRANTS TRIP THROUGH FOREIGN
			COUNTRIES.
Dear Grandma Grant:
	Papa has asked me to write you a letter
all about our trip to Scandinavia
	We left here on the 20th of July, and
the first night we had to cross the North
Sea. The boat was so crowded that we
couldn’t get berths, and so had to sit up all
night, The next morning we got off at the

[Column 2]
Hook of Holland and took a train for Rot-
terdam. We were all so sleepy that we
went to sleep and rode right through the
city. As it was a fast train we had to ride
two hours and a half before the train
stopped. When it did stop they put us on
the right train and sent us back. We
didn’t have to pay a cent for the extra ride
and saw lots of Holland and Germany
which we would not have seen otherwise.
	We got back to Rotterdam about eleven
o’clock instead of six, and as we had
missed our train we had to stay there all
day. We took a train for Berlin about
seven that evening. We were on the train
all night, and as it wasn’t a sleeping car
we didn’t get much rest. We arrived in
Berlin the next morning and were met by
an Elder. We started right out to see the
city, going first to the Kaiser’s church.
This is a beautiful building both inside and
out  As it was Sunday, they were having
services there, and so we didn’t stay very
long. We then went out to Charlottenberg
and visited the mausoleum where the tombs
of some of the German knights and queens
are. Just as you enter the building there is
a statue representing the Angel of Death.
There is a large blue skylight, and as that
is the only light in the building everything
looks very dismal. There are four large
tombs there, and they are all lovely, but my
favorite was the one of Queen Louise. They
are all pure white marble and there is a life
sized statue of the person who is in the
tomb on top of each one.
	That evening we went out to the princi-
pal part of the city and saw a number of
pretty places We went to the Reichstag,
capital building, and it is one of the pretti
est buildings I ever saw. In front of it are
some fountains and a statue of Bismarck.
Then we went to the Victory monument,
which I like better than any monument I
have ever seen. It is in memory of the
victories won over the French. We walked
from here down the Victory Avenue. This
is a beautiful street, having statues of the
rulers of Germany from 1100 up to the pres-
ent time. The statues are not very pictur-
esque, but very interesting. We went next
to the Wagner monument This is also a
very pretty monument, being a statue of
Wagner surrounded by figures representing
his four greatest operas. Then we went to
the Thier Gardens, and stayed their until
after ten listening to the music. The mus-
ic in Germany is the loveliest I have ever
heard. You hear a band almost everywhere
you go and they are all very good ones.
	The next morning we went first to the
Kaiser’s palace, which was very beautiful,
but overladen with gold and silver. The
bed, bed room and prayer room of Freder-
ick the Great are there. The prettiest room
is the large senate room, where the Senators
met before going to the Reichstag. This
room is also used for a banquet hall.
	Then we went to the Zeug Haus, which
is a large building full of war paintings,
instruments of war, old flags, etc. It was
very interesting.
	Then we went to the Royal stables, and
think the building is much too pretty to

[Column 3]
be used for a stable. There were hundreds
of horses and carriages which were all very
beautiful, but only for show. I don’t sup-
pose many of them are used once in a life-
time.
	From there we walked up the noted street,
Under den Linden. I was dlsappointed in
this street, as I had heard so much about it
and was expecting more than I got The
trees look like they have just been put in
lately, and are too small to give as much
shade as is necessary to make it real pleas-
ant. At the top of this street is anarch
that was at one lime the gate to a wall. On
top of this arch is a bronze chariot that rep-
resents victory. This chariot was captured
by the French some years ago and placed on
the Triumphal Arch in Paris but was later
taken back to Germany.
	Next we went to the panorama and saw
the destruction of Port Arthur and a regu-
lar battle on the sea. There were about
twelve little war vessels about ten or twelve
feet long. They were built just like war
ships, and so we got a pretty good idea of
naval battles.
	From there we got a car and took a love-
ly car ride through Grunewald, green forest,
which is the principal residence part of the
city. It is very pretty out there, and there
are some lovely homes. On our way back
we stopped at the Terrassen an Halensee,
which is a large building built in the Egyp-
tian style. It is real odd, but pretty, and
is a sort of a summer resort. The building
is used for a restaurant, the gardens are
lovely and there is a large bathing pond
near.
	The next day we went to the art galler-
es. First we went to the new art gallery,
which is very nice and has some lovely
pictures in it. Then we went to the old
one which has mostly all statues in, there
wasn’t much to it, and I thought most of
the statues were hideous.
	Then we went to the largest store in Ger-
many. It was a lovely store and I saw lots
of things which I wouldn’t have minded
having, but of course I couldn’t have
everything I wanted, and so I didn’t buy
anything.
	Next we went to the Art Exhibit. Most
of the pictures there were the new art, and
liked some of them very much. They
had rooms furnished in the new art furni-
ture, and they were very interesting and
pretty. I like the new art very much,
especially the furniture and jewelry.
	The next day we went to Dresden and
spent the day. We were most of the time
in the art galleries and they are the finest I
have seen at all. There are a great many
noted pictures in these galleries and nearly
every picture there is a perfect gem.
	After leaving there we went out to the
snmmer residence of the King of Saxony
It is built on the Japanese style and is very 
odd, but picturesque. The gardens around
it are just lovely.
	We didn’t get back to Berlin until after
ten that night and left early toe next morn-
ing for Copenhagen. We went from Berlin
to Copenhagen, part way by boat a[-]d part
by train, arriving there about seven o’clock


[Column 1]
that evening. The next day we started out
to see the sights of Copenhagen, which
were not many. First we went to the Art
Gallery, but as it wasn’t very large and had
no noted pictures in, we didn’t stay very
long. Then we went to Thorvaldsen’s
Museum. This was very interesting and
all the sculpture work there was done by
Thorvaldsen. There are some very beauti-
ful statues in it.
	That afternoon we went to the Zoologi-
cal Gardens where I saw lots of animals
which I have heard and read about, but
that I have never seen before. Then we
walked through some real pretty parks back
to the hotel. I suppose you know there
is not so much to see in Copenhagen as in
Berlin.
	The next day we went to another pretty
park and the harbor, and then to a large
forest near the sea shore. We passed the
King of Denmark’s palace, but as visitors
were not being admitted then, we could not
go through it. We took a boat that even-
for Malmo and from there we took a train
for Stockholm. We arrived in Stockholm
the next morning. We had a sleeping car.
The first I have seen over here, and they
are nothing to compare with the ones at
home, but much better than sitting up all
night.
	This afternoon we went through the
king’s palace, and it was real nice. There
is a museum there of old costumes and I
never saw such funny dresses in my life as
saw there. The guest’s rooms were love-
ly and I wouldn’t mind being a guest there
myself.
	That evening after meeting we took a
walk through some of the parks. Stock-
holm is a very beautiful city, and has the
loveliest location of any city I have seen.
You can’t go anywhere without crossing
bridges or taking ferry boats. It is called
the Venice of the North.
	The next day we went first up on an ele-
vator and got a lovely view of the city, and
then we went through an old church where
some of the kings and queens of Sweden
are buried. It was a very dismal place.
Then we took a ride around the city and
saw the residences, which were all real
pretty. Then we went to the north mu-
seum, which was very interesting. It is
full of old costumes, furniture, kettles, etc.,
like are used in some of the country parts
of Sweden at present. From there we took
a boat and went around one of the islands;
it is the prettiest boat ride I have ever had.
Both shores were covered with forests and
the water was very smooth, so it made a
beautiful sight.
	The next day we went to the National
Museum which is full of pictures, and stat-
ues. There were no noted pictures, but
some very fine work.
	That afternoon we went out to the king’s
summer palace, which is on one of the
islands not far from the city. We went
through the palace and walked around the
grounds. I liked the palace very much but
I liked the grounds better.
	We left Stockholm the next morning for
Gothenburg. We were on the boat three
days, and although the scenery was perfect-
ly lovely, it was the same thing over and
over, and so soon became tiresome. We
all got sea sick the second day while on one
of the big lakes. We saw some falls which
are said to be next to Niagara, but I don’t
think the two can be compared. Maybe it
is because Niagara is in America.
	There wasn’t anything to see in Gothen-

[Column 2]
burg but the parks and a forest, so after we
had seen those we didn’t have much to do,
so sat around the hotel and went for little
walks
	We left Gothenburg Tuesday morning
and arrived in Christiania about three
o’clock that afternoon. That evening we
went to one of the parks and heard a real
good orchestra.
	We spent most of the next day on one of
the mountains near the city and it is one of
the prettiest places I have ever seen. We
walked to the top of the mountain where we
got an excellent view of the city.
	The next day we visited one of the pal-
aces and went to the oldest Christian church
in Norway. It is the funniest little build-
ing I have ever seen and just as dark as pitch
inside. It rained the next day, so we
didn’t go anywhere in the morning, but in
the afternoon we went to the Art gallery.
They were moving from one building to
another, so we didn’t see much. There is
a shed near the museum and in it is one of
the old Viking ships which was dug out of
the clay on the seashore. It is almost “gone
up the spout,’’ but is still very interesting.
	The next morning we took the tourist
boat and rode around for two hours and a
half on the Christiania Fjord and it was a
lovely ride. Then for a change we went to
another park and got another view of the
city, but it was not a very clear day, and so
the view was not as good as some we had
had.
	The next day was Sunday, and so we
didn’t do a thing but go to meeting, and
the next day we left for home. We went
home by way of Copenhagen, Kiel, Ham-
burg and Rotterdam, but didn’t stay in any
one place long enough to see anything. We
saw a lot of German battle ships in the
Kiel harbor, and I never saw such enorm-
ous things in my life. We were all deathly
sick crossing the North Sea. We left papa
at Christiania and he had another three day
water trip before him, so we all thought of
him while sea sick and felt sorry for him.
	We got home on the 25th of August,
just in time to rush down to the landing
stage and see Brother Robinson and Laura
Foster off. We were very glad to get here
in time to say good by to them.
	We were all very glad to get home, and
only wished we could have brought papa
with us.
	Well, all the news is told, so I will close
with lots of love to all, especially yourself.
	From your loving granddaughter Grace.
Liverpool, England, Oct. 10, 1904.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


PROGRAM FOR UTAH SOCIETY DAUGH-
TERS OF THE REVOLUTION—1905-1906.
	March 16th—Gen. Schuyler, Catherine
Wells; Gen. Montgomery, Mary A. H. Can-
non. Dlscussion.
	April 16th—Gen. Richard Henry Lee,
Emily H. C. Willey; Gen. Lincoln, Emily
Y. Clawson. Discussion.
	May 16—Gen. Ethan Allen, Diana Rich;
Gen. Mercer, Ann Lyman King. Discus-
sion.
	September 16—Gen. Stark, Julia P. M.
Farnsworth; Dr. Joseph Warren, Phebe Y.
Beatie. Discussion.
	October 16th—Gen. Putnam, Mary Ly-
man Gowans; Gen. Joseph Spencer, Mira
Y. Rossiter. Discussion.
	November 16th—Patrick Henry, Emmeline


B. Wells; Gen. Heath, Lucy S. W. Smith.
Discussion.
	December 16th—Gen. Knox, Clarissa Y.
Spencer John Hancock, Carol Y. Cannon.
Discussion.
	January 16th—Robert Morris, Julia A. F.
Lund; Gen. George Clinton, Elizabeth R.
Wright. Discussion.
	February 16th—Gen Morgan, Almira De
Wolfe; Gen Ward, Maria Y. Dougall. Dis-
cussion


RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.
RELIEF SOCIETY OF LEIPZIG AND REPORT
		OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	By invitation of Chas. J. Thomas, presi-
ding: Elder of Leipzig Branch, the sisters
met in the L. D. S. hall, no. 2 Universitat
Str. on Sunday, August 28, 1904, to con-
sider the subject of the organization of a Re-
lief Society. After singing and prayer,
Elder Thomas moved and Pres. Benson
seconded the motion that Sister Alder be
temporary chairman. Brother Franz Schulze
was elected secretary. Sister Alder stated
the object of the meeting to be the advisa-
bility of organizing a Relief Society. It was
moved by Elder Geo. A. Alder to have a
Relief Society. Elder Thomas seconded the
motion. It was unanimously voted that an
organization be effected. Elder Thomas
moved that Sister Selma Gunther be presi-
dent. Elder Alder seconded the motion,
As first counselor Sister Maria Kretschmor
was elected and as second counselor Sister
Ida Loffler was elected. Emma Homberger
was elected secretary and Lydia Piusch
treasurer. Frederieke Poitz, Marie Hiller,
Louie Wolf and Auguste Low were chosen
teachers. These sisters were all set apart
for their various offices, by the following
brethren, Alder, Benson, Schulze, and
Thomas.
	President Gunther took the chair by re-
quest of Elder Thomas, Sister Alder gave
them instructions in regard to their duties
as officers and members and spoke of the
first organization in Nauvoo. Sister Gun-
ther called an officers’ meeting the following
evening at the house of Sister Hausdorf for
the purpose of further instructions. On
motion, meeting was adjourned to time and
place specified. Benediction was offered by
Brother Friedrich Gunther;
			RICHARD D. ANDREWS.


Lady Henry Somerset will be a guest at
the annual meeting of the W. C. T. U. to
be held at Portland, next October.
	Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman has sailed
for Europe, where she has engagements to
lecture in London, Berlin and elsewhere.
	The Kansas House of Representatives,by
a vote of 65 to 49, has passed a bill to allow
women to vote for presidential electors.
	Queen Wilhelmina of Holland is making
money by selling milk and butter. As a 
child Wilhelmina kept chickens. She fed
them, and incidentally made pocket-money
out of them.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony celebrated her
eighty-fifth birthday in Rochester, N. Y.,
on Feb. 15. She received greetings from
Finland, Switzerland, Holland, Austria,
Germany, Australia, South America. Mex-
ico, and from all parts of the United States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BETSY ROSS AND THE FLAG.	
	BY SUSA YOUNG GATES.
’Twas a woman that made the lovely flag—
	A woman with soul divine,
The man may have thought, but the woman
		wrought,
	The cover for liberty’s shrine.
The sun had risen, and the sun had set,
	On our flag with the English cross;
When the thirteen bars and the thirteen stars,
	Were fashioned by Betsy Ross.
For the dragon and cross surmounted a crown,
	And freedom was but a story,
When the breeze unfurled to a saddened world
	The flag with its dear-bought glory.
On the high seas first, the flag flashed out
	Its welcome challenge for peace.
Paul Jones sailed faster than England’s dis-
		aster,
	To win America’s release.
Then out from each fortress and seaport town,
	There gleamed the flag with its stars.
The mountains and vales, the hills and dales
	Were bright with its crimson bars.
O, red was the blood that was shed for you,
	But white was the pure desire,
And in heaven’s own hue, the stars shone
		through,
	And kindled sweet liberty’s fire.
So, up with the splendid stars and stripes,
	There’s a gain for every loss.
Honor the men who fought, and the women
		who wrought
	And honor brave Betsy Ross.


D. R’S. HONOR WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.
One of the most delightful social and
patriotic events of the season was at the
home of Bishop and Mrs. W. J. Beatie on the
evening of Washington’s Birthday. As
State Regent, Mrs. Beatie entertained the
Utah Society Daughters of the Revolution.
The beautiful home was elaborately deco-
rated with the Society colors, flags and
pictures. Excellent music was furnished
by some of the state’s best artists, Miss
Ceceila Sharp, Hugh Dougall and George
D. Pyper. Mrs. Julia A. Farnsworth-
Lund gave a paper for the U. S. S. D. R.,
acknowledging the veneration of the Daugh-
ters for the great founders of the nation
and the state; also the debt of gratitude the
Utah Society owes to its organizers, Mrs.
Susa Y. Gates and Mrs. E. B. Wells. Judge
William H. King, in his usual artistic
style, delivered a most learned and able ad-
dress upon the subject of Government. Dr.
E. S. Wright graciously responded with a
humorous recitation. Apostle George A.
Smith expressed patriotic sentiments with
his usual enthusiasm. Delicious refresh-
ments were served.
J. P. M. F.


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
cluded in stakes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare complete annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of March, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.—Address Mrs. E. B. Wells.


[Column 1]
		TODENFEST.
	Todenfest is a remembrance day of the
dead, and was observed on Sunday, No-
vember 20, 1904, in the customary way in
Saxony. The cemeteries were thronged
from early morning until the shades of even-
ing hid them from view. The New Cem-
etery (as it is called, though quite an old
one,) in Leipsic was most beautifully dec-
orated. On almost every grave floral of-
ferings, many of them large, costly
wreaths. None are admitted here for bu-
rial, only members of families who already
own the ground.
	It covers quite a large area, and is laid
out in divisions, separated by thick stone
walls.
	In one of these divisions is quite a large
plot, wherein are interred a number of
French soldiers who fought under Napo-
leon in 1813, and sixty-five prisoners of
the war of 1870-71, and opposite to it one
of equal size where are German soldiers
who fell in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-
71. A large monument in the center,
enclosed by iron rails and chains, gives
their names and designates their calling.
The plot is enclosed by iron chains passing
through stone posts, and has two entrances,
the posts on either side formed as a cannon,
gilt bands, lettered, twined around them,
and gilt spikes at the mouth, representing
the cannon's fire, while at the base of each
are a number of cannon balls, some large
others small. On these graves are some
flowers, and a number of head plates.
Among the ivy, on one of them, under an
oval raised glass cover, are two hands
clasped together.
	How strangely one feels, to see them
there, down among the ivy! Throngs of
visitors come and go through, looking at
the graves and reading what is on the mon-
uments.
	The French graves are without a flower;
a single wreath, French colors showing
through it, hangs on the center monument,
while at the base of the other monument is
a metal plate placed there by the French
society, which states that “here are en-
tombed a number of French soldiers of the
war of 1813.” How desolate they look,
the heavy iron chain surrounding them, in
its stone posts, and no entrance for visitors!
Alone, though people are all around them,
and the graves on either hand so profusely
decorated that they have the appearance of
a sea of flowers!
	But they are far away from sunny France
—far from her vine-clad hills, buried here
among hostile strangers. Are they forgot-
ten because these multitudes pass them
coldly by, or speak of them as the French?
No! far away, tears have fallen, hearts have
broken, because they who marched so gal-
lantly to war, returned not again, but laid
down in a foreign land to die.
	But these graves, as the others, are well
kept, and covered with thick ivy (which is
trained all over the graves in this land, in-
stead of grass). In one corner a small
monument tells of the officers interred
here.
	Hundreds of people are thronging the
wide, white walks and roaming among the
graves. Here and there is the grave of one
newly dead, and they are elaborate affairs,
about five feet high and two long, covered
with palm leaves, evergreens, flowers,
wreaths and wide ribbon sashes of various
hues, and in them mottoes or inscriptions
in gold letters. How much is expended on

[Column 2]
the German graves! Beyond the white
walks are trees, shrubs and flowers. Now,
as winter is approaching, the nice head-
stones are covered by means of heavy
wooden slides, made to fit them, so that
they are protected from the inclemency of
the weather. Frail monuments are likewise
protected. Nicely dressed people are going
hither and thither some carrying wreaths
and others placing them, while some are
sitting in meditation near the resting places
of their loved ones.
	A favorite inscription in this land is
“Resting in God.” Is it prompted by an
abiding faitn in Him? Is it true that these
sleeping multitudes thus await the sound
of the last trump? But what a disappoint-
ment that time will bring! Nothing be
as we think, perchance not as we desire.
What then? Well it is that an all-wise
Judge will scan our records, and to each
one will give all that justice tempered with
mercy can bestow.
	Not a discordant sound is heard, not a
boisterous tone or peal of laughter, but the
greatest respect everywhere. Everything
seems to be of hallowed memory.
In most of the German homes, they can-
not long keep their dead. They have but
few rooms. and live in all of them. There
are generally two families, one in each
Luppe, so that seventy-five or a hundred
people live in each house. When a death
occurs, they prepare the body for bnrial,
and it is taken to the church in the cemetery,
and often lies for some hours in the dead
house attached to it.
	One does not often see a single hearse,
but on the back is a carriage, having two
back wheels, the hearse serving for the two
front ones, or a carriage with a receptacle
for the little casket, crosswise, put at the
back of the driver. In this way expenses
are reduced at this sad time.
	It is said that the clergy reap a rich har-
vest at these seasons, for it is considered a
disgrace to lay relatives away without a
long sermon being read over them. So if
this is desired, and that he also wear his
fine robes, they must pay a high price. A
German funeral often costs hundreds of
marks when the family can illy afford it.
Todenfest is the winter remembrance
of the dead, while June 24th of each year
corresponds to our Decoration Day.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


The Montana House of Representatives
on Feb. 14 defeated the woman suffrage
bill, 38 to 30. It had a majority, but a two-
thirds vote was needed.

	"The woman suffrage constitutional
amendment has been favorably reported in
both branches of the California Legislature,
and the vote in the Senate stood 21 ayes to 
14 nays. This lacked a few votes of the nec-
essary two thirds majority. An effort will
be made to reconsider."

 Rev. Anna H. Shaw is now able to sit 
up, and is dictating more letters than her
doctor and nurse approve of, but she seems
to be in a cheery state of mind. She writes:
"I am a funny sight; I am sitting up,
propped in my big chair, with two little
pig-tails like Sissy Hopkins' each side of
my head, and wrapped up in a blanket. I 
sit up only a little while at a time. I am
really trying to do for once as I am told and
to get well as soon as possible.”—Ex.


60 		WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1905


[Column 1]
A GOLDEN WEDDING.

All of a tenor was their after life;
No day discolor'd with domestic strife;
No jealousy, but mutual truth believed
Secure repose and kindness undeceive'd.

	St. Valentine's Day, 1905 was the fiftieth
anniversary of the marriage of Samuel W.
Richards and his wife Mary Ann Parker
Richards, and the festive occasion was ap-
propriately celebrated at the residence of
his daughter Elizabeth and her husband,
Dr. and Mrs Elias S. Wright.
	There certain y is no more suitable day
for weddings than when the birds mate in
February, and when nesting and love-
making is in the air; and although in 1855,
when the marriage ceremony was solem-
nized, this young couple might not have
had in mind or chosen that particular day,
yet having grown sentimental as they grew
in years, perchance it may have dawned
upon them.
	The party given them was a complete
surprise and proved a perfect success.
	There were nearly one hundred present,
and the affair was simply delightful, with-
out parade or ostentation. Dr. Wright,
the host of the evening, was Master of
Ceremonies and proved himself very effici-
ent in that capacity. The rooms were
handsomely decorated, and the bride and
bridegroom, guests of honor, were seated
in the bay window of the library, where
they received the guests with unfeigned
dignity and graciousness. The numerous
relatives and friends, their cordial and gen-
uine greetings, were a source of true happi-
ness to their recipients.
	Dr. Wright gave the company some stir-
ring instrumental music, and a few young
people, and here and there one of the older
ladies indulged in dancing, sort of inform-
ally. A poem of affectionate remembrance
from a daughter in southern Utah, Mrs.
Annie Spilsbury, was read by Dr. Wright,
and also one from her daughter Josephine,
by the genial host. Miss Geneva Wright,
gave two recitations charmingly, "Ida's
First Bean" and "Grandma at the Mas-
querade." Little Afton Wright recited
"My Firstest Christmas Tree." Mrs. E.
B. Wells read, by request, a poem, "Remi-
niscences (Only a Fragment)," written for 
the Daughters of the Pioneers. Elder Rich-
ards gave some very interesting items of
his lite, that recalled to the older people
scenes of other days and old fr ends and
intimate associates, especially those who had
been prominent in Church history.

[Column 2]
	Delicious refreshments were served to all
guests by daughters and granddaughters
of the veteran bridegroom, who had, not
long since reached his fourscore years. The 
remainder of the evening was pleasantly
spent in social chat and conversation.
Among the distinguished guests was Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, General President of
the Relief Society, who had known Brother
S. W. Richards from his coming to Nanvoo
with his father's family in 1842. His
brother, Elder Henry P. Richards and wife,
and his sister, Maria W. Wilcox were pres-
ent to participate in the honor shown their
brother.
	Of the original Richards family who
came from the Berkshire hills in Massachu-
setts to Nanvoo, these three are
 the only
remaining ones. Their father, Phineas
and his wife Wealthy Dewey Richards,
passed away some years ago, also Apostle
Willard Richards, uncle of Samuel, who
became one of the First Presidency after the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph, and
died in 1856. A sister Rhoda Richards
and brother Levi passed away here.
Apostle Franklin D. Richards was of the
same family who came to Nauvoo in 1842.
These have all a numerous posterity in
Zion, except Aunt Rhoda Richards, who
never married, although she lived to be
over ninety, and was a remarkable woman
in many ways. The Richards family is
counted among the famous families in
Church history, along with the Smiths, the 
Youngs, and the Kimballs.


A RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	With the departure of Sister Hattie Blair
for Utah where she expects in the future to
make her home, the Brooklyn conference
loses one of its most va iant workers, and
our R lief Society its president. We shall
indeed miss her pleasant face, for she is like
a streak of sunshine wherever she goes.
	Especially will the family of Sister Joanna
Simms, who has been ill this winter at the
hospital and the care of whose six little chil-
dren fell upon the Relief Society, appreci-
ate the efforts of Sister Blair, when she is
far away in Zion
	At the mission headquarters, on Feb-
ruary 14, a genuine surprise was planned
for Sister Blair who came bustling into our
regular weekly evening meeting, as she
supposed. One needs only to attend a so-
cial gathering of Saints and missionaries to
feel the true spirit of love and unity which
is characteristic of the “Mormons.”
	A splendid impromptu program, in which
a new piano figured conspicuously, made
the earlier hours pass pleasantly.
	The ready response of Sister Ellen Thom-
as, Elders Kennard and Pack, with Sister
J. R. Clark as accompanist, as well as the
singing of the different groups of Elders,
was very much appreciated.
	Sisters Givilliams, White and Leone
Taylor gave literary numbers very credit-
ably.
	Sister Taylor also furnished American
Beauty roses and carnations (her Valentine
from Utah) which added to the evening’s
pleasure.
	Part of the program consisted of the re-
lease of Sister Bla r and the appointment of
Sister Sadie G. Pack of Utah as president of
the society.
	Remarks were made by President John
M. McFarlane, Sister Blair and counselors,
and President Pack. Refreshments were
served, after which Counselor Annie Mae
Clark, in behalf of the society, presented
Sister Blair with an autograph album, full
of expressions of love and blessings from
her friends. Games and charades made mer-
ry the later hours till good nights were
said.
	Much praise is due the secretary of our
society, Sister Belle Shaffer, for her able
management of the affair. Also President
and Sister McQuarrie, whose hospitality we
enjoyed.
	I will close with a tribute from one of the
Saints to Sister Blair, read during the eve-
ing.
						E. I. L.
			A TRIBUTE.
	Since I cannot mingle my voice with
yo[-]rs tonight, I desire to send my mite in
the entertainment and cheer of her in whose
honor you have met.
	Dear Sister Blair, whom I have learned to
love as one of my own kin, what a joy it
has been to know and to labor with her!
	And cannot all of the sisters say the
same? During the brief time she has been
our president, who shall estimate the work
she has performed? Not great deeds which
make a glittering show, but little acts of
charity and love, the object for which our
society was organized. Only fnture years
will enable us to realize and appreciate such
work, while those poor and needy among
us to whom her efforts have been more
closely directed will love and praise her
memory when she is far away.
	In contemplating the splendid example
she has been to us, of virtue, patience, love
and sunshine, Solomon’s eulogy to his ideal
of womankind seems most fitting to her.
	“Who can find a virtuous woman? for her
price is far above rubies. The heart of h[-]r
husband doth safely trust in her, so that he
shall have no need of spoil. She will do for
him good and not evil all the days of her
life. She seeketh wool and flax and work-
eth willingly with her hands. She riseth
while it is yet night and giveth meat to her
household, and a portion to her maidens.
She considereth a field and buyeth it with
the fruit of her hands she planteth a vine-
yard. She girdeth her loins with strength.
She perceiveth that her merchandise is
good, her candle goeth not out by night.
She layeth her hands to the spindle, and
her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth
out her hand to the poor, yea she reacheth
forth her hands to the needy. She is not
afraid of the snow, for all her household is
clothed in scarlet. Strength and honor are
her clothing and she s[-]all rejoice in time to
come. She openeth her mouth with wis-
dom, and in her tongue is the law of kind-
ness. She looketh well to the ways of her
household and eateth not the bread of idle-
ness. Her children rise up and call her
blessed; her husband also and he praiseth
her.”
	That all of God’s choicest blessings may
be the future for our sister is the wish of
				ONE OF THE SOCIETY.


MISS ANTHONY AND POLYGAMY.

Boston Woman's Journal, Feb. 11, 1905
	Opponents of Equal rights for women are
scattering broadcast through the press ac-
cusations that the woman suffragists, and
especially Miss Anthony and Mrs. May


Wright Sewall, favor polygamy. Dean
Swift said that it was remarkable how few
persons were skillful liars, considering the
large number who practice the art. In all
his experience, he declared, he had not met
with more than three good lies. This lie
about Miss Anthony and Mrs. Sewall is a
particularly clumsy one. Miss Anthony’s
pet idea, to which she has been devoted for
a life-time, is equal rights for women. Can
anyone seriously suppose she would favor
allowing a man to have a dozen wives when
a woman is only allowed one husband?
Mrs. Sewall was largely instrumental in
getting the International Council of Wo-
men to pledge itself to work for an equal
standard of morals for men and women;
and she is much more conservative in her
ideas on the marriage question than most
of her critics, or than the average of the
community.
	The whole outcry is based upon the fact
that Mrs. Sewall last summer expressed
herself as opposed to expelling from the
Woman’s Council a charitable society of
Mormon women which had belonged to the
Council for many years and because Miss
Anthony lately said she bad more respect
for a Mormon who imagined that he had a
religious sanction fo- his deeds, than she
had for a nominal Christian who lived an
immoral life.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall defined her po-
sition in a letter published in the Woman's
Journal of May 21, 1904. She said:
	“I not only believe in the monogamic as
the o[-]ly form of marriage compatible w[-]th
an ideal home, serving the highest spiritual
development, but I further believe that
marriage should never be dissolved except
by death.”
	Mrs. Sewall added that she believed it
was a good thing to have the organization
of Mormon women enter the Council, and
come in contact as much as possible with
women holding the higher ideal of monog-
amic marriage; and she reminded her critics
that Frances Willard had also favored let-
ting the Mormon association belong. Mrs.
Sewall denied in toto that she had ever
written to Senator Beveridge urging the
seating of Senator Smoot.
	In rega d to whether Mr. Smoot should
be seated, there are all sorts of opinions
among the suffragists, as there are among
the anti-suffragists. If he should be al-
lowed to take his seat, it will be by vote of
a U S. Senate most of whose members are
opposed to equal suffrage. Would that
justify the suffragists in declaring that the
“Antis” as a class favor polygamy?
	I never knew a suffragist, not a Mormon:
who believed in polygamy. But several
famous men who were strongly opposed to
equal rights for women have advocated
polygamy. One was John Milton, who was
such a champion of freedom for men and of
subjection for women that some one said he
seemed to regard men as made only for re-
bellion, and women as made only for sub-
mission. Napoleon, who regarded women
as useful solely to bring soldiers into the
world, and whose “Code Napoleon” de-
prived women of about all personal and
property rights, wrote: “I consider it a great
mistake that a man is allowed to have only
one legitimate wife.” No, polygamy is a
doctrine that belongs logically not to the
equal rights party, but rather to their op-
ponents. And the “Antis” must be poorly
off for legitimate arguments when they
make so absurd a charge against Miss
Anthony and Mrs. Sewall. 	A. S. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference was held at Loa
August 13, 1904. Visiting Sisters Susan
Grant and Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, Prest. Jane S. Coleman presiding.
Singing, “We thank thee, O God, for a
prophet,” prayer by Elder Joseph Eckers-
ley. Singing, “High on the mountain
top.”
	Prest. Jane S. Coleman was pleased to
meet with the sisters in conference. Re-
ported her labors in the stake; all in good
running order, prayed the Lord to bless us
in our conference. The president called
for reports, six branches were satisfactorily
reported out of ten.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was pleased
to have visiting sisters with us in confer-
ence, and prayed the Lord to bless us with
such instruction as is necessary for our
calling in the Relief Society.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was pleased to
meet with the brethren and sisters in con-
ference and to see so many young sisters in
meeting; said our subject should be the
work we are engaged in, spoke of the
growth of the Relief Society; and added,
“our first duty is to look after the poor,
teachers should be very wise and very gen-
tle, smiles are contagious, every day of our
lives do some good act; spoke of the care
of grain, if you approach the brethren
right they will help you a great deal; don’t
raffle quilts.” Spoke about Mother’s work
and many other subjects.
	Sister Susan Grant was pleased to see so
many young mothers with babies in con-
ference, was pleased that the sisters
are united; the older we grow the nearer
and dearer the Gospel seems; the R. S.
work is a great and responsible work, the
younger sisters will get an experience by
attending R S meetings, we always miss
a blessing when we miss a meeting; desired
to encourage the sisters, and do good.
	Counselor G. S. Bastian was pleased to
meet with the sisters in Relief Society con-
ference, practical talk is the most interest-
ing: appreciated the labors of the Relief
Society presidency of the Wayne Stake.
Prayed the Lord to bless us in our confer-
ence. Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Meeting ajourned till 2 p. m. Benediction
by John T. Lazenby.

	Afternoon session. Prest. Coleman pre-
siding. Singing, “Now let us rejoice”
Prayer by Patriarch E H Blackurn. Sing-
ing, “How firm a foundation.”
	The General Board and Stake officers
were sustained. Stake missionaries Lor-
enteng Ostberg and Leah Blackburn spoke
and bore testimony.
	Lucinda Brown said: We should keep in
mind what we have heard and practice it in
our lives.”
	Sister Susan Grant felt that the spirit of
the Lord was with us in our meeting, trust-
ed in the promises of the servants of the
Lord; said sisters should encourage their
husbands in their duties; have attractions
at home for your children, precept is good
but example is better, we have been
promised that this Gospel will never be
taken from us.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon felt to endorse all
that had been said, we are very much
blessed to be members of the Relief Society;
what we do, do it well; Relief Society work
means good wives and good mothers, said
we should try to have a little means in our

[Column 2]
treasury; we must endure faithfully to the
end.
	Patriarch Blackburn spoke to the sisters,
endorsed all that had been said, was sure
angels were present to take record of what
had been done; he felt honored to be called
on to speak to the sisters, “God bless the
words that have been spoken.”
	Counselor Joseph Eckersley said the
temporal and the spiritual must go hand in
hand; knowledge is the glory of God.
Mothers make your homes desirable,
mothers should instruct their daughters
that there is no greater mission than to bear
children. The pure in heart shall see God.
We can teach our children faith. Asked
God to bless the Society.
	Prest Coleman had enjoyed the confer-
ence very much; prayed the blessings of
the Lord upon all. Singing, “Ye ransomed
of our God.’’ Conference adjourned for six
months. Benediction by Bishop Henry
Morrell.
				ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
		SUMMIT STAKE.
Lec, 1st. Woman, Her Mission:
	(a) How to attain the highest type of
womanhood.
	(b) Learn the will of God concerning
them.
	(c) Preparation for further usefulness.
	(d) Laws of health, how observed.
	(e) Word of wisdom a fundamental prin-
ciple.
	(f) Full development of physical and
mental powers.
	(g) Tell of special ambition of women of
ancient Israel.
	(h) How do women of latter-day Israel
compare with those of former-day Israel in
fulfilling the most important function of
woman’s life?
Lec. 2nd.— Wifehood.
	(a) Woman’s duty to husband and home.
	(b) Love of God, desire to fulfill His
commandments.
	(c) How to be companionable.
	(d) Use influence for good, religiously
and intellectually.
	(e) What greater privileges do women of
today enjoy than women of ancient days
enjoyed?
	(f) God’s commandment to Adam and
Eve. (Gen 1: 28-36.)
Lec. 3rd.—Parents:
	(a) Highest calling of man and woman.
	(b) Responsible to God for their ministry.
(Ref. Maeser's “School and Fireside.”)
	(c) Child’s best heritage, honorable birth.
	(d) Purposes bent to prepare heart and
mind for embryonic moulding.
	(e) Cultivation of spirituality.
	(f) Prenatal influence: example, child of
faith.
	(g) Beginning and duration of parent’s
responsibility.
Lec. 4th.—Infancy.
	(a) The child’s welcome as a heaven-sent
gift.
	(b) Cleanliness a necessity.
	(c) Fresh air and warmth essential to
well-being.


[Column 1]
	(d) Nature’s food best, how often given.
	(e) Hygienic clothing,and plentiful mas-
sage with olive oil.
Lec. 5th.—Childhood.
	(a) Bright looks and gentle tones the
child’s birthright.
	(b) The character of the child a special
study.
	(c) Prayer taught at the mother’s knee,
and early imprsssions of faith in God.
	(d) First principles taught, obedience,
truthfulness, honesty and respect for the
priesthood and those in authority over
them.
	(e) Faith in ordination taught by pre-
cept and example.
Lec. 6th.
	(a) Co-operation of parents necessary for
future welfare of child.
	(b) Special teachings necessary when
child leaves home to attend district school.
	(c) Example set by others not always
worthy.
	(d) Care taken to guide children in choice
of companions.
	(e) Bad effects of continual fault-finding.
	(f) Parents should control themselves
before correcting child.
	(g) Cultivate spirituality and develop by
constant care. (Ref. “Fireside Talks,”
Carl G. Maeser.)
	Committee on Mothers’ Work, Summit
Stake.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Lesson 1st. Marriage,
		Ye kindred spirits filled with mutual love,
		Pure as the dews descending from above,
		All hail! for you the sacred keys are given,
		To make you one on earth and one in heaven,
		Be fruitful then, and let your race extend;
		Fill Earth, the stars and worlds that never end.
							Key to Theology.
	1. Marriage is ordained of God unto
man, Doc. & Cov. Sec. 49-15. 2. The
great purpose for which marriage was or-
dained is to fulfill that first divine law given
in the beginning— “Multiply and replen-
ish the earth,” Gen. 1: 28. Heb. 13: 4. 3.
Those contemplating marriage should pos-
sess a proper knowledge of the laws of life
and have a reverence for God’s laws con-
cerning the marriage relation. Key to The-
ology, page 165 166. 4.Warn our girls
against the delusive hope of reforming after
marriage a man whose habits before were
bad. 5. Justify advice by giving example
of lives which have been wrecked in this
way. 6. Kind of marriage approved, Doc.
& Cov. Sec. 132-15-18-19. Key to Theo-
logy, page 162.
	Lesson 2nd. Personal appearance and
cleanliness.
	“Cleanliness is indeed next to Godliness.’’
	1. Importance of cleanliness in person
and dress. Doc. &. Cov. Sec. 42-40-41.
2. Effect of personal appearance in society,
in the home, and in business. 3. Clothing
of expectant mothers should be both
healthful and becoming. 4. Good effects
of early training in cleanliness and personal
appearance. 5. Fashions and frivolities
of Babylon should be discouraged. (Brig-
ham Young) Journal Discourses, Vol. 16
& 17 page 27. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 42-40-41.

[Column 2]
	Lesson 3rd. Economy and Industry.
	1. Economy and Industry are unfailing
sources of temporal prosperity. 2. Econ-
omy of strength, of time and of money is
absolutely necessary to success. 3. Thou
shall not be idle: For he that is idle shall
not eat the bread nor wear the garments
of the laborer. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 42-42.
Doc. & Cov. Sec. 72-29. Proverbs 19: 15.
II Thess. 3-10-11-12. 4. Begin early in life
to teach a child to love manual labor: the
educational value of work.
	Lesson 4th. Tithing and Fast Offerings.
	1. By the law of Tithing the land of Zion
may be sanctified unto the Lord. Doc. &
Cov. Sec. 119: 6. 2. Origin of the law of
Tithing, Lev. 27-30 to 34. Gen. 14 18-19
20. 3. Meaning of the term Tithing. Doc.
& Cov. Sec. 119, Mal, 3: 10-11, Prov. 3: 9-
10. 4. When and to whom Tithing should
be paid. 5. Promise to those who are
tithed. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 64-23. 6. Potency
of the law of Tithing. 7. Fast offerings. In
as much as ye impart of your substance to
the poor ye will do it unto me. Doc. &
Cov. Sec. 42. 30-31.
	Lesson 5th. Word of Wisdom and prepar-
ation of Food.
	1. Health, wisdom and knowledge are
promised to all those who observe the word
of wisdom and the destroying angel shall
pass them by. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 89.
Dan. 1: 6-21 inclusive. 2. The word of
Wisdom was given first as a principle with
a promise, but since that time it has been
given as a commandment. 3. Show the
injury and disadvantage resulting from non-
observance of this commandment. 4. Food
should be clean, wholesome, and well
cooked. 5. Avoid the use of fermented
liquors and strong spices in seasoning lest
an appetite be created in the youth for
strong drink.
	Lesson 6th. Review Entire Lessons.
	LOUISA B. BENSON, President, HANNAH
MICKELSEN, LUCY D PARKINSON Coun-
selors. ELSIE B. ALDER, Sec. and Treas-
urer. PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL, Asst. Secre-
tary-
			MORGAN STAKE.
	Lecture I. The Human Body.
	(a) The human body the home of
thought. (b) Woman’s aim a noble one
in life. (c) The human heart the pulse
beat of life. (d) A perfect being the
noblest work of God. (e) We hear no
sound of hammer but the building never
ceases.
		We are building every day,
		In a good or evil way,
		And the building as it grows
		Must our inmost thought disclose;
		Build it well whate’er you do,
		Build it straight, and strong, and true;
		Build it high, add deep, and broad
		Build it for the eye of God.
	Lecture II.
	“The world was sad, the garden was a wild,
and man, the hermit sighed ‘til woman smiled.”
	(a) Nature has no secrets. (b) How
to avoid transgressing the laws of being.
(c) Know thyself. (d) What beauty de-
pends upon. (e) Result of ill health. (f)
The mother’s influence. (g) How to

[Column 3]
avoid base thoughts. (h) The mother as
companion to the daughter. (i) The dan-
ger that besets girls. (j) Motherhood a
woman’s sweetest joy.
	“Men are more eloquent than women made
	But women are more powerful to pursuade.”
	Lecture III. Our Boys and Girls. The
Fathers and Mothers of the next Generation.
“Ah happy years who would not be a child again.”
	(a) Childhood, its joys and trials. (b)
Good seed brings forth good fruit. “As
we sow we reap’. (c) Every organ per-
forms a certain work. (d) Duties of moth-
ers in instructing sons. (e) Importance
of cleanliness. (f) Foundation of success.
(g) Earnest and living truths. (h) Plenty
of pure air and sleep the best medicine for
children. (i) Choice of profession or trade.
(j) Self sacrifice.
		“When you meet a ragged urchin,
		Standing wistful in the street
		Without hat and kneeless trousers
		Dirty face and bare red feet;
		Pass not by the child unheeded,
		Smile upon him. Mark me when
		He’s grown, he,11 not forget it
		For remember boys make men.”
	Lecture IV. Love, courtship and mar-
riage.
	“Man’s love is of man’s life a thing apart
	’Tis woman’s whole existence.”
	(a) Love the source of happiness or
misery. (b) Courtship the mere alphabet
of love. (c) Love and marriage duly ap-
pointed. (d) Woman’s love stronger than
death. (e) Life’s companionship. (f)
Desirable traits of character in opposite sex.
(g) Causes of unhappy marriages. (h)
Preparation for married life — Domestic
duties—Industry and thrift. (i) Sharing
common joys and sorrows. (j) Self cult-
ure and discipline. (k) Gentleness greatly
loved. (1) The art of adaptation.
“How much the wife is dearer than the bride.”
	Lecture V. Advice to the unmarried.
		‘‘Home is not merely four square walls
		Though with pictures hung and gilded
		Home is where affection calls;
		Filled with shrines, the heart hath builded.”
	“A home should be of one’s building—
Man erects the building, woman enshrines
it. Home sweet home.”
	(a) Marrying out of one’s natural sphere.
(b) Domestic happiness. (c) How to
make one’s self worthy of a good husband.
(d) Marriage means parentage. (e) The
enlargement of affections. (f) The little
one in the home. (g) Sweeter as a moth-
er than a wife. (h) Indelible impressions.
“The children like olive plants round about thy
	table.”
Lecture 6. Marriage relations.
	(a) Is marriage a lottery? (b) Expect
not too much from each other. (c) Cold
indifferences. (d) Remedy for discord. (e)
Duties and pleasures of married life. (f) A
woman’s greatest privilege. (g) Home the
kingdom of woman. (h) Self-improvement.
(i) Consecration each to the other.
Lecture 7. Heredity and how overcome. .
	(a) Shall we transmit health or disease?
(b) The universe tends to health rather
than disease. (c) Parental responsibilty.


(d) Home surroundings. (e) Healthful
food. (f) Cheerful conversation. (g) The
physical helped by the mental. (h) Do
children inherit a tende[-]cy to lie and steal?
	i) Improvement for the race.
Lecture 8. Infants, and the care of them,
	A babe in the home, a wellspring of pleasure—
	A child the precious gift of God,
		(a) Culture before birth. (b) Influence
of mother on unborn. (c) Bathing of the
infant. (d) How clothes should be fastened.
(e) Cleanlinese and health. (f) Warmth a
requisite. (g) Diet of an infant. (h) Mis-
cellaneous suggestions.
Lecture 9. Children and their diseases.
		(a) A happy nursery. (b) Terrifying sto-
ries. (c) Nurtured in love. (d) Be a child
among your children. (e) How to spoil a
good temper. (f) Teach by example, (g)
Bathing of children. (h) Dress. (i) Evil
effects of garters. (j) Nourishing food.
(k) Vegetables rather than meat. (1) Sim-
ple remedy for croup, sore throat, measles,
mumps, worms and boils.
Lecture 10. Accidents and their treatment.
		(a) Presence of mind in a fire or other
accidents. (b) Treatment for a scald. (c)
What to do in case of an accident to the
eye. (d) Choking. (e) Sting of a bee.
(f)To remove foreign bodies from the
stomach. (g) Treatment of a bruise, (h)
Treatment of a stunned child. (i) Poisons
and their antidotes. (j) To make a bread
poultice. (k) Taking count of the pulse.
Lecture 11. The sick room.
		(a) Perfect ventilation. (b) Cut flowers
for the sick room. (c) Calmness and self-
possession. (d) Sunny exposure. (e) Avoid
draughts. (f) Clean bed linen. (g) De-
sirable qualities in a nurse. (h) Sunshiny
disposition. (i) When to engage a nurse.
(j) How to sweep the room of the sick.
Lecture 12. Personal beauty.
		(a) Public appearance. (b) How to over-
come imperfections of the body. (c) Influ-
ence of beauty and happiness. (d) Beauti-
ful dress. (e) Expression and brilliancy of
the eye. (f) Care of the teeth. (g) Care
of the hair. (h) How to take care of the
hands. (i) The body’s greatest need.
			MARYETTE R. WALDRON,
						Chairman.
			EMMA S. CLARK,
			ANNA S. DICKSON,
						Committee.
LYDIA RICH, President.
MYRTHA TONKS,
MARY J. WELCH,
			Counselors.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Emma Welch who departed this life Jan. 24, 1905.
	Whereas the Lord in his Providence has seen fit
to call home one of his most earnest workers leav-
ing to us the dear memory of a sister and a friend:
Therefore be it
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief
Society of the Cowley ward offer our earnest sym-
pathy and mourn with the husband, mother and
children. We appreciate the help she was in our
ward as organist, and to our children as teacher
and leader in their amusements, and an aid to the
Young Ladies as well as President of the Relief
Society, and we esteem her faithful labors as
worthy of emulation by all. To know her was to
love her.
A living example of a true Latter-day Saint, she


always had a prayer in her heart and a kind word
on her lips.
	She was greatly loved by all her many friends
who admired her sterling qualities; but we know
if we are faithful we shall meet her again in that
beautiful home where sin and death cannot enter.
	We ask the blessings of the Lord on all those be-
reaved ones, may He comfort their hearts in this
hour of their separation.
	Be it resolved that we send a copy of these Res-
olutions to her mother, the EXPONENT and that a
copy be spread upon the minutes of the Cowley
Relief Society.
						Committee,
						SARAH M. CROSBY,
						ALVILEA DICKSON,
						CLAUDIA KETCHUM,
						SARAH PARTRIDGE,
						ESTHER J. MORTNESEN.


TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS. 

When sickness and sorrow assail us, 
	And hope’s glowing embers burn dim; 
When we, for sweet comfort and yearning, 
	Are offering our prayers unto Him 
Who feedeth the lambs on the hillside, 
	And noteth the sparrows that fall, 
They come “In His Name,” these dear sisters, 
	With kindness and love for us all. 

When poverty looks in our window, 
	And we hear the grim wolf at our door, 
These sisters send food for our children,
	“In His Name,” are they blessed o’er and o’er.
Who can tell all the good they accomplish, 
	What blessings to lone ones they are? 
Their deeds are recorded in Heaven-
	In their crowns will shine many a star. 

The Savior’s example they follow, 
	Their works with His teachings agree,
“As you do to the least,” said the Savior, 
	"Just so you are doing to me. ’
Keep on with your work, do not falter, 
	Your aims are most noble and pure; 
Though your duties at times are most trying, 
	The reward my dear sisters, is sure. 

Much praise to you all should be given, 
	May God bless you ever and aye, 
And comfort when sorrows o'ertake you, 
	While traversing life’s thorny way.
And when your great missions are ended, 
	And you pass to the mansions above, 
Our Father’s dear arms will enfold you, 
	He will greet you with kindness and love. 

So sisters, press ernestly onward, 
	The poor and the needy to bless, 
"In His name," still your motto naught hnman 
	Can the worth of your deeds e’er express.
When aged and worn you are nearing 
	The end of the path you have trod, 
May the angels be waiting to greet you, 
	And guide to the presence of God, 
	ANNIE MALIN.


[Column 1]
		MRS. GILMAN ON PURE AIR. 
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman contrib-
utes to the February number of the Spring-
field (Mass.) Good Housekeeping a pungent 
article on "The Home and the Hospital." 
She says in part: 
We despise the Hindu, dying of cholera 
for lack of sewerage. But we die at a rate 
of one to four for lack of ventilation. We 
have the white plague steadily killing us 
off in our most valuable years, costing us 
one quarter of our lives, and billions of dol-
lars annually;—a loss it has been calcu-
lated equal to our entire annual export 
trade. We die patiently of this, as our 
ancestors died of the other, and fail to see 
how swiftly we could end it if we would.
	Consumption like typhoid fever, is a dirt 
disease, but it is from dirt in the lungs.
 *  *  *	We have to learn to purify the air 
of our cities from its body of dirt, as we
[Column 2]
have purified the streets of "surface drain-
age;" and, more directly, we have to learn
not to poison it. 
In this part of the struggle sanitary sci-
ence must penetrate that well nigh invinc-
ible fortress, the home, and teach it not to 
generate disease. Building laws come first; 
proper air space, sunlight, room for physi-
cal decency and health of the inhabitants. 
Here is the hospital, taking in the wreck-
age of the home, and teaching it how much 
cubic space a human being must have; how 
many cubic feet of air an hour, and what 
kind of cleanliness is clean. Pure, white, 
sterilized and safe, with the inmates so 
guarded that even so guarded they do not 
further infect one another—this is the ex-
treme of human effort to allow nature free 
play in the struggle for health. 
Now what cannot the home learn of the 
hospital. It need not be full of sick folks.
If all the homes were what they should be, 
we should need few hospitals. It need not
be as coldly colorless, but beauty in house-
hold decoration can be obtained without 
our masses of dust generating cloth. A 
house could be as lovely as a sea-shell, and
as smooth. It could have thrilling beauty 
of color and of line, pure, satisfying pro-
portion, all manner of tender ornaments
and decoration, and yet not a needless 
thing in it. 
And, above all, it could have pure air, 
as far as it own contribution went. While 
we allow our manufacturers to poison us 
by wholesale with low-lying clouds of 
smoke and deadly gases, the home cannot 
be safe; but an intelligent spirit in onr
homes would rise up against that wholesale 
outrage as the men of old rose against the 
poisoning of the wells. Meanwhile, the 
home could at least see to it that it did not 
do its own poisoning. 
Here sits the family around the evening 
lamp; all dutifully getting the light over 
the left shoulder, for the sake of their eyes. 
The lamp meanwhile is consuming as 
much oxygen as one of the family. The 
furnace is going merrily, and the wind 
howls outside. All is peaceful and serene, 
and no one complains until a boisterous son 
comes in from out of doors.
	“Huh!” he says rudely; "why don't you 
open a window?" 
"The window is open down in the dining 
room," replies his mother, severely; "you 
have just come in from outside, that's 
all!" 
So he sits down in the family air and 
subtracts his portion of the remaining ox-
ygen as peacefully as he can, contributing 
also his portion of used-up air, that grows 
fouler and fouler as it is breathed and re-
breathed by the group, and no one notices
it.
	We need a cultivated taste in air—as we
have in music; a "trained nose," as well 
as a trained ear or eye. And we need a 
machine, an invention, a little scientific 
appliance, a thing like a thermometer—
small, pocketable, which the well bred 
could consult on occasion and say, "Dear 
me! The air has but eleven per cent of 
oxygen, and it's up to 86 with deleterious 
gas!" While we wait for the inventor, let 
the home learn of the hospital, and so es-
cape it.
	A place where people live all the time, 
ought to be quite as sanitary, as “antisepti-
cally clean,” as a place for sick folks. The 
hospital elaborately shuts the door after the 
horse is stolen. 
Who stole it?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE STATUE OF MISS WILLARD.
The statue of Frances E. Willard to be
placed in the Statuary Hall in the National
Capitol, has received the last touches from
Miss Mears, the sculptor, and was in place
in a niche close by the figure of Washing-
ton, before February 19. On that day, the
anniversary of Miss Willard’s death, her
statue, the gift of Illinois to the nation, was
formally accepted by Congress. Senators
Cullom and Hopkins of Illinois, Beveridge
of Indiana, Dolliver of Iowa, and Repre-
sentatives Foss and Boutele of Illinois, and
Littlefield of Maine, delivered the addresses.
Next day the school children of Washington
were given a chance to visit Statuary
Hall. Each child to place a flower at the
base of the statue, and receive from Miss
Gordon a medal commemorating the event,
and bearing a miniature reproduction of the
statue. On the evening of February 17
the W. C. T. U. held a national commem-
orative meeting in Washington.
The statue represents Miss Willard stand-
ing, her right arm extended, the hand rest-
ing upon a reading desk; the left arm is at
her side, with a few pages of manuscript
in the hand. She is about to address an
audience; and the familiar pose of the head,
the strong, spiritual face, are lifelike.
Augustus Saint Gaudens, the former in-
structor of Miss Mears, speaks of it as
“showing in a way that it seems to me on-
ly a woman could do, the union of strength
with feminine gentleness—a quality most
tender and elusive, but which she has cer-
tainly infused in her work.” The pedes-
tal is of Vermont marble, and bears the
following inscription:
Ah! It is women who have given the
costliest hostage to fortune. Out into the
battle of life they have sent their best be-
loved, with fearful odds against them. Oh,
by the dangers they have dared, by the
hours of patient watching over beds where
helpless children lay, by the incense of ten
thousand prayers wafted from their gentle
lips to heaven, I charge you give them
power to protect along life’s treacherous
highway those whom they have so loved!—
Frances E. Willard.		—Ex.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you a
much as possible for your money.		 TRY US
Save Your Money!

[Column 2]
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
No. 1 East Temple Street.


ADVANCED RUSSIA.

	When the four thousand students and 
professors of the University of St. Peters-
burg assembled in mass meeting the other 
day, one of the resolutions that they passed 
unanimously was a demand for representa-
tive government and for a national assem-
bly to be elected by universal suffrage, irre-
spective of sex. 
This must have been startling to many 
conservative Americans, who have fondly 
imagined that the demand for equal rights 
for women were limited to a handful of dis-
contented spinsters in the United States. 
The movement is world wide; and the St. 
Petersburg resolution shows that it is fur-
ther advanced in some respects among the 
"intellectuals" of Russia than it is in the


United States. For there is no university
in America outside of the four equal suff-
rage states, where such a resolution could
have been passed by a unanimous vote. It
illustrates the truth of what Mrs. Katherine
Breshkovskaya wrote a few weeks ago:
“Educated Russia has become radieal be-
fore becoming liberal. The intelligent men
of the empire believe in giving women ab-
solutely equal rights."
It illustrates also the wide gap that exists
between governmental Russia and popular
Russia. It is only within a year that Rus-
sian women have been allowed to take a
medical degree without going abroad to get
it; and the Russian universities are still
closed to them, though “higher courses” of
study for women exist at St. Petersburg The 
mediaeval policy of repression and exclusion
represents the attitude of the government;
while the professors and students of the St.
Petersburg University vote unanimously
for granting women not only education,
but full political rights.		A. S. B.
Boston Woman's Journal.


MARICOPA STAKE.
Report of the Relief Society conference of
the Maricopa Stake of Zion, held in the
Relief Society hall, December 1st, 1904,
with Stake President Mabel A. Hakes pre-
siding, with a full attendance of officers and
members. Stake President Collins R.
Hakes and others of the Priesthood, also
Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah J.
Cannon from Salt Lake City. Opened with
the usual exercises.
Reports were given, with much charity
work having been done in cases of fire, etc.
The Stake had been visited with the excep-
tion of one ward up in the mountains, this
ward being visited during the summer.
The Relief Society work among the Lam-
anites is still going on, though this part of
the organization has been discontinued for
some time, they are beginning to see the
fruits of their former labors among the
young. The work in the Stake is pro-
gressing both spiritually and temporally
among those who are active in attending
their duties, they are greatly benefitted, also
by getting the covenant and command-
ment lectures. Mothers’ work has been
begun and is successful thus far. We were
pleased to have the visiting sisters with us
to hear our reports, to give us encourage-
ment and instruction in this great and im-
portant work. Teachers’ duties, care of the
poor, teaching children the law of tithing,
honoring the Priesthood and old age, were
topics spoken upon, interspersed with ap-
propriate songs and picnic at the noon hour
which was greatly enjoyed by all. Ad-
journed for three months with hymn and 
benediction. 
ANNIE E. FULLER; Sect


“Mrs. Katherine Breshkovskaya, the Si-
berian exile, now visiting this country, 
mentioned during her recent visit to Boston
an interesting fact bearing upon the much-
discussed question whether the Russian 
peasantry are yet capable of self-govern-


ment. There are in Russia two provinces,
Viatka and Perm, where there are no
nobles, and the peasants manage their own
affairs. These two “peasant provinces”
have the best roads, the best schools, the
best-paid teachers, and the largest number
of libraries and technical schools, of any
provinces in Russia. Every town in Viatka
maintains an academy for girls, and would
maintain one for boys, too, if the govern-
ment would allow it. But the government
permits only a few academies for boys. The
peasant girls who graduate from the acade-
mies become teachers, nurses, doctors’ as-
sistants, etc., but after all such places are
filled, there are many educated girls left.
These marry uneducated peasant men. But
it is noticeable, Mrs. Breshkovskaya says,
that whenever there is an educated mother,
she keeps her husband’s hut very clean;
and  she educates both her daughters and
her sons. Mrs. Breshkovskaya says the
peasants manage their local affairs with
much discretion and common sense, in
marked contrast to the stupid, wasteful and
corrupt way in which the imperial govern-
ment squanders its money and mismanages
all its business.”
	Lady Henry Somerset, in a recent article
on the simple life, says: “It would be in-
teresting to analyze how much real happi-
ness come to the man who has made or in-
herited a large fortune, and feels it neces-
sary to live in what is called ‘adequate
style ’ He builds himself a palace, engages
a troop of servants, begins to collect pic-
tures, furniture and objects of art, and he
little knows that he is heaping upon himself
a world of trouble. A man with a moder-
ate income, who has no requirements be-
yond those which he can well supply,
who lives in a house where his things give
him no anxiety, but in refined, tasteful and
simple surroundings, who can afford to see
his own friends because he cares for them,
and not a host of people who have to be
asked because it is the right thing that they
should be seen at his home, is the really
happy man.” 
	John Barrett, United States minister at
Panama, has given a fund to be used in
prizes for the best papers on the relations of
the United States with the Latin-American
republics. The prizes are to be open to
competition by young men and women now
in the regular courses of any college or
university of recognized standing in the
United States


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
