Vol. 33						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1905.						No. 11.


CONTENTS. 
The Polytechnic Institution, London......M. F.	81
Woman’s Voice.............................L. D. M. A.	83
Testimony to Sister John...........Aretta Young	83
MOTHER’S WORK:—Bear Lake Stake.......	86
	Blackfoot Stake......................................	86
In Memoriam—Sarah M. Hammond—Sarah
	Jane Holliday—Margaret P. Evans.........	87
Utah Commission, Lewis and Clark Exposi-
	tion..........................................................	87
The National Convention................................	88
Tribute to Sister Caroline Pace.......................	88
Kaiser William’s Stables.........Lydia D. Alder	88
EDITORIAL:—A Happy Anniversary—Helpful
	Suggestions—Editorial Notes—General
	Relief Society Conference......................	84
Relief Society Reports................................82	83
POETRY:—A Spring Song................M. F. K.	81
	Progre[-]s..........................Ellis R. Shipp	81
	A Memory..................Grace Ingles Frost	83


A SPRING SONG.
Come out in the sun-light, sister,
	Casting sorrow and gloom aside,
All is glad to-day, let us hie away
	And welcome the fair springtide,
What! tears in your eyes, my sister.
	And traces of care on your brow,
While beauteous May in her robes so gay,
	Is wooing you to her now!
’Tis Winter still, in your heart, dear?
	Nay, sister, how may this be?
For the Father of Love who reigns above
	Sends His Springtide to you and me.
He bids you rise from your sorrow,
	He bids you with Nature rejoice;
In the joyous hymn of gladsome Spring
	To unite with heart and voice.
Then lift your eyes to the heavens
	To God’s altar your incense bring, 
Of grateful praise, through the fair glad days
	Till comes His Eternal Spring.
							- M. F. K.


[Column 1]
			PROGRESS.
From the whirl and swirl of nations, to the moth-
	er’s cradle song,
Through time’s wonderful inventions, and life’s
	ways of righting wrong;
In the heart of man or woman—in their modes of
	speech, e’en thought,
In all things divinely human do we find progres-
	sion wrought.
With a retrospective vision we may scan the
	changeful past,
Since man found on earth his mission, vivid horo-
	scope be cast.
Or peruse the revolution in the world’s historic
	tomes.
Of the fitful evolution in ambitions, hopes and
	homes.
We behold brave sires of freedom bending ’neath
	the stress of toil,
Nought but brawn and strong volition to make
	fruitful, untried soil;
Ekeing out a scant subsistence for their children
	not a few,
None were then denied existence, all were welcome
	as the dew.
Schools uncommon, books rare treasures, teachers
	crude in discipline,
With the rod, or harsher measures, sought obedi-
	ence to win;
Impotent were they to fathom possibilities of
	mind,
Influence of mind o’er matter—threads of gold to
	thus unwind.
Now we wonder how our mothers washed and
	sewed and wove and spun,

[Column 2]
Without steam to ease their labors, toiling on from
	sun to sun;
There was no electric button to be touched to give
	them light,
Tallow-dip or lard and cotton, all that cheered
	through darkest night;
Wearily they darned and mended, or perchance
	they knitted on
By the faintly glowing embers, till the coming of
	the dawn;
Oft they passed through ills maternal without ten-
	der care or skill,
Only faith in One eternal, and their own undaunt-
	ed will.
Hand in hand with hearts united in serene sim-
	plicity,
Men and women worked and waited, trusting God
	implicitly;
Human odds seemed all against them! blindly
	struggling year by year.
Till man’s heaven-inspired inventions brought the
	great Millennium near.
Marvelous the transformation! can it be magician’s
	wand,
Or the touch of fairy fingers, taking us to realms
	beyond?
Brilliant lights in varied tintings. “liquid air” and
	“air compressed,”
Give to mortals faintest glintings of a power still
	unexpressed.
Mortal minds can hardly follow all the changes
	time hath wrought—
Great developments in science, through inspired
	progressive thought;
Cables stretched ’neath ocean billows, e’en the
	voiceless message sent.
Radium revealing powers without limit in ex-
	tent,—
Monuments to erudi[-]ion—pinnacles into the skies.
Mighty progress plainly written, bidding men and
	women rise—
Rise on stepping stones of wisdom to a far diviner
	power—
Rise to holier achievements. Progress watchword
	of the hour.
Step by step we find each nation casting off heretic
	gloom.
Peoples, high or low in station, crying: “Give our
	children room!”
“Give us scope for thought and action; give us
	power to do and dare;
Free us from fanatic faction—help us mount pro-
	gression’s stair.”
Haste the time when all creation bows before one
	holy shrine—
In one grand united nation, bound by living faith
	divine!
Then we’ll love all men as brothers, put aside all
	mortal strife;
Such progression is eternal—will secure eternal
	life!
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


EDITORIAL NOTE. 
	The missionaries of the General Board of 
the Relief Society are beginning to fill the 
appointments for Stake Conferences, and 
some visits have already been made. Sisters
Sophia T. Nuttall and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth visited Jordan Stake by invitation on 
Monday, May 8, and Sisters Sarah Jenne 
Cannon and Hattie B. Harker attended the 
Relief Society Conference of Millard Stake 
held at Scipio on May 13. Sisters Ellis R. 
Shipp and Elizabeth S. Wilcox attended 
Malad Stake, May 18. Counselor Annie 
Taylor Hyde and Sister Elizabeth J Stev-
enson left on the 23rd inst. to attend Con 
ferences in Bannock and Fremont Stakes
Sisters Emma S. Woodruff president o[-]
Granite Stake accompanied by Sister Hattif 
Harker left May 25, for U[-]ntah Stake to a
tend the Relief Society Conference there


THE POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTION.
			LONDON.
	By very few people in this country is it
known that such an institution as the Poly-
technic in London, Great Britain, exists.
	It was founded by Mr. Quinton Hogg.
At the age of eighteen years, after leaving
Eton, he entered the firm of Bosanquet,
Curtis & Co., merchants, of which he is now
the head.
	At that early age he began to manifest
an interest in homeless boys, i.e. 1863.
	He hired a small house in York Place,
Strand, where he opened a night ragged
school and shelter for destitute boys. The
work grew to such an extent that larger
premises were taken in Drury Lane
in an old warehouse, where he could have
a playground for physical exercise. Mr.
Hogg himself occupied a cubicle in the dor-
mitory. He was now joined in the work
by two fellow Etonians—the Hon. Lord
Kennard and the Hon. T. H. W. Pelham.
	He invited the boys who were well be-
haved to his country home, and became
the personal friend of all the boys who
came under his supervision. When one
showed a desire to improve himself, he ap-
prenticed him to a trade. About 1500 of
them he emigrated to Canada and the
United States
	In 1873 he found the boys he had ap-
prenticed brought their friends with them.
This necessitated some provision other than
a ragged school, so the Youth’s Christian
Institution was started with a membership
of 35. Soon the membership rose to hun-
dreds. In 1882 Mr. Hogg acquired the old
Polytechnic building in Regent Street, Lon-
don. For the premises and subsequent al-
terations he paid $750,000.
	Here he has since carried on a growing
work for young men, the like of which it
would be difficult to find in the world. To
see the president at his best, one should
contrive to meet him at the Polytechnic,
when the boys assemble at 9 o’clock p.m,
on weekdays.
	He calls and knows every boy by name,
and his house adjoins the institution at the
back.
	In 1882 one thousand members were en-
rolled, but the membership increased so
amazingly that in 1892 there were over
eleven thousand bona fide students. They
have over five hundred evening classes per
week in addition to a day school for eight
hundred boys and girls. The classes are for
art work, typewriting, shorthand, a techni-
cal school and engineering school. Perfect
order is maintained in every department,
in fact the whole machinery works with
perfect smoothness.
	Mr. Hogg was at first averse to mixing
the sexes, but he has d[-]parted more and
more from this principle yearly. The girls
who come are real students. They
have a separate gymnasium and reading
room. The nominal charge of 35 cents per
quarter or $1.25 per annum entitles the
girls to the use of the social rooms, sewing
rooms, and the Polytechnic itself, as far as
it is open to females.
	The swimming bath is reserved for their


use on Fridays only. There are special
classes for music, dressmaking, millinery,
needlework, cooking, and domestic econ-
omy.
	For the young men there is cricket, foot-
ball, rowing, swimming, lawn tennis, box-
ing, etc.
	Connected with the institution are the
following clubs and societies: Polytechnic
Ramblers, Boxing Club, West London
Rifles, Volunteer Medical Staff, Military
Band, Drum and Fife Band, Orchestral
Society, Electrical Engineering Society,
Photographic Society and Natural History
Society.
	Mr. Hogg soon found he could not entertain
the sick and those who needed rest, so hol-
iday homes were started on a paying basis.
He has also organized holiday trips of all
kinds and rates to meet the various circum-
stances. At Easter a batch of students
are sent to Oxford with a competent lec-
turer at a cost of $4 35 per week each. There
are also foreign holiday trips arranged at a
nominal cost to students. To Ardennes
and back with accommodation $18.75 per
week. A week in Switzerland $26 25. Two
weeks through Norway with a lecturer,
$41.25 for the trip. Eleven hundred stu-
dents were booked for the Chicago Exhibi-
tion for $135. By the same ship an ordi-
nary return fare to New York would have
been $125.
	The expenditure of the Polytechnic is
about $175,000 per annum. It is seldom
that it pays itself, but the deficits are made
up by its generous patron.
	I omitted to mention, it has an experi-
mental room, where any new invention
will be exhibited by application to the com-
mittee.
	No doubt the many interests to which the
Polytechnic appeals may partly explain its
wonderful success, but the one circumstance
which more than any other has contributed
to it, is the whole-hearted devotion of its
patron by which it was inspired and sus-
tained ever since its humble birth, when it
started with two ragged crossing sweepers.
				MARIA FRANCIS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Alpine Stake was held at
Lehi, April 21, 1905. Meeting convened
at 10 o’clock, President Rebecca Standring
presiding. Singing. Prayer, Brother Schow.
Singing. Minutes read and approved.
	President Standring greeted the sisters in
her usual kind and motherly way. “The
Lord has promised that if we are faithful
we shall never be overcome;” stated that all
the wards had been visited except two, dur-
ing the last quarter, and some twice; prayed
the Lord to bless the presidents and inspire
them with with the spirit of the Lord.
Every ward in the Stake being represent-
ed, all seem to be doing their utmost to
further the great work. Good meetings
are held, several new meeting houses have
been built recently and the sisters have
done a good word in helping to finish and
furnish them.
	After the reports, President Standring
gave instructions in regard to our March
celebration, asked the wards to meet con-
jointly as far as possible on that day, and
have fellowship together, and not particu-
larly for making means, but each member,
if ever so poor, should consider it her duty

[Column 2]
to pay her fee of ten cents. Advised the
sisters to buy wheat with the money they
have on hand, and not keep it or use it in
any other way. “It is our mission to save
souls,” and she thought we should have to
have missionaries in our stake to visit every
house and stir up the sisters to their duty.
	Singing Benediction, Sister E. Feather-
stone. Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session Conference, 2 p. m.
Singing. Prayer, Brother William South-
wick. Singing. Minutes read and accept-
ed. President Standring prayed that the
speakers might all be inspired by the Spirit
of the Lord in their remarks. Stak[-] Presi-
dent Stephen L Chipman said the Spirit of
the Lord is a wonderful influence, and it
makes people humble and meek, charitable
and long suffering. Christ is the chief
c[-]rner stone of this work. Our enemies
would strike our religion out of existence,
but it is the Lord’s work and it has come to
stay. Prophets and Apostles are with us,
and there is no doubt as to the outcome of
this work. It s not those who pay tith-
ing that find fault, but those who do not
observe this law. President Chipman read
the revelation on tithing. There is no
part of the tithing but is handled by the
proper authority and every dollar can be ac-
counted for satisfactorily by the people.
Part of the tithes are used for the bene t of
schools, some for the building of meeting
houses and for the establishment of foreign
missions and the poor receive a benefit from
the tithing.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley: “This
society is a grand organization where we
can understand the fruits of the Spirit, and
where our testimony may be strengthened
and it is a pleasure to do our duty.” Refer-
red to our General Conference and the spir-
it of the reports, and thought our Stake
would compare favorably with other stakes;
felt thankful for the love and unity exist-
ing.
	President James H. Clark: “This is not
the work of man, look at those who have
been instruments in bringing the work to
this point, it is marvelous. The Lord gives
us strength and blesses us with faith to
continue. How many there are in this
Church faithful women who have husbands
who are careless and negligent. What can
they do? They can pray, pray continually
and the Lord will hear their prayers and
answer them, and the wayward ones will
be brought to repentance. God is with the
work and is guarding it. If the principle
of tithing is not true, the whole fabric is
false.” Spoke of the church in Chicago
built by tithing; also in Denmark and
Sweden. Look at our comfortable homes.
Sister Sina Chipman felt we had had a
feast today, could see great beauty in the
principles of the Gospel, had listened to the
testimony of a lady who was one of the
wives of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
who related many of the troubles and driv-
ings of the people in that day, what they
endured for the Gospel’s sake and for the
establishment of the work of the Lord in
this last dispensation.
	Singing. Closing prayer, Patriarch Wil-
liam Clark. Conference adjourned for three
months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.

			NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Nebo
stake Relief Society convened in the Spring
Lake meeting house, April 14, 1905,

[Column 3]
President Lilyus C. Page presiding. Con-
gregation sang, prayer by David Butler,
singing. Minutes read and approved.
	Sister L. C. Page thanked the people of
Spring Lake for their cordial greeting. Sis-
ter Vina Moore, president of the Spring
Lake society, welcomed all at the confer-
ence, felt pleased to have the conference
here, read an address delivered by President
Roosevelt to the Congress of Mothers on
race suicide. Sister Page gave a report of
the conference in Salt Lake City.
	Song by Sister Cecil Speinhower. Sister
Mary A. Bingham reported the Benjamin
Society as being complete in its organiza-
tion, having paid $30 to the woman’s buii-
ding. Goshen Society was reported by
Pres, Mary Ann Price as being in good
condition. Stster Sarah Swensen reported
the Relief Society of the Fourth ward of
Spanish Fork. First ward of Payson was
represented by Sister Amy Hancock, own
meeting house and granary
	Recitation, Alice Butler Smith, Aunt
Hannah’s Thanksgiving Sermon.
	Sister Sarah Roberts of Goshen spoke on
the slackness of people in attending to their
duties, this is what is bringing trouble
upon us as a people. Prophesied that
President Smith would prevail and his ene-
mies be brought to naught;
	Sister Moore said she did not want any-
body to go away, but stay to lunch.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing, closing prayer by Susannah Pick-
ering.
	Afternoon session: Choir and congrega-
tion sang, prayer by Bishop William Taylor
of Spring Lake ward, singing. Minutes
read and approved.
	Sister Mary A. Pierce spoke on the Word
of Wisdom. Sister Sarah Swenson spoke
on obedience to those in authority over us,
	A ladies’ quartette was rendered by mem-
bers of the Spring Lake ward Sunday school
—“Sweet wild-wood flowers.”
	Sister Mary A. Hallam spoke on various
principles of the Gospel and bore testimony
to the truth thereof. Sister Emma S. Jen-
kins of Goshen spoke of the use of the Doc-
trine and Covenants and Church History
in the home to instruct our children.
	Recitation, Sister Annie Bennett, “Which
shall it be?”
	Brother Hyrum Simmons, of the Stake
Presidency, spoke on the object of the Re-
lief Society and an understsnding of theGos-
pel. The Doctrine and Covenants is our
guide in this day. Bishop William Taylor
felt glad of the privilege of having a stake
conference at our place, believed the time
is coming when all will be tried, hoped to
stand faithful to the end, hoped this con-
ference would be a help to the people of
this ward to encourage them to do better.
	Stake Counselor Eliza J. Dixon felt tru-
ly grateful for the way in which we have
been entertained today; compared the dif-
ferent sections of the Church to a great
picture to be painted by many artists; illus-
trated how bad habits have control over us.
gave notice that this conference will be ad-
journed for three months, to July 14th at
Payson.
	Choir and congregation sang. Benedic-
tion by Martha S. Kapple.
		HATTIE WRIDE, Asst. Sec.


On May 18 the various Peace Societies
throughout the world and numerous organ-
izations of women celebrated the anniver-
sary of the establishment of the Hague
Court of International Arbitration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MEMORY.
(Dedicated to Sister Emma Neff by Grace Ingles
				Frost).
	At the hour when daylight is fading,
		When the curtain of night falls fast,
	I dream, but not of the future,
		I dream of a time that is past,
	In my heart lives a sweet, sad feeling,
		A memory of long ago.
	Of a girl with a fair, ethereal face,
		And a heart as pure as snow.
	I dream and once again see her,
		A babe lying by my side.
	Looking at me in wonder,
		With violet eyes open wide.
	And then I see a wee lady.
		Playing with dishes and dolls,
	And hear the sweet baby accent,
		As ‘‘Muzzie,” she now and then calls.
	Next I see her a school girl,
		A school girl, with merry laugh.
	And think as of yore, may God give her
		Always a sunny path.
	Years pass; I see my once baby,
		A bride with the blushing face,
	As she so happy and loving,
		At the altar takes her place.
	I raise my voice to heaven,
		And praise the Holy One,
	For being so kind and favoring
		My own, as He hath done,
	I think not of how many
		The burden of sorrow bear;
	I think of but one fair woman;
		For her is my every prayer.
	And still I dream, dream and dream on,
		But my heart is with anguish torn;
	I now, alas! am forced to wear
		That badge by others worn.
	For one dark morn the mysteries
		Of Life and Death are wrought,
	And in my arms they place the babe
		My darling's life has bought


WOMAN'S VOICE.

Testimony of Lucy Diantha Morley
Allen, daughter of Isaac Morley and Lucy
Gunn Morley, born in Kirtland, Geauga
Co., Ohio, October 4th, 1815.
I was well acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph Smith. He came from New York
to Kirtland at an early date. He lived in
our home seven months and afterwards
in a house built for him by my father near
our home.
I was married to Joseph Stewart Allen in
Lima, Hancock Co., Ill; passed through
many of the persecutions and mobbings of
the Saints; saw my father, with others,
taken by the mob to be shot because they
were “Mormons,” but they were delivered
by the power of the Lord.
I came to Utah in 1848, in Brigham
Young’s company. I have helped to build
up many places in Utah, was called to the
Muddy mission and lived there three years.
I was a member of the United Order at
Orderville, until it was broken up.
I am the mother of five sons and seven
daughters, I have seventy-eight grandchil-
dren, one hundred and four great grand-
children, and nine great, great granchil-
dren.
I was promised by Apostle F. M. Lyman
that none of my posteritv should be lost; a
promise that is a great comfort to me. I
want to bear my testimony that Joseph
Smith was a true prophet of the Lord, also
a grand and noble man,

L. D. M. A.


Lines written by H. E. Hoyt, to Lucy
Diantha Morley Allen, on her eighty-ninth
birthday.
	Eighty-nine years, and thy natal day,
	Nearly nine tenths of a century[-]
	And there beams from thine aged face
	The love of the Gospel, which thro’ Gods grace
	Has been thy solace thro’ joy and pain;
	And dwells in thy heart yet still the same.
	Eighty-nine years in the fulness of times,
	How much thou hast seen in those years of
		thine,
	How well thou didst know our Prophet dear,
	How much thou caust tell that brings the tear,
	Of sufferings past, heartrending scenes;
	Which some may say are only dreams.
	But, sister, the scenes of thy early youth,
	We know thou hast told in words of truth.
	And yet again we would have you tell,
	Of our Prophet dear, whom we love so well;
	How persecution and hate were rife,
	Until they took his precious life.
	And the testimonies we’ve heard from you.
	Leave not a doubt that thy words are true.
	And may thy life still longer be.
	That our youth may learn those truths from thee;
	For few there are who saw and heard,
	Yet live to speak those precious words.
	And should you live till the Savior comes,
	Or should you soon be called home,
	May love and peace and joy be thine;
	For well thou hast earned those joys sublime.
	And whether on earth or in heaven above,
	Thou hast earned a crown and a people’s love.


TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER JOHN.
	The members of the Relief Society of
the Utah Stake successfully surprised their
president, Mary John, and the other Stake
officers, Dec. 23, 1904, it being the anniver-
sary of Sister John’s birthday, as well as the
Prophet Joseph Smith’s.
	A delightful program was rendered, con-
sisting of songs, readings, instrumental
music and addresses. An interesting feat-
ure was the reading of a manuscript paper,
expressing sentiments of love and respect
for Sister John and the other officers.
	After the program, a delicious dinner was
served to about three hundred people.
Toasts and short speeches made the time
pass all too soon.
	Emma J. Bennett, chairman; the presi-
dents of the six wards of Provo, committee.
		MARY SMOOT GLAZIER, Sec.
	The following was a tribute of love writ-
ten for Sister John:
		TO DEAR SISTER JOHN.
The harvest was ripe, the Master came,
And cailed the Reapers in Christ's dear name,
You heard and answered the sacred call.
You laid on the altar your heart, your all.
You have fed His lambs and His hungered sheep;
Have dried the tears of His loved ones who weep;
With a Saint’s sweet faith you have banished fear,
When hops was silent and death stood near,
The living you’ve solaced, have clothed and fed,
Have folded the hands of the silent dead;
The meek and the lowly have been [-]our care,
Loving and giving your life’s best prayer.
Your mother-love, like a beacon star.
Has sent its light into paths afar,
hose vou have guided and given rest,
Will rise, dear sister, to call you blest.
The sunset is closing about your life.
Your life of toil and of mortal strife,
A sunset of beauty, of wond’rotts light,
That turns to glory all gloom of night.
We come to greet you this natal day,
A humble tribute in love to pray,
Your hand to clasp and your heart to cheer.
To honor a life that is near and dear.
God bless you, sister, aye, may you hear,
The whisper of angels forever near,
May peace, like a halo, surround your way,
And fill your soul, is the prayer we pray.
						ARIETTA YOUNG.


R. S. REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Uintah
stake was held at Maeser ward, Nov. 24,
1904, president Sarah M. Colton presiding.
Singing, prayer by Patriarch Nelson Merk-
ley,  singing. Minutes approved. Presi-
dent Colton welcomed the sisters and re-
ported the stake as being in good condition.
Sister Addie Longhurst gave a lecture on
the duties of Relief Society workers. Pres-
dents of Vernal, Mountain Dell, and Jen-
sen wards reported their wards as being in
good condition. Essay by Sister Mary J.
Searle of Mountain Dell. Counselor Agnes
Bennion spoke of the evils that surround
us, said we should be patient with our
children. Patriarch Nelson Merkeley spoke
at some length of the prophecies of ancient
and modern times and their fulfilment.
	Singing and adjournment until 2 o’clock.
Benediction by Sister Abbie Oaks.
	Afternoon session.—We continued con-
ference.  Singing, prayer by Elder John
Galloway. Singing “Praise to tLe man
who communed with Jehovah.” Minutes
read and approved. The general and local
officers were sustained.
	Recitation: Maggie Billings of Jensen:
the presidents of Naples and Glines report-
ed their wards as being in fair condition.
Sister Caroline Stringam spoke of the good
derived from attending meetings and Sab-
bath school referred to some of the Savior’s
sayings. Bishop S. D. Colton gave all pres-
ent some good counsel on different subjects.
Counselor John Galloway spoke of the good
the Relief Society was doing. Counselor
Nancy A. Colton spoke of character and
reputation. Sister Kate Calder spoke of
the young people aud of charity.
	Pres. Colton gave some instructions to
the sisters in regard to their duties. Ap-
pointed next conference to be held inGlines
ward.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing ‘[-]The time is far spent,” Benedic-
diction by Bishop S. D. Colton.
		TETON STAKE
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence was held at Driggs, March 9th, 1905,
There was a good representation from all
the branches of the Teton Valley. Jackson
Valley was not represented on account of
the road being so bad over the divide. The
stake Presidency, a number of the high
council and also a number of Bishops were
in attendance. All the branches in the
Stake but one were reported as being in a
prosperous condition. Each one of these
had a subject prepared such as “True
charity,’’ Appreciation of officers,” Duties
of motherhood,” etc. The subjects were
well presented. The vocal selections by
Sister Annie Buxton were enjoyed by the
audience. It was the largest congregation
and the most enjoyable conference that the
Teton Stake Relief Society has had since
the organization of our stake. The house
was well filled. The instructions which
were very spicy were enjoyed by all.
	Our beloved Pres. Sophia E. Rigby has
recovered of late from a severe attack of
typhoid fever which was contracted while
she was nursing her daughter Eva, who
was so seriously afflicted that in a few days
she was taken to the great beyond where
she will receive the crown which is enjoyed
by the righteous.
			LYDIA E. FULLMER, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1905


A HAPPY ANNIVERSARY.
	We regret not having published in this
issue the birthday celebration of our beloved
President Bathsheba W. Smith; the anni-
versary of her 83rd birthday occurred May
third of the present month, and the event
was beautifully observed with most pleasing
and appropriate exercises in Provo on May
Day both at the Brigham Young Univer-
sity, and at the Tabernacle, with an elabo-
rate reception in the evening. Presidents
Joseph F. Smith and John R. Winder hon-
ored the occasion by accepting the invita-
tion of Sister B. W. Smith’s counselor,
Sister Ida S. Dusenberry, who planned this
happy affair in honor of her President.
	On her real birthday anniversary May
third, there was a very pleasant gathering
of about one hundred of her relatives and
friends at the handsome residence of Broth-
er and Sister W N. Williams, and again
this reverend mother in Israel received an-
other ovation, which we hope to give to our
readers more complete, as also the celebra-
tion in Provo.


[Column 1]
	HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS.
	Our readers are undoubtedly all aware
that this number of the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT completes the thirty-third volume, and
whatever may be said of this little periodi-
cal, or whatever critici[-]m may be made, one
thing must be said if truth is told, it has al-
ways stood tor the principles of right and
never pandered to the vitiated tastes and
frivolities of modern society, or entered
into any arguments that would lead to con-
troversy adverse to the best interests of the
community in which it is circulated, as a
medium of information for women and the
organizations established for their helpful-
ness, and their higher education in all that
will develop the best qualities of woman’s
nature; and whatever is best for women is
always best for society at large, and assur-
edly in the home circle.
	This paper is essentially “Mormon,” as
the term is used, and it is the aim of the
editor to make every effort towards main-
taining the spirit of the Latter-day work in
its columns, so that no harm may or can be
done to the most delicate mind in perusing
its contents.
	The women’s organizations of the Church
are and should be conducted on such lines
as breathe the true spirit of the everlasting
Gospel, inculcating faith in God, and in the

[Column 2]Savior of mankind. The light that has
come into the world in this last dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times, must be diffused
through those who have accepted the teach-
ings of prophets and apostles raised up in
this day, and therefore all who write and all
who teach and exhort should be careful of
their words and of tbe spirit which accom-
panies them.
	The women of Zion have been highly
favored in the privileges that have come to
them, even in this far off western land; at
an early date comparatively speaking they
were given equal suffrage, in February,
1870, and very soon after this little paper
was started, in which they had the oppor-
tunity of expressing their views on all ques-
tions which pertained to their conditions
aud circumstances, and their future hopes
and prospects.
	The bound volumes of the EXPONENT
extending back to June, 1872, contain many
very able articles from the pen of the wom-
en pioneers and heroines of the e rly days of
the Church, which are valuable history and
these pages have been read by huudreds of
women outside the church, who have been
interested in suffrage and organized work
among women, particu[-]arly charitable and
philanthropic people. A complete file of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was on exhibi-
tion at the Paris Exposition in 1900, and
at “The Hague.”
	In this and other ways this little mes-
senger of peace and truth has been bene-
ficial, and the sisters who have been actu-
ally engaged in public duties in the
Church, might gather much useful inform-
ation by reading the articles written by the
sisters who live here and those who travel
abroad.
	If more of the sisters would devote a lit-
tle time to waiting it would be a help and
development for themselves and add to the
variety which is always pleasing, and pos-
sibly be the means of doing great good, for
assuredly writing good things is like “cast-
ing bread upon the waters,” it may reach a
hungry soul longing for comfort, and it is
perhaps sowing good seed that may spring
up and bear fruit. Dear sisters, you who
desire to do good by developing your ideas
and adding to the storehouse of knowledge
for the benefit of others, write for our little
paper and give your testimonies and such
incidents in your experience as are valuable
for record, and would be helpful to our
many readers here and elsewhere, for the
EXPONENT is read in many lands.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The very large and magnificent afternoon
reception given at the handsome home of
Dr. and Mrs. C. F. Wilcox on Saturday,
May 13, at 2 p. m. when so much was done
to give pleasure to the limited guests must
also be mentioned in June, it was a very
delightful affair.
	D. R. meeting on April 19th in commem-
oration of the Battle of Lexington and the
regular meeting on May 16th, the last of
the season before adjourning for the sum-
mer, with the exception of the annual meet-
ing to be held June 10, for the election of
officers for the ensuing year will appear in
the next number of the paper.
	Last of these interesting affairs was the
ninetieth anniversary of Elder Nathan Tan-
ner, veteran of Zion’s camp, the celebration
was given at the home of Hon. F. S. Rich-


ards and wife and was certainly a most
unique party in many respects. We shall
try to publish full particulars and make it
a matter of record as he is the only surviv-
ing member of that wonderful pilgrimage
in 1834.
	The graduating exercises of the Relief
Society nurses’ class whi[-]h were held in
Barratt Hall, May 18, at 10:30 in the morn-
ing were of a most interesting character and
we hope to make an extended mention of
this cl[-]ss and what has been accomplished
in that line of work in the June number.
The beautiful reception given the nurses by
their Instructor Dr. Margaret Roberts at
her fine residence the same evening to which
some of her friends and patrons of the nurse
work were invited, will also be fittingly pre-
pared for the paper.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief So-
ciety convened in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city on Wednesday, April 5,
1905, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Bathsbeba W. Smith presiding. The
handsome new Relief Society banner was
hung conspicuously on the organ, and ad
ded much to the appearance of the back-
ground of the stand, which was ornamented
with potted palms and plants.
	Meeting opened with congregational sing-
ing, “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.” Prayer by Sister Susan Grant,
singing, “O ye mountains high,” etc.
	President B. W. Smith made the address
of welcome, expressed herself pleased to see
so many present at the morning session, and
would like to take them all by the hand and
hear from each one, but knew there would
not be time; she always rejoiced to meet
with the Relief Society, and prayed that the
Lord would give His Spirit to those assem-
bled that they might be happy together,
and if any one had not a testimony of the
truth, that they might receive one; above
all she desired we might keep the faith,
and we must have true love for each other,
said “I bless you, my sisters, with all the
power and authority I have, and may we
all keep the faith and be saved in the celes-
tial kingdom.”
	Roll call by the secretary.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde introduced
President Susannah T. Booth, of Box Elder
Stake, who made a concise report of the
condition of the Society there, giving in de-
tail a financial statement, and also spoke of
the activity of the sisters in that locality.
	Counselor Hyde then introduced Presi-
dent Lucy S. Cardon, of Cache Stake, who
followed in a similar strain, reporting
briefly the temporal and spiritual conditions.
	President Susan Grant, of Davis Stake,
was next introduced, and gave substantial-
ly the same sort of report.
	President Nellie C. Parkinson, of Hyrum
Stake, introduced. Sister Parkinson spoke
of the wheat stored up and of the lectures
given to young mothers, the progress made
and her hopes of the future.
	President Mary E. Sorenson, Emery Stake,
reported seven granaries and five Relief So-
ciety halls owned by the Society, other
things most encouraging.
	Counselor H. Huldah Larson gave an
equally good report of Jordan Stake.
	Kanab Stake, reported by the secretary,


[Column 1]
Mercy Spencer, the president could not
come, they were very far from headquarters
and away from railroads, in an isolated
locality and many adverse circumstances to
contend with, but withal were trying to
serve the Lord. All these presidents were
courteously introduced to the conference.
	Sister Nellie Druce Pugsley, one of the
sweet singers of Israel, sang a solo, “Home
So Dear,” accompanied on the organ by
Sister Vilate Nebeker Bennion, as an encore
she gave, “The Swallow to God leaves her
young within her nest,” the music was
much appreciated.
	Morgan Stake was represented by Presi-
dent Lydia Rich, who spoke especially of
the interest taken by the brethren of the
Stake in their meetings and conferences,
they were often visited by members of the
High Council or Patriarchs.
	President Elizabeth Layton of St. Joseph
Stake, gave quite a full account of the work
of the Relief Society in that part of Arizo-
na, which was very interesting, and rather
out of the ordinary method of reports
which in a way are necessarily very simi-
lar.
	Granite Stake, represented by President
Emma S. Woodruff, was also an exceed-
ingly interesting report, and the amount of
work accomplished seemed almost incredi-
ble, but the activity of the sisters in charit-
able and philanthropic work and the ability
they have to accumulate means is becoming
well known:
	President Clarissa S. Williams, of Salt
Lake Stake, one of those recently or-
ganized by the division of the former
greater Salt Lake Stake, gave her report,
it is not quite a year old yet, but has made
in that short time a fine showing along sev-
eral lines, in making charity visits and
among the sick, and the means disbursed
during just about eight months since they
have been in working order has been very
considerable.
	Panguitch Stake, reported by the secre-
tary, Margaret Haycock, like some other
stakes in places remote from railroads, the
people have many difficulties to meet and
overcome, consequently cannot progress in
some ways quite as rapidly, but spiritually
are doing just as well, which is after all the
main thing.
	President Louisa Benson, Oneida Stake,
reported some progress in young moth-
ers coming forward and taking active
part, and also more grain being stored
than heretofore, and altogether a little im-
provement all around.
	President Jane S. Richards, Weber Stake,
referred to the first organization of the So-
ciety in Nauvoo, though there were oniy a
few members they had the spirit of the
work, and the Prophet Joseph to meet with
them from time to time. In regard to
Weber County they had a good-sized Relief
Society hall in that Stake, and at the last
officers’ meeting there was not standing room
there were so many present. She felt
we could not be too energetic in charity
work, visit the aged and comfort them as
well as the needy and the sick.
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. Sing-
ing, “We thank thee, O God,” etc. Bene-
diction by Sister Carrie S. Thomas.

	Afternoon session, 2 p, m., opened by
singing, Professor C. J. Thomas leader,
with members the Tabernacle choir,

[Column 2]
Hymn, “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah. Prayer by Dr. Margaret
C. Roberts, singing by the choir, “Give me
thy heart.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke up
on visiting the sick and needy. “My dear
sisters, I am very much pleased to see so
many here, and I feel to bless you all for
the work you are doing in this labor of
love. I have brought something to read to
you from the Prophet’s sayings.” She
then read: “The sectarians have no charity
for me, but I have for them, and I intend
to send men to them in the spirit world
that they may receive the Gospel by proxy,
that they may be redeemed and come into the
kingdom-” The Prophet also said he in-
tended to make of this society one accord-
ing to the ancient priesthood, a kingdom of
priests. Sister Smith remarked that all
who were present on the day when the
Prophet Joseph organized the society had
passed away, every one except herself,
many hundreds were added to the society
in Nauvoo afterwards, but when we came
away from there the society was broken up,
after we came here it was organized again
in wards, and so on. “Look around this
house and you will see what has been 
the result, and we have never been left yet
without a prophet, and we don’t expect to
be. The Prophet Joseph said every virtu-
ous woman ought to belong to the Relief
Society, and we have kept it select, and we
want to be, and to keep ourselves pure. I
have worked with my hands and not
dressed much, or thought much about it.
When I was a young girl I was anxious to
go to Z[-]on and wanted to go with my sis-
ter, and I felt like my heart would break
when I was disappointed, and a voice just
said to me, ‘Don’t cry, you will go and
right away too,’ and it cheered me up, and
I felt happy, and it came to pass, and al-
most as soon as we arrived in Missouri the
mob came, but I felt that Mormonism was
true. The mob took the Prophet and
others and put them in prison and treated
them awfully, and finally after many trials
and persecutions and we were driven from
the state, we got a home again in Nauvoo,
then the enemy drove us again, and they
would do it now if they could, but they
will drive us together and we will have
more love, and we will keep in the path of
duty; this is my prayer, that we may be
saved in the celestial kingdom. Amen.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry: “The
baby that said in the Kindergarten, ‘I love
everybody here,’ certainly expressed my
feeling for everyone here. Faith sustains
us all through our lives, one of the sisters
reported that their missionaries visited the
schools, if you had all been teachers, as I
have, possibly you might know better than
you do what this means to the school and
the teachers; if this practice could be ad-
opted by our sisters, it would benefit the
child who always takes pride in being not-
iced; we want the child awakened spiritual-
ly, the mother asks when? It is a hard
question to answer. The mother can do
most.” The speaker referred to a conver-
sation she had with a young lady who had
been waiting ou an invalid mother eight
years, spoke of her as refinement itself, our
thoughts should be our guides, if we can
only set good examples of purity before
our children and have an influence of spir-
itual refinement and of gentleness, it will
give us some satisfaction in living.
	Sister Nellie Druce Pugsley, accompan-
ied by Miss Coray, gave a sublime and im-

[Column 3]
pressive rendering of “Ava Maria,” which
was highly appreciated.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams spoke speci-
ally upon Relief Society work, she realized
that those as[-]embled there wanted to get
something to help them, the Prophet Jos-
eph organized the Relief Society, some-
times we are narrow enough to think that
feeding the hungry and clothing the desti-
tute is all; but one thing is to be saviors of
all; if he had not had the confidence of those
who were with him, he could not have done
the work he did, our sisters, in their acts
of charity should carry with them the spirit
of saviors of Zion, honest and truthful; we
believe that in the years that this society 
has been established, the Prophet Joseph’s
sayings have been very helpful; he often
spoke of charity, and that if we saw a fault
we should not by word or deed magnify it,
he meant we should have the charity which
teaches us to love each other, there is a say-
ing that I saw on the wall of the Relief
Society hall in Beaver, containing the senti-
ments the Prophet implied when he taught
the society at that first meeting; the work
of ministering to the sick and afflicted is one
that needs attention, there are many ways
of caring for the sick and old people living
alone: if we could have a little home for
these aged ones it would be very gratify-
ing, we feel the need of it more in the
city; while the nurses do much of this
they are not always needed, and there are
many little kindnesses required that help to
sweeten one’s loneliness in declining years,
may we have wisdom to guide us in all our
work, we pray the Lord to bless our proph-
et in this day.
	An original poem by Sister E. B. Wells,
entitled “The Elect Lady,” and addressed
to the General President. Bathsheba W.
Smith, was read by the author.
	Sister Priscilla P. Jennings: “Bringing
the young women into the Relief Society
has been spoken of today, aud I want to
say a few words that will bring the young
women in with us. Why could we not
have a class in each ward for sewing, and
have a capable woman to take charge of the
work? We want to ensure happiness, we
have so many cares, so much work to do,
even the mending of stockings could be
done when a few come together, and have
a little pleasure in the meantime in associ-
ating together, mothers would be glad to
sit down for awhile; and even fine needle
work could be brought in; many young wo-
men have not had the opportunity of being
properly taught how to sew and mend, let
them learn these important things, that are
needed in the home. Don’t let our young
girls go to these public dances, let us guard
the steps of the young, we are here to save
our souls, let us reach out our arms in th'is
way; some do not wish the care of house-
keeping, but all these things are womanly,
let us have the sewing class, it will attract
the girls; I love the young people, love to
have them around me, these things are for
the betterment of women and betterment of
men. In looking upon this audience it
does not seem as if the Relief Society was
dead. I pray for our President and for
President Joseph F. Smith.”
	Professor Charles Kent, with his magni-
ficent voice accompanied by his wife, rend-
ered in the most feelingly expressive style,
the hymn composed by President John Tay-
lor, and familiar to all Latter day Saints,
“The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer."
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert, by special re-
quest, told of the first time this hymn was


sung, she was at the house of President
John Taylor, he had just composed it, and
sent for Brother John Kay to sing it, and it
thrilled every one wonderfully then, and it
has been sung so much and always seems
to have that peculiar effect, the speaker al-
luded to having known all the Prophets
and Apostles in the Church; expressed great
emotion in relating some instances of her
experience.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth was called
unexpectedly, she loved the Relief Society,
thought there was no love so great as that
between parents and children, the family
government does not devolve alone upon
the father, but often more upon the mother,
explained very clearly some of her thoughts
upon this subject and of the children in the
home.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made the clos-
ing speech, expressed herself delighted
with the reports given, and believed there
was a marked progress being made in the
society, thought if we would always have a
song in our hearts it would be helpful all
the time. “Sisters, don’t get so tired you
can’t speak a kind word to your children;
we want to establish something to throw a
safeguard around our young girls who come
here to go out to service and to obtain situ-
ations in offices, and so on, and we are mak
ing an effort to do this and many other
things.” 
	Conference closed with the rendering of
the beautiful melody, “Joy and Light,” by
Prof. C. J. Thomas assisted by Miss Green,
Mrs. John R. Winder, and Bishop James
Maxwell.
	The Relief Society is greatly indebted to
Prof. Thomas and some of the finest singers
in the Temple choir for the beautiful music
they have given from time to time, which
has added so much to the meetings, and
their efforts have been greatly appreciated
by all those who have listened to the sweet
tones.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Benediction pronounced by Sister Priscilla
Smith.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.

Lecture I.—Home.
	Family Organization. (a) The father,
his authority, his position, his rights. (b)
The mother, her position and rights. (c)
The children, their position and rights.

Lecture II.—Prayer,
	(a) The power and influence. (b) Be-
lief and faith through the same. (c) When
shall children take part in family prayer?

Lecture III —Physical Development.
	(a) Methods of proper bathing. (b)
Building a healthy body. (c) Proper food
and sleep.

Lecture IV.— Moral Development.
	(a) Reverence for Deity. (b) Reverence
for places of worship. (c) Respect for pub-
lic property.

Lecture V.—Domestic Economy.
	(a) What is it? (b) How may it be ap-
plied in the home? (c) Distinguish econo-
my from stinginess.

Lecture VI.—Marriage.
	(a) Love and courtship. (b) Continu-
ality. c) The ability to make a home and

[Column 2]
care for the same. (d) Marry one of your
own faith.

Lecture VII.—Social Purity.
	(a) How shall we create a higher moral
standing? (b) The aim of parents should
be to arrange and control the environments
of the young people, cure their faults, culti-
vate their talents and develop their virtues.

Lecture VIII.— Sacredness of Honor
	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to get
the children’s confidence. (c) How to up-
root evil by planting good.

Lecture IX.—Dress and Habits,
	(a) Dress for comfort and health. (b)
How habits are formed. (c) Man a bundle
of habits.

Lecture X.—Obedience.
	(a) Parents should set the example by
being obedient to their Heavenly Father.
(b) Children have rights which are often
called “disobedience.” (c) All are not
gifted in the same line. (d) Do not force
children to learn something they have no
inclination or talent for.

Lecture XI.—What does the Mother read?
	(a) Mother’s lack of knowledge. (b)
Mothers reading cheap novels. (c) Mother
as teacher to her children.

Lecture XII.—Books as companion and
teacher.
	(a) Minds are made up largely of what
is put into them. (b) What books should
our children read? (c) The influence of
bad literature.
	Nancy Pugmire, Marie L. Brown, A. C.
Stucki, Committee.

		BLACKFOOT.

Lecture I. Prayer.
	“Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire,
		Uttered or unexpressed,
	The motion of a hidden fire,
		That trembles in the breast.”

	“Prayer is the key to heaven.” Occa-
sion and object of prayer. Reference:—
Luke 18: 17 38 verses; Gen. 18: 23; Sam.
1st chapter; Doctrine and Covenants, Sec.
52: 59; Sec. 58; 33. Pray always.

Lecture 2. Charity.
“Soft peace it brings wherever it arrives,
It bids our quiet—‘latent hope revive,’
Lays the rough path of nature—‘smooth and even,’
And opens in each breast a little heaven.”

	“Charity is the golden chain from heaven
to earth.” “Charity never faileth.” Ref-
erence:—I Cor. 13th Chapter.

Lecture 3. Occupation.
	Be what nature intended you for and you
will succeed. The dignity of occupation
should be judged by its usefulness. Do not
waste time, money and energy in endless
changes and wanderings, but find what
you are adapted for and pursue that with
the energy of your whole soul. “Occupation
in the home.” “Occupation iu the busi-
ness world.” “Occupation in church and
society.”

Lecture 4. Use of Time.
	Time is a blessed heritage from our
heavenly Father. It is a probation,—use
it well. Wise use of time. Unwise use of
time. Indifferent use of time or lack of
purpose in action, “The idle shall not eat

[Column 3]
the bread of industry.” References:—Doc-
trine and Covenants, Sec. 56: 29; Doctrine
and Covenants. Sec. 48: 30-31.

Lecture 5. Wisdom.
	Wisdom is a gift of God.—James 1: 5.
If any man lack wisdom let him ask
of God that giveth to all men liberally and
upbraideth not and it shall be given him.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
wisdom. Read from Doctrine and Cove-
nants 42: 68. Wisdom is defined as the
right use and exercise of knowledge. Re-
fer to Proverbs 4: 5, 14, second chapter.

Lecture 6. Virtue.
	Prov. 31: 10. Who can find a virtuous
woman, for her price is above rubies.	We
should ever be diligent in training our
children to guard their virtue as they would
their lives. Refer to 2 Peter, 1: 5; also
Phil. 14: 8. “Virtue will bring its own
reward.”

Lecture 7. Character.
	The mother in her office holds the key of
the soul and it is she who stamps the coin
of real character. What is character?
Character is defined as follows: “The pe-
culiar qualities impressed by nature or
habit, on a person which distinguish him
from others; these constitute real charac-
ter.” Our environments and education
have much to do with our character.
				ANN T. WALKER.

Lecture 8. Faith.
	Faith, what is it? Faith is the substance
of things hoped for the evidence of things
not seen.—Heb. 11: 1-6; Rom. 10: 19; 2
Cor. 5: 7; Jas. 1: 5-7. Healing through
faith.—Matt. 9: 20-22; Mark 5: 34; 10:
46-52; Luke 8: 45-50. Power exercised
through faith. And Jesus said unto them,
becau[-]e of your unbelief for verily I say
unto you, if ye have faith as a grain of
mustard seed you can say unto this moun-
tain, remove hence to yonder place and it
shall remove and nothing shall be impossi-
ble unto you.—Matt. 18: 20; Mark 9: 23;
Luke 17: 6; John 14: 12, Acts 3: 16; Doc.
and Cov. Sec. 8: 10-52; 103: 36. Salvation
promised through faith. Behold his soul
which is lifted up is not upright in him,
but the just shall live by his faith.—Hab.
2: 4; John 3: 14-16; Acts 10: 43; Rom.
1: 16-17. Faith alone insufficient. Not
everyone that saith Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the Kingdom of Heaven, but he that
doeth the will of my Father which is in
heaven.—Matt. 7: 21: John 7: 17; Rom.
2: 5-11; James 2: 14-26; Doc. and Cov. 29:
43-45.

Lecture 9. Repentance.
	Nature of repentance. Let the wicked for-
sake his ways and the unrighteous man his
thoughts and let him return unto the Lord
and He will have mercy upon him, and to
his God and He will abundantly pardon.—
Isaiah 55: 7; Cor. 7: 9 11; Eph. 4 25-32;
Alma 7: 15; Book of Mormon. Necessity
of repentance. And Peter said unto them,
Repent and be baptized every one of you
in the name of Jesus Christ for the remis-
sion of your sins and ye shall receive the
gift of the Holy Ghost. Acts 2: 38; 17:
30; II Nephi 31: 17; 9: 23-24; 31: 17.
Repentance the gift of God. When they
heard these things they held their peace
and glorified God, saying, then hath God
also to the Gentiles granted repentance un-


to life.—Acts II: 18; Rom. 2: 4; Tim. 2:
25. The repentant forgiven.—I Kings 8:
47-50; Luke 15: 7; Alma 5: 33-84-36. The
repentant favored. Yea, he that lepenteth
and exerciseth faith and bringeth forth good
works and prayeth continually without
ceasing, unto such it is given to know the
mysteries of God, etc.—Alma 26: 21-22;
III Nephi 16: 13; Ether 5: 5.

Lecture 10. Baptism.
	Necessity of baptism  Then came Jesus
from Galilee to Jordan unto John to be
baptized of him, etc. Matt 3: 13-17; Mark
16: 16; John 3: 3-5; Acts 3: 38; 1 Peter 3:
21. Subjects of baptism. Matt. 3: 7, 8
Mark 2: 29; 6: 2, 3; Doc. & Cov. 20: 3.7
Infant baptism. Mormon 8: 7-11; Doc. &
68: 27. Object of baptism. John did bap-
tize in the wilderness and preach the bap-
tism of repentance for the remission of
sins. Mark 1: 4; Luke 2: 3; Acts 22: 16,
II Nephi 25, 24; 3: 5 17. Mode of bap-
tism. And Jesus, when He was baptized,
went straightway out of the water, etc;
Matt. 3: 16; 3: 5, 6; John 3: 3-5; 23; Acts
 8: 36-39; 22: 19; Rom. 6: 3-5. Authority
essential to baptism. Acts 18: 23, 25; 19:
1-6; Mosiah 18: 13-17; 31: 33; Alma 4: 4;
15: 13; III Nephi 7: 25; 11: 21, 22-25.

Lecture 11. Confirmation.
	Confirmation follows baptism. And he
said unto them, Have ye received the Holy
Ghost since ye believed? And they said
unto him, We have not so much as heard
whether there be any Holy Ghost, etc.
Acts 19: 2-6; 8: 14-16; Mark 7 10 Doc.
& Cov. 20: 41-49; 14: 52. Baptism of the
Holy Ghost. John 1: 33, Acts 1: 5; II
Nephi 31:13 13; III Nephi 12:1; 19:13. 14.
The Holy Ghost received through the
laying on of hands. And when Paul had
laid his hands upon them the Holy Ghost
came on them and they spake with tongues
and prophesied. Acts 19: 6; 8: 15-20; Heb
6: 1:4.

Lecture 12. Review Entire Lectures.
			ANN T. WALKER,
			HATTIE C. JENSEN,
			LUCY W. STEERS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A SAD DEATH.
	Sister Sarah M. Hammond, Secretary of the
First Ward Relief Society of the Liberty Stake of
Zion, departed this life May 1, 1905.
	Sister Hammond was the daughter of Daniel and
Sarah Hammond, of Millville, Cache county. She
was born in Ogden on the 11th of July, 1861, and
was reared a Latter-day Saint, her parents being
among the pioneers who crossed the plains in
ox teams. She was a dutiful and loving daughter.
At the age of 24 she became the wife of Dates R.
Hammond, son of Milton D. Hammond, of Prov-
idence. The marriage was solemnized in the
Logan temple. Owing to the business of Brother
Hammond they traveled a good deal of the time,
coming back occasionally to the old homestead.
About eight years ago they finally settled in Salt
Lake City.
	Sister Hammond was a Saint in very deed. She
was loved by all who knew her, and especially by
the sisters of the Relief Society, who lose in her
not only a friend but a good hard worker.
	She was elected secretary of the First Ward Re-
lief Society on February 1, 1902, occupying that
position up to the time of her death. Her books
were always kept very neat, correct, and up to
date. She leaves a husband and four sons, the
oldest being 19 and the youngest ten days old; also
two brothers and four sisters and a host of friends
to mourn her loss
	Her married life was an exceptionally happy
one, and may our Father comfort the bereaved in
this their hour of trial,
		MARY K. STELTER, Asst, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
		SARAH JANE HALLIDAY.

Like weary and worn-out children, that sigh for
	the daylight’s close.
He knows that they oft are longing for home and
	its sweet repose;
So He calls them in from their labors, ere the
	shadows o’er them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved one’s sleep.

	One cannot help feelings of solemnity in parting
with old and dear friends, however confident you
may be that all is well with the loved one that has
gone on before.
	Sister Sarah Jane Halliday, whose demise we
now record, passed away at her home in Santa-
quin, Utah, March 27, 1905, at the ripe age of
83. She was the wife of the late Patriarch George
Halliday, was born April 13, 1822, at Higham,
Leicestershire, England; baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, October 4,
1847; came to Utah in 1853, hence endured many
of the trials of pioneer life.

			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas the Supreme Ruler of the universe has
called from our midst our beloved Sister Sarah
Jane Halliday; and whereas she was a faithful
teacher in the Santaquin Ward Relief Society,
performing that duty in her advanced age, never
tiring in well doing. Therefore we desire to
honor her memory. Her charity never failed;
she was ever willing to care for t e sick and to
help the widow and fatherless, thereby gaining
the goodwill and affection of her associates. Her
great desire was to remain true and faithful to the
Gospel of Christ. This she has done, and labored
devotedly for the advancement of the work of
God.
	Therefore, be it resolved by the sisters of the
Santaquin Ward Relief Society that we tender to
her bereaved sons and daughters our heartfelt
sympathy, and trust that they will be comforted
in the assurance that their mother is not dead,
but has gone to a brighter and better world; be it
further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
enrolled upon the records of the Society, and also
published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			ALICE ELLSWORTH, Secretary.
	Santaquin, Utah, May 13 1905.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

TO THE MEMORY OF MARGARET P. EVANS. WHO DE-
	PARTED THIS LIFE MARCH 8TH, 1905.

	Sister Margaret P. Evans, who departed this
life March 8th, 1905, to join her loved ones who
had gone before, was a woman of great strength
of character and uncommon executive ability. She
will be missed in various ways and in many
places.
	She was a woman of great integrity to the Gos-
pel, and of a generous nature. Her go d deeds
will live in the memory of many whom she help-
ed without letting her right hand know what her
left hand doeth, according to the scripture.
	Sister Evans was teacher and efficient treasurer
in the Relief Society for many years, which office
she held at the time of her death.
	She was also a member of the Ward Choir and
took an active part in the Sunday School and the
Y. L. M. I. A.
	The Relief Society officers of Timpanogus
Ward, to which she belonged, wishing to do honor
to her memory, have prepared the following

			RESOLUTIONS:
	Whereas, Our much esteemed sister and co-lab-
orer has by the hand of Divine Providence been
removed from our midst and has, we feel confi-
dently assured, gone to a better world, we, her
sisters, who know her many loving deeds and ap-
preciate her many noble qualities, desire to express
our tender sympathy for the bereaved family and
to acknowledge her labors and ministrations of
kindness as a member of the Relief Society and
also as a friend and neighbor in the best sense of
the word. Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we humbly testify that Charity
and Humility were leading traits of her character.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family of the deceased, and
the sisters of the society to which she belonged
may we follow her noble example of diligence and
faithfulness.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be recorded in


the Relief Society record and also be presented to
the family and published in the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT.
				PHOEBE KARTCHNER,
				EMMA POULSEN,
				TEMPERANCE EVANS.
				JULIA LOVELESS.
	In behalf of the Timpanogus Ward Relief So-
ciety.


UTAH COMMISSION, LEWIS AND CLARK
			EXPOSITION.
	One hundred years ago, Meriwether
Lewis and William Clark, under the direc-
tion of President Thomas Jefferson, crossed
the continent, explored the northwest, and
won for this nation the magnificent empire
that stretches from the backbone of the
continent to the prolific waters of the Pacific
ocean. An inspiring page ot American
history tells of the achievement of these
pioneers.
	Proud of this achievement, and reveling
in the prosperity that followed it, the peo-
ple of the northwest have completed plans
for the celebration of the centennial anni-
versary of the arrival of the pioneers in an
exposition to be held in the city of Port-
land, opening June 1 and closing O[-]tober
15. The sum of $5,000,000 has been se-
cured for the purpose The promise is
given that the display of the resources of
the West and of the Orient will be the
greatest in history.
	Utah is peculiarly interested in this ex-
hibition. There is much in the story of
the heroes who won the west for our nation
to appeal with force to the people of this
state—children and beneficiaries of a simi-
lar band of state builders. In addition to
this, Utah holds much in common with
the states of the West. In all branches of
industry, socially and politically, the states
of the Pacific slope are linked in the closest
ties. Most travelers from the East and
South will pass through Utah when they
visit Portland next summer.
	The legislature appropriated $30,000 to
enable this state to make an exhibit at this
exposition. As a basis, the commissioners
have in their possession part of the dis-
play made at St. Louis last year. They
have arranged for the erection of a state
building on a choice spot at the fair, and
in this one building will be arranged all
that Utah has to show.
	The citizens of the entire state are urged
to co-operate with the commsssioners to
the end that Utah, the baby sister in the
family of commonwealths, may appear to
advantage in the eyes of visitors from all
parts of the civilized world. The time is
short, and prompt action is urged. All ex-
hibits intended for the fair should be in the
hands of the commissioners in Salt Lake
not later than May 15 As far as possible,
members of the commission or those placed
in charge of particular departments will
visit the different parts of the state and ex-
plain in detail what is especially desired in
the way of exhib[-]ts.
	In the meantime, the headquarters of the
commission will be in the City and County
Building in Salt Lake, adjoining the office
of the Governor. There all interested in
the exhibit will be made welcome, and
there will be found some one ready and wil-
ling to furni[-]h information desired.
	John C. Cutler, Chairman, Wesley K.
Walton, Rudolph Cutler, Webb Greene, F.
W. Fishburn, commissioners for Utah.
	M. F. Cunningham, secretary, Spencer
Clawson, manager.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE NATIONAL CONVENTION.
	The 37th Annual Convention of the Na-
tional American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in the First Congregation-
al Church, Portland, Oregon, June 28 to
July 5, inclusive.
	A cordial invitation is extended to all
who believe in the inalienable right of wo-
men to self-government, and also those not
yet in sympathy with the purposes of this
association,
	A government of men and women—not
by women alone, not by men alone, but a
government of men and women, by men
and women, for men and women—this is
the aim and ideal of our association. 
	The movement for the enfranchisement
of women is based upon the unchangeable
principles of human liberty, in accordance
with which successive classes of men have
won the right of self-government.
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
				Honorary President.
	REV. ANNA HOWARD SHAW,
						President.
	CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT,
					Vice-President.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL,
				Recording Secretary.
	KATE M. GORDON,
			Corresponding Secretary.
	HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON,
						Treasurer.
	LAURA CLAY,
	CORA SMITH EATON,
						Auditors.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also childrenwho are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


[Column 1]
TRIBUTE TO SISTER CAROLINE PACE.
	“Sister Caroline Pace is dead.” These
words brought sorrow to every household
that was wont to receive succor in the past
from the hand of the departed, and they
were multitudes.
	What a beautiful life was hers on earth!
A ministering angel in times of sorrow,
blessed with a gladsome soul for those who
could smile. She would brave the elements
in the fiercest of storms to alleviate the sor-
row and suffering of the poor and distressed,
without one thought of personal gain; the
knowledge that she could do some one some
good was sufficient for her.
	Imagine a woman whose every thought
was for the welfare of those about her;
whose hand and brain were never idle, but
always working for the accomplishment of
good; whose faith has accomplished wonders
at the bedside of the sick; whose presence
has lightened the cares and bandaged up
the hope of the convalescent; and whose
never failing faith in her Heavenly Father
made her a heroine in the presence of death
—such a woman was Aunt Caroline Pace.
Already we have asked; “Who will care
for the dead, now Sister Pace is gone?”
	Aunt Caroline, no grave stone need be
erected to perpetuate your memory—your
life’s labor form a grand monument, whose
beauty cannot be marred by the crumbling
influence of the elements, nor whose epitaph
can be effaced by the ever ceaseless flow of
the stream of time.

[Column 2]
	She is not lost, only gone before to a
greater sphere where her beautiful life will
grow more beautiful by contact with the
peaceful influence of Heavenly presence.
	God grant that she may rest in peace and
that we may live lives sufficiently pure to
meet with her in the spirit world for we
feel to say to meet her there will be to know
Heaven.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
president, Sister Caroline Pace.
	Whereas, We feel that we have lost one
of our most worthy members and devoted
workers.
	Therefore, Be it resolved by the members
of the Spanish Fork Second ward Relief
Society that we mourn her untimely death
but feel to say that our loss is the Father’s
gain and hence from this we gain some
comfort.
	Resolved, That we extend to the family
of the deceased our sincere sympathy.
	Resolved, Further that a copy of these
resolutions together with the above tribute
be spread upon the records of the society
and that a copy be printed in The Spanish
Fork Press, also WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Sweet friend of the needy, kind helper of youth,
Firm guardian of merit, bright lover of truth,
Thy sleep shall be peaceful, unbroken thy rest,
Thy spirit, disburdened, shall sleep on God’s
	breast.

Oh, well wo remember, sweet spirit, the light,
God lent us awhile ere it sank in the night—
The night we call death, yet in vain we see—
The day spring of glory envelopeth thee.

Sweet, sweet be thy slumber, unbroken thy rest,
Sleep sweet as a babe on the Savior’s kind breast,
God grant we may meet thee on Heaven’s bright
	shore,
To part with thee, dear one, in grief, nevermore.


[Column 1]
KAIZER WILLIAM’S STABLES.
	Opposite the Imperial Palace in Berlin,
the large five story building is that of the
Emperor’s stables.
	Up an inclined walk, we reach the second
story, where are housed the royal carriage
horses, seventy-eight in number. They are
large and coal black, each one wearing a
blanket, in the corner of which is embroid-
ered the Kaizer’s crest and a crown.
	In the third story are the saddle horses
used for riding and the chase. These are
not so large, and are of a lighter color. A
few at the farther end seem to have special
privileges, being in box stalls. One at
least is old, for he put out his tongue in a
caressing manner to any one who would
rub his nose, so we discovered he had no
teeth.
	On the next floor are the carriages, (a
great many.) The silver and blue decora-
tions denote the royal family, the red ones
the court. In another room are the court
and coronation coaches, of rare design and
lavishly emblazoned with gold. On the
next floor are the kitchen wagons, as they
are called. These are used by the hunting

[Column 2]
parties for conveying provisions. One is
very large and is capable of carrying enough
food to feed sixty persons for a week. One
hunting wagon has a complete boat in its
bed, the seats of the wagon being also the
seat of the boat. Upon being lifted out of
the wagon, the boat is ready for the water.
One very large kitchen wagon was the gift
of King Edward of England, but the guide
told us it had never been used. In this de-
partment are about a dozen handsome
sleighs, fine lap robes are thrown over these,
thus indicating that they are ready to be
taken out at a moment’s notice.
	The Kinderwagen, used by the Emper-
or’s children, is shown here, and the garden
wagon, used by Queen Louise, the uphol-
stery of which is tattered and faded. Be-
aides these are others belonging to royal
personages, and some invalid or Bath
chairs. In one corner is the horse on which
Frederick the Great was wont to ride, with
its embroidered saddle trappings. It seems
incredible that its form could be preserved
so long, being over two hundred and fifty
years, though now the hair is falling off its
back. In the opposite corner is shown
likewise the horse on which William I. rode
during the Franco-Prussian war.
	It is evident that horses have been im-
proved since those days, both in color and
in size, Much attention is paid to pedi-
grees. Each one of the present Emperor’s
horses has its name and pedigree on a sign
at the head of its stall. It seems odd to us
to see the hostlers with black broadcloth
trousers, and scarlet colored velvet jackets,
working among the horses.
	In another department the harness is
kept. One set is so heavy that it is said the
horses have to carry twenty pounds of lead
on their heads fora week to accustom them
to its weight. The coronation harness is
about half gold, to match the coach. The
silver and blue harness is used with the
royal carriages. There are four sets of sad-
dle harness, never used, which were pre-
sented to the Emperor by the Sultan of
Moscow. Their design is elegant, the ori-
ental work in them most ingenious and
beautiful. There is more harness displayed
used, as the guide said, on gala occasions
with the coaches also used then.
	All this finery is to come out when the
Crown Prince is married next May. Then
the people may behold where a mint of
wealth is lying useless save during the pa-
geant of a royal marriage.
				LYDIA D. ALDER. 
	Berlin, March. 1905.

