Vol. 33					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1905.						No. 7.


CONTENTS.
New Year’s Greeting.........................B. W. S.	49
Sketch of the Life of Elizabeth H. Hyde........	49
Mother’s Work—Snowflake Stake.................	51
Repentance Day.................................L. D. A.	51
R. S. Liberty Stake.........................................	51
General Relief Society Conference................	52
Musty Leaves, Brown with Age........E. B. W.	64
R S. Box Elder Stake......................................	55
The Doctrine and Covenants...............E. I. L.	55
Obiturary .......................................................	54
In Memoriam..................................................	55
EDITORIAL:—The New Year, 1905.............	52
	D. R. Society Meetings...........................	52
	Editorial Notes........................................	52
POETRY:—Twenty Years Ago.....E. R. Snow	49
	A Friendly Carol from Far Away...S.E R.	51
	Farewell to Forty-two..................L. D A.	51


TWENTY YEARS AGO.

WRITTEN BY REQUEST OF MRS. BATHSHEBA SMITH,
AND DEDICATED TO MRS. MARGARET F. SMOOT.

	Beneath the mountains crown’d with snow,
		With future prospects rife;
	The desert blossoms as the rose,
		And teems with joyous life. 
	Roll back the curtain of the past
		Where time’s swift changes flow,
	And take a retrospective cast
		Of twenty years ago.

	This, then was but a wild retreat,
		Where nature had no charms—
	Untrod by all but savage feet, 
		In most degraded forms.
	’Twas all a waste, a barren sod—
		A part of Mexico,
	Unsought by man—unblest of God 
		Till twenty years ago.

	In summer’s sunshine, crickets here,
		And snakes, their rights maintain’d;
	And o’er the winters, bleak and drear,
		Cold desolation reign’d. 
	Let fall the curtain—look and see
		The present bright tableau,
	Contrasted with the scenery
		Of twenty years ago.

	We’ve brav’d the desert’s trackless wilds— 
		We’ve tested untried soil,
	And here, a rich abundance smiles
		To compensate our toil.
	From bondage and oppression free—
		With friendship’s social flow
	We meet and chat with merry glee
		Of twenty years ago.

	The earth, its richest gifts bestows, 
		And plenty smiles around— 
	A sea of life among us flows--
		With love and beauty crown’d
	Thanks be to God the Holy One
		From whom all blessings flow,
	For what achievments we have won
		Since twenty years ago.
							E. R. SNOW.
G. S. L. City, July 24, 1867.


Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, has received
word that the Fifth Triennial of the Nat-
ional Council of Women of the United
States will open in Washington D. C.,
April 10th, 1905.


NEW YEAR’S GREETING.
READ AT THE JANUARY MEETING.
	I feel to extend to my sisters of the Relief
Society Board today wishes for a happy and
prosperous New Year.
	As president I can wish nothing better
for each and all of us than that we may
have the true Relief Society spirit.
	The true Relief Society spirit is to do
good to others.
	It has been said that ambitious women
would be found in our society.
	We build ourselves up surely, when we
administer to others.
	The Relief Society has no honors to con-
fer on members, except to offer a means by
which one may bless and comfort and pro-
vide for others.
	The position of an officer is in itself noth-
ing to a Relief Society worker; but what
she is able to do in that office is all to her
and to this society.
	If we live in simplicity and in truth and
love, naught can retard the work of our
hands in doing good. For even though
we offer little it will seem more.
	May we be able to work in harmony for
the advancement of the cause we are all in-
terested in.
	God bless you, and peace be with you.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	General President Relief Society.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF ELIZABETH H.
				HYDE.
	I was born in the town of Holliston,
Middlesex Co. Massachusetts, on the 2nd
day of Oct. 1813. My parents were Joel
and Lucretia Morton Bullard, my grand-
mother’s maiden name on my mother’s side
was Esther Godard, she married Samuel
Morton, who with two other brothers came
from England to America when young
men and settled in Athol, Mass. My grand-
father served in the Revolutionary war. My
father was born and always lived in Hollis
ton, Mass, he was a well to do farmer did
not belong to any church, but was a whole-
souled generous kind of a man, he died at
the age of 55, leaving my mother with
seven children three sons, and four daught-
ers; her second son Lyman died previous to
my father’s death at the age of 18 years.
	My mother was one of the best of wo-
men kind and affectionate in her family,
and beloved by all who had the pleasure of
her acquaintance; she early taught her
children to love and fear God and to live
upright and honorable lives; she was a
member of the Congregational Church, I
was a subject of serious impressions from
my earliest recollection, would often go to
my chamber and pray that the Lord would
direct me how to obtain a change of heart
which I earnestly sought after, as the min-
isters told us we must obtain in order to be
saved; but they did not tell us how to ob-
tain it, (not knowing themselves), thus
proving themselves blind leaders of the
blind. I continued praying however until
felt that light had broken into my mind
and I thought I had obtained that, that I

[Column 2]
had been so anxiously seeking after, ac-
cordingly I manifested a wish to become a
member of the church to which most of our
family belonged; this was when I was 17
years of age, the form of receiving members
was by going into the front aisle of the
church facing the pulpit and the minister
would read from a book called the church
covenants. I have forgotton all but one
clause, which reads, “That denying all un-
godliness and every worldly lust we would
live soberly, righteously and Godly in this
present evil world,’’ Then we would bow
our heads as a token of assent, we then par-
took of the sacrament and belonged to the
church and were saved, no falling away
from grace. Those who belonged to the
church had their children sprinkled in in-
fancy, I was one of that number, (conse-
quently did not need sprinkling when join-
ing the Church) and if any died without
being baptized, as they called it, their doom
was to go where fire and brimstone were
abundant. I was either a pupil, or a teach-
er, in the Sabbath School in the church to
which I belonged, until I became connect-
ed with the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints.
	In 1833, I went to Amherst Female Sem-
inary, in company with Elizabeth Haven,
af[-]erwards Sister Israel Barlow. The
first elders that I saw were President Brig-
ham Young and his brother Joseph, being
relatives of our family they stopped at our
house a short time, and conversed upon the
subject of their belief and sang beautifully.
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation’’
etc., their visit left a very favorable impres-
sion upon our minds. The next elder that
came to our house was Willard Richards he
was also a relative of our family, and had
often visited us before his connection with
the church; he commenced talking with
me asking me if I believed the Bible? I
replied I did, he then asked me if I believed
in miracles and the gifts of the Gospel? I
replied no! they are all done away with
and no longer needed. He said, Oh! I
thought you didn’t believe in the Bible, he
then said some pretty hard things as I then
thought about the ministers, that they
preached for hire and divined for money
and were blind leaders of the blind, this ex-
asperated me, as I had always looked upon
the ministers as being very near perfect, I
thought if that is your religion I don’t want
to know anything more about it, he then
quoted a good many passages of scripture,
for me to ponder upon; which after he had
gone, I examined and found that they
really were in the Bible, that I professed to
be so sanguine in believing, I then resolved
to know for myself whether this strange
doctrine was of God or not, I did not feel
inclined to leave my pleasant home and the
many associates of my childhood and youth
upon uncertainties. I obtained the Book
of Mormon and read it through attentively
thinking if I could find anything in it con-
trary to the Bible I was safe. But alas; I
could find nothing to contradict it, but
rather to confirm it. I had faith in God
that if I would humble myself before Him
in an acceptable manner that He would


[Column 1]
manifest unto me the truth, I accordingly
spent many hours each day in my chamber
searching the scriptures, and asking in
earnest prayer, that if this was the work of
God, I might know it for myself, I had
been thus employed when I arose from my
knees and opened my Bible to the fiftieth
Psalm fifth verse which reads, “Gather my
Saints together unto me, those who have
made a covenant with me by sacrifice.”
These words were accompanied with the
Spirit of God to that degree that my heart
rejoiced, and I knew for myself that this
was indeed the work of God. I was then
ready for baptism, I was wi[-]ling even anx-
ious to leave my pleasant home where I
had spent so many happy days and gather
with the Saints of God. This rejoiced the
heart of my dear mother for she being a
true Israelite believed the work from the
first. We accordingly went forth and were
baptized on the 30th day of June, 1338, by
Elder Joseph Ball, and from that day to this
September 24, 1904, I have never for one
moment doubted this work, or regretted the
sacrifice (if it can be called a sacrifice) of
leaving friends and home I would here
remark that Deacon Haven one of the pil-
lars of the Church to which we belonged
with several others were baptized at the
same time we were some having left prev-
iously, so exasperated our Pastor the Rev.
Mr. Storrs that he became very bitter
against us, he called a Church meeting to
deal with us; as we had made a request to
leave the Church; as I said some had been
baptized without the knowledge of the
Church, and I thought it was very wrong
in them to leave without giving their rea
sons for so doing, and I made the remark
if I ever joined that sect (which I thought
I never should), I would give my reasons
for leaving and stating why, so after I was
baptized I wrote a whole sheet of foolscap
paper giving my reasons for leaving also
my belief, and requested Mr. Storrs to read
it in the Church meeting, which he com-
plied with but in such a mumbling way it
could be hardly understood, (however I ful-
filled my promise) Deacon Haven arose in
their meeting and gave his reasons for
leaving the Church. This Deacon Haven
is the father of Jesse Haven also father of
A. P. Rockwood’s first wife Sisters Palmer
and Barlow and R. T. Burton’s first wife,
his leaving was a great loss to the Church
and they felt it very sensibly.
	We bade adieu to friends and relatives
leaving two sisters with their families and
a brother behind, and four families of us
started for Nauvoo in the spring of 1841.
Our family consisted of my mother, two
brothers, my eldest sister and family and
myself, eleven of us in all. We arrived in
Nauvoo sometime in May, and moved into
a little log cabin, with one room, we found
the people very poor, as they had been
driven from their homes in Missouri by
ruthless mobs, and all of their property de-
stroyed; they had just commenced settling
Nauvoo; our home was near the river close
by Brother Rockwood’s. The first Sabbath
went to meeting (it was held in a grove)
I was an entire stranger and there was no
one near me that I had ever seen before,
there were several Elders on the stand,
some of them had spoken, when the Prophet
Joseph Smith arose, and commenced to
speak, a feeling like electricity passed
through my whole being, and I knew for
myself that he was a Prophet of God; my
mother rejoiced that she had been permitted
to gather with the Saints of God, but her

[Column 2]
stay with them was short, she took with
the chills and fever, so prevalent in Nau-
voo, and died the 1st day of August of the
same year 1841, at the age of sixty-seven
I was sick at the same time with chills and
fever therefore unable to render her any
assistance.
	On the 23rd of February I was married
to Wm. Hyde, by Heber C. Kimball, and
in March 31st of the same year my brother
Isaac Bullard was married to Mary Ann
Hyde, sister to my husband, and in Octob-
er following, my husband and brother were
called to go on a mission to Mass and New
Hampshire. My brother fell from the stag-
ing of a barn he was building and injured
his head, brain fever followed and he soon
died, he was buried by the side of our dear
mother, my husband went on his mission,
was absent eight months, during which
time our eldest daughter Jane Elizabeth
was born; he returned in June and in
September following started on another
mission to the state of Vermont, and was
absent at the time of the martyrdom of
Joseph and Hyrum Smith, he returned on
the sixth of August in company with the
twelve who were also absent at that time.
The mourning there was in Nauvoo when
the sad news reached us, that our beloved
Prophet and Patriarch had been murdered
in cold blood in Carthage Jail, while under
the promised protection of the state, baffles
all description; every heart was over flow-
ing with sorrow and grief for the inhuman
deed, and their innocent blood stained the
floor of the jail and could not be washed
off
	In January, 1845, my husband started on
another mission to Mississippi and Alabama
for the purpose of collecting tithing for the
temple, also for the purpose of getting men
to spend the summer in Nauvoo as the mob
were continually threatening us. My hus-
band was gone this time two months and
had good suceess. July 12th, 1845, a little
daughter Angeline Frances, was born to
me. December 23rd, we received our
anointings in the temple, we were sealed
in celestial marriage on the 19th of January,
1846, and on the 22nd we received further
blessings, work commenced in the temple
the 9th Dec. 1845 and ended about the 8th
of Feb. 1846, my husband assisting in the
work in the temple most of the time until
it closed; in the winter and spring of 1846
the Saints were driven from Nauvoo, our
beautiful city, made so by the arduous toil,
privation and hardships of the Saints.
	We left the city on the 18th of May, and
arrived at Council Bluffs on the 12th of
July, and on the 16th of the same month
my husband enlisted in the Mormon Batta-
lion and on the 20th took up the line of
march, leaving me with two small children,
and in a delicate state of health living in a
wagon in an Indian country.
	Late in the fall my husband’s father and
brother Rosel Hyde, had put up a log
cabin, one room each which we moved into
father and mother Hyde occuping one room,
and Rosel’s family consisting of himself and
wife with three children and my little fam
ily the other. On the 7th of Jan., 1847,
Wm. Jun was born, Bro. Rosel and famil
were very kind to me also father and moth-
er Hyde did all they could for my comfort.
My husband was absent one year and five
months during which time he with the rest
of the Battalion suffered very great hard-
ships and privations, traveling across barren
deserts without water and many times with-
out food enough to barely sustain life; he

[Column 3]
arrived home on the 12th of Dec., 1847,
with barely clothing enough on to be com-
fortable in summer time; on his return home
he with others were obliged to eat worn out
mules’ flesh which they eagerly devoured;
they came to a deserted Indian village
where they found rotted ears of corn which
they se[-]zed with the eagerness of starving
men. They cut leather from their saddles
and boiled up, to keep body and soul to-
gether; when they arrived home they were
literally starved, and as my husband express-
ed himself had suffered much from cold,
hunger, thirst and fatigue. In the spring
of 1848, father Hyde and family started for
the valley of Salt Lake, the twelve apostles
and their families also journeyed at the
same time.
	On the 23rd of Dec. 1848, Mary Lucretia
was born at Council Bluffs, Iowa. March
30th, 1849, Angeline Frances died, age 3
years and 8 months, she was buried at
Council Point, Iowa, four miles from Kanes-
ville, under a lone tree, this affliction seem-
ed almost more then I could endure; she
was of a very loving and sweet disposition.
In the spring of 1849 my husband and
brother Rosel with their families started for
Salt Lake valley. The companies were di-
vided into one hundred, fifty and ten,
Samuel Gully was captain of a fifty and
died on the plains on the 4th of July with
the cholera, several others of the company
died with the same disease. My husband
came very near going the same way. I sat
up with him many nights in my wagon,
fearing every night to be his last; my hus-
band was appointed to take brother Gully’s
place as captain of fifty, Livingston and
Kincaid merchants in Brother Gully’s com-
pany rendered me every assistance in their
power in my husband’s sickness, furnishing
me with medicine and lights, they said they
had lost one captain and didn’t want to lose
another; they had him ride in their carriage
until he got stronger, Sister Betsy Aldred
was with me, we traveled with ox teams.
	We arrived in Salt Lake on the 22nd day
of Sept., 1849, after being on the road be-
tween four and five months, after we ar-
rived in Salt Lake (not much of a city then)
my husband rented a room of Philo Johns-
ton in the 17th ward and went into the store
of Livingston and Kincaid, he afterwards
built a small adobie house in the 14th ward;
on the first of September, 1850, Sally Ald-
red was sealed to my husband, and on the
16[-]h of Oct. a little daughter was born to
me, we called her Ellen Maria. We remain-
ed in the city a short time when my hus-
band sold out, and we moved to Cottonwood
about twelve miles from the city. Here we
moved into a small house with no fl[-]or, we
remained here a short time, then obtained
an adobe house with two rooms, where we
remained some time, and where Sally’s sec-
ond child was born on the 5[-]h of July, 1852.
(the first dying at birth) in the fall of 1851.
My husband was called to go on a mission
to Australia. There he accomplished a
good work, but owing to poor health re-
turned in Oct. 1854, bringing over sixty
saints whom he had brought into the
Church; his health continuing so poorly,
President Brigham Young advised him to
move back to Salt Lake as he was not able
to work on a farm; I wish to state that
while my husband was on this mission we
received great kindness from Bro. Albert
Miles’ family, Bro. Boyce’s family, also Dr.
Lee’s and Milo Andrus, and in fact all the
neighbors for which we felt very grateful;
after moving back to Salt Lake we moved


into a log house formerly occupied by David
Grant, we soon after built a five roomed
house joining father Hyde’s lot, we did not
remain there long before he sold out to
Jesse Haven, and we moved to Lehi this
was in the spring, before the move south,
we remained there three years, during
which time my eldest daughter Jane E.
was married, to Elder Simpson Molen; in
the spring of 1860, Mr. Hyde, Mr. Molen,
and Mr. Griffeth moved north into Cache
Co. and located on a spot that was called
Hyde Park then a barren place, save sage
brush, they camped near a spring, lived in
wagons and dugouts until they could build
houses and from this little beginning it has
grown to be a thrifty town Mr. Hyde
was chosen Bishop and presided there un-
til his death which sad event occurred on
the second day of March, 1874 at the age
of fifty-five years and 6 months; he had
taken unto himself five wives, all good wo-
men; was the father of twenty-five children.
	Soon after my husband’s death, I went to
live in the family of my son in-law Simp-
son Molen, where I have lived with my
daughter Jane ever since, I have ever been
treated with the utmost kindness, for
which may the rich blessings of the Lord
rest upon all that pertains unto him is the
prayer of my heart.
						E. H. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FRIENDLY CAROL FROM FAR AWAY.
Mrs. L. L. G. Richards,
	MY DEAR FRIEND:
Your “Branches” have reached me o’er mountain
		and dell,
The pleasure they give me my words cannot tell.
They bear to me fragrance from out the dim past,
Like the scent of sweet roses forever to last,
The first time I met you comes fresh to my mind,
Your smile was as sunshine, your greeting most
		kind,
In the little white house by dear City Creek’s
		stream—
It seems like remembrance of some pleasant
		dream.
I am feasting again on “my own mother’s bread,”
At our little square table with snowy cloth spread;
And oh! how I pity the girl or the boy,
Who has no such picture of “mother’s home joy.”
Many thanks, Lula dear, for remembrance kind;
In reading your book, such loved names I find,
That with old friends I live again past days and
		years,
Tiil my heart swells with fondness, my eyes dim
		with tears.
So many have passed to the "opposite side,”
And others are scattered so far and so wide!
But in Father’s own house with its grand spacious
		dome—
Oh, “the gathering in” at the great "Harvest
		Home!”
And, sister, if we are but faithful and true,
To the duties assigned us, we’ll enter there too;
And drink from the fountains so rich and so rife.
With “My Maggie,” and others, “The Waters of
		Life.”
Again dear old Christmas is venturing near,
Again is approaching the end of the year
May the holidays find our dear Utah friends
All well! is the greeting their sister “Hope” sends.
What more cheering words could my brief mess-
		age tell
Than to say, as I can in truth, “We are all well!”
One of God’s greatest blessings bestowed from
		above,
Is the gift of good, health.	Your sister in love.
						SARAH E. RUSSELL.	
Colonia Churichupa, Mexico Dec. 11, 1904.


FAREWELL TO FORTY-TWO ISLINGTON,
			LIVERPOOL.
	Oh, Forty-two! old Forty-two! 
		What mem’ries rise encircling you!
	Of Liverpool and days of yore.
		When first the Gospel reached that shore.
	Historic thou wilt ever be,
		By many loved far o’er the sea
	Oft missionaries came and went—
		With Gospel tidings they were sent.
	To all the world a change must come,
		The race of life some day be done.
	And then—home of the past art thou;
		No L. D. S, reside there now.
	Old crumbling walls, and creaking floor,
		Thy echoes we will hear no more.
	E’en Holly Road—pretentious, new.
		With trees and flowers bursts on the view.
	To lands afar these tidings sing,
		'Prepare. prepare for Christ the King;"
	In raiment fair shall Zion shine,
		O'[-]rspread by glorious love divine.
							LYDIA D. ALDER.


MOTHER’S WORK.
SNOWFLAKE STAKE.

	Lesson I. Are most punishments due to
mistaken methods, or neglect in the past?
	Lesson II. Is a punishment necessary?
and what is its object?
	Lesson III. What faults in the parents
often result in punishment for the child?
	Lesson IV. Which is the most import-
ant, the parlor or the room where the chil-
dren mainly live?
	Lesson V. How at the beginning of the
day may we become in harmony with every-
thing?
	Lesson VI. Have we a special duty to-
wards the naughty, and disagreeable child
and its mother in our neighborhood?
						Committee,
				AMANDA PETERSON,
				EMMA L. SMITH,
				ELSIE O. FLAKE.


LIBERTY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Liberty Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Second Ward meeting house
December 3, 1904. President Annie S.
Musser presiding, Sister Margaret Caine of
the General Board being present. Opened
by singing, “Come let us anew.”. Prayer
by Sister Elizabeth Paul. Continued by
singing, “Glorious things of thee are
spoken.” Roll was called, and minutes of
previous confere[-]ce were read and accepted.
President Musser made a few opening re-
marks, welcoming the sisters and asking
the blessings of the Lord on all present.
	Favorable reports were then listened to
from all the wards in the stake, after which
Sister Martha Morris favored us with a
hymn.
	Counselor Eardley spoke for a short time
on woman suffrage.
	Sister Margaret A. Caine spoke on the
importance of understanding, and following
closely the legal requirements of the asso-
ciation, and devising ways to accumulate
means in order to take care of our poor;
also said that we were instructed to pro-
vide against the calamities that were to
come upon us by storing wheat and filling
our granaries.
	Adjourned until 2 o'clock by singing and
prayer.


Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock with
Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Ida S. Du-
senberry from the General Society, Treas-
urer C. S. Williams and Sister Margaret A.
Caine of the General Board on the stand.
After the usual exercises, singing, prayer,
minutes, etc., Counselor Hodgson presented
the names of the General Board, also the
names of the Stake Board, all were unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister C. S. Williams felt that the Lord
wou[-]d bless us in our efforts to help and re-
lieve suffering humanity, and we would
also obtain much happiness in so doing.
	Dr. Margaret Roberts related many inci-
dents that had come under her observation,
and urged the teachers to seek after the
Spirit of the Lord to guide them in their
work, also to get the young mothers to at-
tend Relief Soc[-]ety meetings.
	Sister Ida Dusenberry felt that in mak-
ing the sacrifices required of Relief Society
workers, it builds up the character, makes
better women of us, and brings us nearer
our Heavenly Father; told the mothers never
to deceive their children or tell them false-
hoods.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde thought we should
teach our children reverence for our meet-
inghouses, and to love those in authority,
let us love one another and keep the com-
mandments of God, made other sugges-
tions.
	Sister Caine said the bond between moth-
er and children should be very strong, and
let us cultivate the spirit of love in our
homes.
	Sister Webb urged the sisters to be faith-
ful in keeping the commandments of God.
	By unanimous vote the officers’ meeting
was adjourned until the first Saturday in Feb-
ruary. Conference adjourned by singing
“Doxology.” Benediction by Sister Mary
Mair.
			LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


REPENTANCE DAY.
	The close of the religious year in Sax-
ony is commemorated by what is called
Repentance Day. This year it fell on Wed-
nesday, November 16th. On this day the
people repent of their sins, attend church,
where the minister preaches a sermon on
this subject, then they partake of the sacra-
ment.
	One service is held in the morning at 8
o’clock. The worshipers meet in the ves-
try room, but if there are too many for
that, they adjourn to the church. Here
they have singing, prayer, and the sermon.
At the close of the service, two ministers
stand before the people, one administering
the bread, the other the wine. The people
pass around, each one partaking, after the
usual prayer is said.
	In the evening the same program is
carried out, and then the religious year is
closed. It is a general holiday, and a fine
day. Every one is out, in the afternoon,
dressed in his best, walking with sweetheart
or family. Down by the river, on the hard,
white road that winds through the forest,
many are walking leisurely along, the
children playing by the way.
	In this part of Germany Luther’s doc-
trines still prevail, and the Reformed
church holds the balance of power.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1905


[Column 1]
		THE NEW YEAR, 1905.
It is cus[-]oma[-]y at the beg innin[]of a new
year to ma[-]e new resolves, [-]o cherish new
h pe of success to hold out to one’s frie[-]ds
greetings th[-]t have a salutary effect in
stimulating the purpo[-]es of life, that inspire
courage in those wh[-] are inclined to be less
hopeful in their outlook, a l these little
courtesies a[--] acts of kindness are helpful,
and one grows to expect these in erchanges
of neighborly and friendly sentiments, and
it is a sort of grace in life that has b come
so universal, that one looks for it and
would be unhappy, temporarily, if t were
not given. There is [-]o[-] too [-]uch love n
the world, there is not enough courtesy
among those who love each ot[-]er. To be
as gracious and polite in one’s own home
as in public places would add greatly to
home happiness, and give higher tone to
home atmosphere.
	Presents, even costly ones sometimes
give one unpleasant sensations, but kind
words and gentle manners are always
cha[]m ng [-]o the recipient If the Golden
Rule were written and hung in every home
where it could be read daily it might be a
sort of talisman
	In some of the ve[-]y old houses in Eng-
land, where the wooden [-]eams are exposed
there are still quaint inscription that strike
one on entering, and give the strange[-] who
glances upward a feeling of welcome w[-]th-
out words. In Croft House in Stratford on
Avon, on a heavy wooden beam directly in
front of t[-]e doorway are these words “Wel-
come All Ye Who Enter H[--]e.” This was
a fairly large room with a great open fire-
place, and suggests what was formerly
known in times gone by as the living
room.

	We have no[-] entered upon a new year
so to speak, and what it will bri[-]g to us as
a people, it would be hard to determine;
that great changes seem to be approaching
i[]the general acceptance; certainly we know
that perilous times have already come in
lands afar off if not nea[-] [-]ome; the terrible
war that is and has been raging is appall-
ing, to say the least. The record of fearful
crimes and of accidents by land and by sea
make one stand aghast with honor and
amazement.
	All that transpires however, is not
dreadful and though n[-]twithstanding cal-
amities [--]d wars there has been and still
will be, greater material progress than ever
before, the affairs of the world of mankind
are not at a stand still. Discoveries in

[Column 2]
sci nce, progress in art, advancement in e[-]-
ucation along all lines; and perhaps in the
matter of architecture in railroad an[]bridge
building the present generation has sur-
passed every other, although one should
except the pyramids and the ancient city of
Rome with its great amphitheatre.
	In civilization the greatest changes are
noticable and therefore the future outlook
is hopeful; to enumerate all the events that
show the status of a higher civilization
would be superflous, but one who has his
eyes open must see the great march of civil-
zation in the r[-]pid methods of travel, con-
necting all parts of h[-] world, so that one
ma almost s ep over as it were, from oue
country to another; and in the communica-
tion by telegraph and telephone, which
makes not only people but cou tri s famil[-]ar
with each other’s affairs. And these things
are now really a part of the daily lives of
mankind. Judging by th[-] great [-]dvance-
ment in the past one cannot tell what the
near futu[-]e may bring, but ab ve all [-]t is
devout[-]y to be wished it may bring peace
to the countries involved in war an[-] to our
homes in these mountain [-]ales, prosperity
and success, as well as an increase in all
that will t nd to the es abli hmen. of truth
and righteousness.


D. R. SOCIETY MEETINGS.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolut[-]on was held on
Wednesday, Nov. 16, 1904, at the residence
of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth, Regent Phebe
Young Beatie in th[-] chair. Considerable
business was transacted, after which a
charming paper was given by Mrs. Clarissa
S. Williams, “Incidents of the Occupation
of Philadelphia by the British.” Mrs.
Clarissa Y. Spencer read an old Thanks-
giving Proclamation, very quaint and or-
iginal.
	The elegant parlor and library were
handsomely decorated with yellow chrysan-
themums and trailing evergreens and the
society colors of blue and buff daintly dis-
played, also flags and banners and historic
pictures of heroes and heroines of the Revo-
lutionary times were in evidence.
	There were a number of guests, Mesdames
Rhoda Lyman, Charlotte F. Richards, Jos.
S Richards, Mary Gowans, Louise Rich-
ards Farnsworth, May H. Larson and Jos.
A. West. The two last mentioned are
granddaughters of the late Capt Hunt, of
the famous Mormon Battalion and of Elder
Addison Pratt, the first Mormon misssonary
to the Society Islands.
	Refreshments, delicious and dainty,
were gracefully served to members and
guests by Mrs. Farnsworth’s pretty
daughters.


The D. R. meeting on December 16, the
anniversary of the Boston Tea Party was
held at the home of Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Regent Phebe Y. Beatie presiding.
The parlors were artistically decorated with
the most charming variety of late autumn
flowers and leaves, and the cosy, home-
like appearance of the house was gratifyiug
to one’s sense of harmony. The greatest
care h d been taken in the preparation of
the paper, which was very evident in the,
reading of it, Mrs T. G. Webber, the writ-
er, gave it as none but one whose heart is
in the subject can read to an audience.
	The subject was one that is always
specially pleasing, “Paul Jones and the U.


S. Navy.” There were other pleasing
features of the meeting. The guests were
Mesdames Bathsheba W. Smith, Charlotte
F. Richards, and Nellie Druce Pugsley, one
of the sweetest singers in Utah, who favor-
ed the ladies with several favorite selections.
‘I have heard the mavis singing her love
song to the moon,” and others, this vocal
music was enjoyable and uplifting.
	The refreshments pass all description and
were declared by a majority of the company
to be the best that had been served by any
hostess of the society. The little daughter
of the hostess while assisting in serving
passed a dish of “tacks on tea,” creating no
little merriment, as well as reminding the
guests, who were thoroughly enjoying the
hot rolls and tempting luxuries, of the time
when the tax on tea became unbearable to
their foremothers more than one hundred
years before.


The January meeting, Monday l6, 1905,
was held in the Templeton at the society
headquarters, Regent Phebe Y. Beatie oc-
cupying the chair. The stars and stripes
were conspicuously displayed, and there
were a number of historic pictures. Mes-
dames Bathsheba W. Smith and Mary Gow-
ans were the only guests. After some busi-
ness had been attended to, Mrs. Carissa S.
Williams read the paper of the day, which
had been written by Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, (who could not be present) the topic
being Roger Williams, and many new points
in his character were bro[-]ght out and em-
phasized by the writer, giving to this great
and good man almost irresistible power in
dealing with the native Indian tribes. The
writer had dealt with the subject in a very
interesting and original manner, and the
ladies all felt that they had been instructed
as well as entertained.


EDITORAL NOTES:
	The anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Eliza R Snow was fittingly commemorated
by the Daughters of t[-]e Pioneers at their
regular meeting in January, at the residence
of Brother and Sister W B. Dougall. Re-
marks were made by the president, Alice
Merrill Horne, who gave her childish recol-
lections and interesting reminiscences were
given by President Bathsheba W. Smith, a
life-long companion, and by Sister Margar-
et P. Young, Phebe Y. Beatie, Edna E.
Smith and the writer.
	Susan B. Anthony’s birthday on the 15th
of February of this year will be a sort of
gala-day throughout the United States,
Societies and clubs have decided to celebrate;
and elaborate preparations are being made
to do honor to this champion of woman’s 
political equality and civil rights. Miss
Anthony eminently deserves the loyalty of
women for the stand she has taken and
maintained; she has had much adverse cri-
tism, but she has risen superior to it all, and
is today the centre of attraction in any com-
pany in America or Europe.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Conference of the General
Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, Wednesday, October 5,
1904, commencing at 10 o’clock a. m.,
President Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.


[Column 1]
Meeting opened with singing, “Come, let
us anew.” Prayer was offered by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards. Singing, “Now let
us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
	President B. W. Smith gave the sisters
an informal, sympathetic greeting, express-
ing her delight in seeing so many of the 
sisters present, and especially those from a
distance, knew how hard it was for them to
come so far, and hoped they would feel re-
paid; she loved the Relief Society and the
work the sisters were engaged in, there is
no better work in the Church, and we do
help the brethren, and the Lord blesses us
in our labors in what we have to do for the
sick and the afflicted; “may we increase in
love and have patience with each other, and
may we have strength to do all that is re-
quired of us.”
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde was so re-
joiced to see so many assembled and felt
she knew them all; it was like seeing mem-
bers of her own family; “these sisters are
so self-sacrificing and work so hard to do
what is necessary to promote the work of
the Society. The nurses work is doing
so much good;” and she hoped to see the
time when every young girl would have
this work included in her education for
motherhood, and she felt also that the moth-
er’s work in the society was helping all to
progress and improve; “this is a day of
progress and not a station where we stand
still.” She thought we should “mother”
the Mutual and Primary and we ahould
look after them and be one with them.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry felt
when she drew near to the audience she
seemed much better acquainted with the
sisters, and with those who come from a
distance, thought we should try to get
near to each other. She had been request-
ed to report some of her experiences while
away, and so forth, she had enjoyed visit-
ing the Relief Society and meeting the
Saints, had been in Chicago recently and
visited the Relief Society there, held a
meeting with the sisters before the regular
Sunday evening meeting; also in New York
in the meeting of the Relief Society, had an
excellent time there, she had never felt a
better spirit; said in Zurich, in Switzerland
there is an excellent young woman mis-
sionary, very faithful and energetic and also
in Berlin; there the sisters have a good Re-
lief Society the hall where they meet is
poor and not very large, but every seat was
filled and it was an interesting meeting, the
good spirit was manifest, and it was most
enjoyable. “I pray that we may have the
spirit of love and humility and be blest in
our labors that we may live near our Creat-
or and do what is right.”
	Stake reports were called for, beginning
with those far-off. President Mary L.
Woolf, of Cardston, gave an excellent,
though brief report of Alberta and Taylor
stakes; referred to the prosperity of the set-
tlements, in Canada and mentioned the new
wards farther north, Calvary, and Edmon-
ton, they had visited recently, all the or-
ganizations in Canada were in good condi-
tion.
	Counselor Mary A. Bagley reported Bear
Lake Stake, the society had recently built
two new houses and all was prosperous, re-
ferred to the aged president, Sister Julia P.
Lindsay, a veteran in the Church; over 80
years of age; she still visited the branches
in the Stake and attended to her duties in
the society.
	President C. C. Shepherd represented

[Column 2]
Beaver, was proud to mention they had a
granary in such ward and were doing good
work in other respects.
	Miss Emma Ramsey, one of the sweet
singers of Zion, favored the conference with
a solo, “Fear Not Ye For Israel,” Elder
Tracy Y. Cannon accompanying her upon
the organ. The music was greatly appre-
ciated by all present.
	St. Joseph Stake was represented by
Sister Sarah T. B. Folley, she felt the soci-
ety work was making great progress in that
far away locality.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, of St.
George, made an eloquent address upon
practical matters, and zealously exhorted
the sisters to diligence and faithfulness.
	Cassia Stake was represented by Counsel-
or to Sister Haight, who gave a good re-
port of actual conditions.
	Counselor Mary A. Rich reported Fre-
mont Stake, spoke specially of the amount
of grain on hand in good condition.
	Sister Emma Wright, recently home from
New Zealand, gave an exceedingly interest-
ing account of the Relief Society work in
that far off land, she felt this work had
been a great blessing to the native sisters.
	Sister Lexia Harris from the City of Mex-
ico outlined the Relief Society work in that
far-famed city and suburbs, which was most
entertaining and encouraging, when one
realizes how far-reaching aud uplifting this
benevolent work is among the sisters in
whatever part of the world it is commenced.
	President Julia A. Richards of Malad
Stake spoke well of her labors and the great
desire the sisters had to improve in good
works, referred particularly to the Lamanite
sisters and the improvement among them
and their advancement in the organization.
	Maria Makaula spoke in the Hawaiian
language of the society at Iosepa and Sister
Julina L. Smith interpreted what she had
reported to the conference. The native sis-
ters in the Hawaiian colony were striving
in the same kind of charitable work as the
other sisters who had been more accustomed
to assist the poor and the sick.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. by
singing Doxology, and benediction was
offered by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Afternoon session, President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding.
	Prof. C. J. Thomas and members of the
Temple choir were present and had charge
of the musical exercises.
	Conference opened with singing “Praise
to the man who communed with Jehovah,”
prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, sing-
ing, “How blest was the day when the
Prophet and Seer.”
	President B. W. Smith made a few open-
ing remarks, welcoming the large audience,
and expressing her pleasure that so many
were present, and announced the Treasurer
of the General Society, Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, who in a few well-chosen words
also expressed the great pleasure it gave her
to see such a numerous congregation of the
women of the Latter day Saints, after which
she read the annual report of the 17th of
March donations and the disbursements,
and then stated the amount on hand for the
Woman’s Building.
	Sister E. B. Wells moved that the report
as read be accepted, seconded by Sister
Julina L. Smith, and Sister Susan Grant
and carried unanimously.
	The Temple choir then rendered the
beautiful hymn, “O, Jesus, the Giver of all
we enjoy.”

[Column 3]
	Reports were then given from San Juan
Stake by President Mary N. Jones and from
Mexico Juarez Stake by Sister Elizabeth
Snow Ivins, both gave excellent accounts of
the work in the respective localities, that
were of great interest to those present.
	The choir sang Sister Emily H. Wood-
mansee’s hymn, “Daughters of Zi[-]n, the
Friends of the Poor.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne gave a brief
sketch of her trip abroad and of the Quin-
quennial of the International Council and
Congress in Berlin she felt it a great privil-
ege to be at home after traveling 14,000
miles by land and sea; she testified that
there were many honest people in the world
yet, and that we should get rid of the idea
that they hate us, she stated that before go-
ing away she had been blessed by all the
General offieers of the Relief Society and by
Apostles George A. Smith and Rudger
Clawson, she realized the promises made to
her. She went direct from here to Boston
and attended the annual meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution to which she
had been appointed a Delegate and Proxie
for the Regent of the Utah Society. She
had been nominated to speak at the Con-
gress in Berlin and was glad she arrived
early; when she first reached there she
called upon the President, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, and found her very pleas-
ant and was invited to the first entertain-
ment given by her, a breakfast, previous to
the opening of the Council, where she met
the most prominent women, and was subse-
quently invited by Mrs. Commandes to
take a ride in the Their Gardens; she was
invited to speak twice in the Congress, once
upon the Legislature, and she was one of
the few who could be heard in the large
hall; she only took the time given her;
those women are greatly interested in the
franchise, and anxious to learn of those who
enjoy these rights. The Baroness Von
Beswitch and Frau Maria Stritt had been
greatly interested that she had not only
voted, but been voted for; she also addressed
a large audience on Art, and among the
number present were artists, musicians and
poets, everywhere she was well received and
women were desirous of talking with her
and asking questions; she visited Paris and
the art galleries there, and many other cities
aud traveled almost continuously; in Zur-
ich she visited the Saints and missionaries
who were very much delighted to do all in
their power for her pleasure and on her re-
turn was invited by the Saints in New York
and attended meeting there; she had en-
joyed it all very much aud was glad to be
at home again.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, addressing the
conference said, she and Sister Dusenberry
sailed for Antwerp and on arriving went to
see the very quaint old Dutch town, saw
many grand old pictures, these fine old pic-
tures by the great Masters are everywhere
and especially those of the Savior are con-
spicuous, they were so wonderful and in all
the art galleries that one felt a sensation of 
solemnity, she enjoyed seeing and associat-
ing with the missionaries very much, had a
fine meeting in Zurich on the 4th of July;
it was a treat; Sister Dusenberry made the
boys a strawberry short cake that pleased
them very much. Sister Richards spoke of
the “Sacred Stairs,” crowds of people cling-
ing to them as they go up, and they be-
lieve if they do this their sins will be for-
given; Church of Maternity where chil-
dren are held up to kiss the toe of the vir-


gin, it is pitiful to see the women who are
so ignorant of the truth, she co[--]d not re-
peat all she saw; stated they had no serious
difficulty, were always treated with respect
and kindness.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Sisters Carrie S
Thomas, Maiy A. C. Lambert and Pris-
cilla Smith each spoke a few minutes on the
benefits of the Relief Society, and the bless-
ing attending those who labored therein.
	President Ann Walker reported Black-
foot Stake, the good work being done and
the interest taken in storing grain.
	President Alvira E. Steele, Bingham
Stake, she bad gone up there nineteen years
ago, when the country was new, reported it
was a good grain country, she scarcely
knew what could have been done if they
had not had the Relief Sceiety.
	President Celestia Y. Pack, Summit
Stake gave a definite report of the wards in
that locality, and the work done by the so-
ciety, the sisters there had been studying
the Women ot the Bible and it had been
quite satisfactory.
	Secretary E. B Wells made announce-
ments of meetings to be held, officers’
meetings, Peace meeting, Woman’s Council,
Primary, etc.
	Choir sang “Only a beam of sunshine,”
conference adjourned for six months, clos-
ing prayer by Sister Mary T Smith.
		E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
Continued from January <December> Number.
	In a few days loneliness and gloom set-
tled down upon the Windeyer home, A
little mound in the churchyard was all that
remained to the parents of the frail child so
beloved, There was no word from Ed-
ward, and none from his young wife and
babe. Aunt Matilda stayed on to relieve
Mrs. Windeyer of household cares and
comfort her in her great affliction. Christ-
mas was drawing nigh, and she realized
how hard it would be for them all, remem-
bering that joyful Christmas a quarter of a 
century ago when Edward was born.
	Mr. Windeyer plunged deep into business
affairs, trying to drown his sorrow, but alas!
that was impossible.
	Years went by, and but few changes
came. Margaret lived on alone with the
little Ruth, who grew up a beautiful girl.
Some letters had come from Edward, tell-
ing of adventures and extended voyages;
but as he sailed from place to place, stop-
ping only at seaport towns, the tender
epistles of his faithful and devoted wife
never reached him He began to despair,
and at last concluded to write to his mother
for news of his wife and child. The mes-
sage never reached his wife, so unforgiving
was this proud, haughty woman Long
years afterwards, when little Ruth was
grown to womanhood and Margaret had by
her writing made for herself an honored
name, though a fictitious one, Fanny Hil-
lier, ever faithful to the family, learned
that Edward was dead, and she determined
to unravel the secret and see that justice
was done to the wife and child. Through
old Dr. Gray she heard that family trouble
had wrought so upon the Square that he
had not been himself for some time previ-
ous to his demise
	Fanny succeeded in winning the confid-
ence of Miss Gordon (Aunt Matilda), now
about in her dotage, and learned the par-
ticulars, and felt in duty bound to carry

[Column 2]
the sad news to Margaret and Ruth, un-
pleasant as she knew it would be. Yet
sorrow had chastened the younger Mrs
Windeyer, so that Fanny real[-]zed she would
bear up bravely under this crushing blow.
She had longed, and hoped, and waited
through all the years that had come and
gone for the lover whose fidelity she had
trusted always. Her grandmother had
been laid away in the grave, and her home
was a lonely one; but she possessed a cour-
age that had strenthened with her years,
and for Ruth’s sake she must be cheerful.
	It was Christmas eve again in Merton,
and the usual festivities were in progress.
Fanny’s sister, Carrie, came home with half
a dozen children to see the folks, and there
was sure to be a happy party, for Mrs. Hil-
lier and her husband were still hale and
hearty; and Janet Cousins, now a widow,
was invited to join them at Christmas din-
ner; and Lizzie her daughter, once lady’s
maid to Mrs. Windeyer, was invited too,
with her crowd of little ones and husband
(she had married well), while Fanny Hil-
lier, still single, was the good genius and
more than a mother to them all. It was
Fanny to whom they came to unburden
their griefs and cares, and she had a kind
word and comfort, a “balm of Gilead,’’
for all her friends. Fanny felt now was
her opportunity to leave home and go to
the dear lonely Margaret and tell her the
sad story—duty was always before pleasure
with this grand woman. Her mother pro-
tested, and declared she had giver her life
a sacrifice to the love that was flung back
upon her so long ago. Fanny heeded not
the sarcasm, but started forthwith in a
night coach for Easton, arriving on the
Christmas eve.
	As soon as the affectionate greetings were
over, Margaret said, “My Ruth has had
strange forebodings and peculiar dreams.
I hope your coming is in fulfillment. I feel
myself that something must be pending,
and I dread any great change. My grand-
ma’s death, though sad for us, has left me
independent, and I am going to take a long
rest—perhaps go out to India. I fancy
some way that Edward is there. Why do
you sigh—surely no news of him, or you
would have written?'’ Fanny knew not
how to tell the story she had come to un-
fold. Margaret saw it instinctively in the
expression of her countenance, and quickly
said, “Is the news you bring good or ill?
I can bear almost anything now, but for
Ruth, she is so happy.’’
	Trembling with suppressed excitement,
Fanny answered, “I have a very import-
ant message. Ruth’s grandfather is dead,
and she is the only heir to Squire Winde-
yer’s wealth—he died without a will.’’
	Margaret could not speak at first, but
soon collected her thoughts..
	“The only heir, you say then what of
Edward?’’ she groaned aloud; “he cannot
be dead!’’
	"Yes, Margaret, he is dead, in far away
Bombay. On Christmas eve, a year ago,
they buried him. So young to die and
you still hoping on, and teaching Ruth to
love him!’’
	O Fanny, I will not believe it until I
have the pr[-]of! My baby’s father dead,
and we not know it—so strong, and. we so
frail. And I have waited for his coming
through all these long, dreary years! How
shall I tell Ruth? Tell me, Fanny, what
shall I do?’’
	“A sad Christmas, indeed, for you and
darling Ruth; but life itself is sad, and full

[Column 3]
of mysteries we cannot comprehend; but
there are true hearts and noble souls, and
you, dear Margaret, have proved one among
a thousand.’’
	“Stay with me, Fanny, with me and
Ruth; we need you most. You loved his
father—I know it all now. It has come to
me little by little, as I have watched you
and thought of your unselfish devotion.’’
	Just then Ruth burst into the room, her
golden curls and fair brow, so like her father.
“Oh, how lovely! Aunt Fanny here. I
dreamed of her last night, that she brought
us precious jewels, so dazzling and brilliant
that our eyes were blinded with tears, and
when we opened them again, the casket of
jewels held only pale ashes.”
	“It is true, my darling—your dream is
tiue. Ashes to ashes! Our jewels of love
and memory have turned to ashes, and
Fanny brings us today, instead of ‘Peace on
Earth,’ peace to his ashes far away—your
father sleeps in fair Bombay.”
	Ere another year bad rolled around, the
Windeyer estate was settled, and Fanny,
Margaret and Ruth sailed for India, and
on the next Christmas day they knelt to-
gether at Edward's grave, strew[-]ng it with
flowers.
	“One day I searched an ancient cabinet
		And foun[-] a musty book—I have it yet
	A journal of the good year twenty-nine.
		Kept by a long-departed friend of mine:
	And from its leaves, grown brown with age,
		I take a story and a single page.
 
			“Wait! Wait! Love, I come,
				Bless this dear day
			That brings from far away Bombay—
				These words to thee I say,
			Wait, love, I come. ,
			In flowery, far away Bombay,
			Died in December, twentieth day.”
									E. B. W.


OBITUARY.
	It is painful to record the death of a dear friend
at all times, but when one has lived out the full
time we cannot mourn as we would if the life
were in its morning or noon day season. Sister
Amanda Ellen Hollinghead Smith was born July
27th, 1838, was the daughter of Isaac and Mercy
Wilcox Hollinghead, but at the age of two weeks
was given to Sister Dicy Perkins who was the only
mother she ever knew, her own mother having
died at her birth. On July 29, 1857, she was mar-
ried to William L. Smith of Farmington, Utah.
In 1846 they were called as pioneers to settle in
the Muddy. Some years later they again returned
to Farmington, after this they moved to Idaho.
On July 1st, 1890, her husband was taken by death
which was a severe trial to her. She came with
her children to Canada in 1893 enduring many
hardships and trials, but still trusting in her
heavenly Father and remaining steadfast to the
principles she had embraced, she has been a mem-
ber of this ward (Magrath) for two years. On Aug.
1st, 1903, she met with a fatal accident in dislo-
cating her hip which caused her death in the Galt
Hospital at Lethbridge, Canada—Sept. 21st, 1903.
In her earlier days she was an active worker as
teacher in the Relief Society. She was of great
faith even to her last moments, and passed peace-
fully away. She is the mother of eight children,
five sons and one daughter survive her. She has
a number of grand-children, and several great-
grand-children. Her oldest son Jesse is now on a
mission to the Eastern States. She was a kind
mother, a true Latter-day Saint, and a good friend
always. The funeral was held in the meeting
house at 2 p. m. Friday, Sept. 25th, 1903.
	Resolved, that we the members of the Magrath
Relief Society extend our heart felt sympathy to
the family in this their hour of sorrow. That we
ever cherish her memory and regard her virtues
as worthy of emulation. That a copy of this be
presented to the bereaved family, one be placed on
the record of the Relief Society and one be sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
		O Lord! responsive to thy call.
		In life or death whate’er befall.
		Our hopes for bliss on thee depend,
		Thou art our everlasting friend.
				MARY P. W. FLETCHER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.

ABBIE CRAM HAVEN.
	Sister Haven, who recently passed to the other
side,” was born July 14, 1825, in Stoddard, New
Hampshire, and of New England Puritan parent-
age. She embraced the Gospel and was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints about 1844, and came west to Salt Lake
City in 1860, arriving about the middle of October,
and married Elder Haven soon after. They lived
in Salt Lake City a number of years, then moved
to Morgan county, being one of the first families
to settle there in a place that is now known as
Peterson.
	Sister Haven was always a member of the Re-
lief Society of Peterson, from its first organization
in that ward, and was treasurer for many years,
faithful and true to her duties in that important
office; indeed, she was a thorough Latter-day
Saint in her every-day life—her religion always
first; a woman of strong character, sterling integ-
rity and devotion to principle.
	Sister Haven had one son, Jesse, named for
his father. This young man died some years ago.
leaving two children, a son and daughter—their
grandchildren, and at the time of her demise there
were five great-grandchildren; to all these dear
ones she was fondly attached, and they were very
dear to her. Sister Haven, also raised two moth-
erless children (a girl and a boy) to manhood and
womanhood. They have greatly appreciated her
kindness, and have been kind to her in return.
	Sister Haven departed this life Sunday, Decem-
ber 11 1904, the cause of her decease was pnuemo-
nia. She leaves an aged husband, who deeply
mourns his great loss he has been blind for sev-
eral years, and she has been his constant solace
and attendant. In March next he will be ninety
years of age.
	The remains of Sister Haven were brought to
this city and she was buried in the Salt Lake City
cemetery, She was a noble woman, industrious
and a fine housewife and homemaker; beloved by
all who knew her for her sterling qualities of head
and heart. Our Father in heaven bless the aged
husband and all their posterity and increase them
in the land.
	Sister Haven has one sister living in this city.
now over eighty years of age widely known and
well beloved, Relief C. Atwood; wife of the late
Bishop Millen Atwood, of tke Thirteenth ward.
May her heart be comforted in the loss of her
only sister, and may the Holy Spirit comfort those
bereft, and may they feel in their hearts,
		“She is not dead, but sleepeth.”
								COM.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of Sister Elizebeth Risie who de-
parted from this life July 12, 1904, at her home in
Magrath, Canada. She gave birth to twin boys
on the 10th inst., and her family and friends
hoped she would recover but she gradually grew
weaker, and passed away two days later, leaving
a husband and twelve children, the youngest one
the surviving twin two days old; and a host of
friends who mourn her untimely departure. She
maintained the record for good works that she had
made before coming to this land. She was one of
the presiding teachers in tbe Relief Society of this
ward, which position she held at the time of her
death. She was faithful in the discharge of her
duties and her sympathy was always with the sick,
poor and needy, her house was always ready and
open to any and all friends. She was a true Lat-
ter-day Saint in word and deed. She was born
Sept. 14th, 1862; much could be said of a high-
minded character like her. We all learned to love
her and feel the loss of our dear Sister; those who
knew her best loved her most.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called her to
a higher sphere therefore be it,
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved husband and children and cherish her
memory and strive to emulate her noble character.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family, also to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
for publication, and be placed upon the records of
the Magrath Ward Relief Society.
		Gone from the home of earth,
		Followed by deepest love,
		To taste of the higher birth—
		To dwell in the courts above.
						MARY P W. FLETCHER,
						ELEANOR KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

			BOX ELDER.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Box
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle,
Brigham City, Dec. 13, 1904. On the stand
were the stake officers and Stake President
Charles Kelly. President Susannah P.
Booth, presiding.
	Singing, “We thank thee, O God for a
Prophet.”
	Opening prayer by President Charles
Kelly.
	Singing, “Now let us rejoice in the day
of salvation.”
	President Booth was pleased to meet
again with the sisters in conference. Felt
the Lord would bless us. Prest. Annie C.
Jensen of Mantua society reported. Prest.
Hannah Harper reported North Ward.
Prest. Annie C. Johnson of First Ward,
Brigham City. Sister Grover reported the
Garland society. Prest. Sarah Fridal re-
ported Bear River City. Sister Thompson
reported the Elwood society. Emma Lee,
president of the Third Ward, Brigham City,
reported.
	The hymn, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion,” was sung by the congregation.
	Mary E. Ward, president of Willard, re-
ported. Sister Lizzie Wright reported the
Fourth Ward. All the reports were favor-
able and denoted a spirit of love and har-
mony.
	Sister Emma Pratt reported the Scandi-
navian society. They go around and visit
the elderly and sick people and encourage
them by singing the hymns and leaving
them a little money to help them; knew the
Lord helped and blessed them in their work,
and they appreciated His blessings to them.
	Prest. Booth made a few remarks and the
meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Singing, “Guide us, O thou great Je-
hovah.” Benediction by Counselor Emilia
D. Madsen.

	2 p. m.—On the stand were Stake Presi-
dent Kelly and his Counselor L. Snow. Bish-
op Grover and Bishop Larsen of Garland and
East Garland, and Stake Relief Society
officers. Prest. Booth presiding.
	Singing, “The sun that declines,” etc.
	Opening prayer by Counselor Lucius
Snow.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sinc[-]re de-
sire” Roll call and minutes read, etc.
	The officers of the General Board, also
stake officers were unanimously sustained.
	Prest. Booth felt pleased to meet with
the sisters, felt to mention the absence of
Counselor Peters, who was detained at
home on account of sickness. She and her
counselors had visited every society in the
Box Elder Stake, and were going to organ-
ize the East Garland Relief Society on the
following Saturday. She took great pleas-
ure in visiting the sisters, felt we were en-
gaged in a grand and glorious work. Spoke
upon the storing of grain, and the great
responsibility President Young had placed
upon the sisters, thanked the sisters for the
interest they were taking in storing grain.
Represented Park Valley society; spoke of
sickness and death in some of the settle-
ments; was p[-]eased to have the brethren
visit with them; felt they were interested
with us. Asked the blessing of the Lord
upon the people.
	Sister Rohwer represented the Second
Ward, Brigham City. Sister Young re-
ported the Perry society. They had had

[Column 2]
considerable sickness and several deaths in
their ward.
	Counselor Emelia D. Madsen talked most-
ly to the teachers; spoke of the duties of
the teachers, thought as a rule, they did not
take time enough to visit with the people;
thought if more time was spent in visiting,
they could better find out the true condition
of things; encouraged them to look well
after the sick, and the wants of the poor,
said we should use every effort to try and
get the sisters into our society; said we
should be big-hearted and not narrow-
minded. Let us be true m thers to those
in need.
	Bishop Grover of Garland had been deep-
ly interested in the reports and instructions
given, thought how beautiful the organiza-
tion of this Church was; spoke of the good
the Relief Society was doing, related an
ncident which happened in their ward,
where the Relief Society was appreciated;
said if they would ask the assistance of the
Lord, they would have joy in their labors.
	Bishop Larsen of East Garland had been
edified in listening to the reports and in-
structions given; felt the Spirit of the Lord
was with us, had been interested in the talk
in relation to the teachers and their calling,
said the sisters who were filled with the
Spirit of the Lord always carried a good
influence with them; felt to ask the Lord
to bless the sisters in their patience and
good works.
	Prest. Kelly was pleased to be able to at-
tend this conference; wondered why there
were not more present; felt an extra effort
should be put forth to attend conferences as
they were business meetings; had been
very much interested in the reports given
today, said the Relief Society was a very
important organization, the Lord had sanc-
tified the labors of the sisters in the great
amount of good they were doing, he appre-
preciated the labors of the Relief Society
in this stake and asked God to bless them.
	Prest. L. Snow felt very much impressed
in this meeting, thought that there were
unseen beings here if our eyes could only
be open to see them. Spoke on the storing
of grain, and referred to prophecies given
by President Young, felt the sisters were a
great help, and asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Prest. Booth made closing remarks and
said a few words on the Mother’s Work.
	Singing Doxology. Benediction by Bishop
Grover.
		Cor. Sec’y. Lettie G. Fosgreen.


THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS.
	(A plea for it in the home.)
EDITH IVINS LAMOREAUX.
	While so much is being said and written
in favor o[-] the Doctrine and Covenants as
an aid in the study of the Gospel among our
young people, both in Sunday Schools and
Mutual improvement Associations, as well
as in the different quorums of the Priest-
hood, I wish to make a plea for it in the
home—in the hands of the mother.
	To some mothers this may seem a difficult
task and of little use, as many of us have
felt heretofore that the book is beyond our
comprehension and never intended for our
use. But an interested attempt at study of
its contents has made it appear in a far dif-
ferent light to me. The inspiration to take
up this line of work is due largely to the
influence of the splendid talks I have heard
given in its favor by those who have made


[Column 1]
an exhaustive study of it, and to the lec-
tures given in the Young Woman's Journal
as used in the Y. L. M. I. A. throughout
the Church.
	If I should borrow their ideas too much,
my only excuse is that they are a little bet-
ter than any I have yet heard or read, and
still the mothers whom I wish to reach do
not often come in contact with those who
are now pushing forward this grand move-
ment, nor the work itself as taken up in
the different organizations
AS TO THE BOOK ITSELF AND ITS MISSION.
	Its fly leaf tells us it contains the revela-
tions given to Joseph Smith for the building
up of the kingdom of God in the last days.
Surely if you and I as mothers in Israel ex-
pect to help build up the kingdom we need
these instructions—revelations—as much
as any one.
	The idea that the book is only for the
wise heads and those holding the Priest-
hood, being too strong food for women or
the young, is an old prejudicial one, which
is fast being removed by our young people
themselves.
	“Its mission is to reveal the mind and will
of our Father in answer to questions which
arose from time to time in the Church, and
to explain other doctrines as the Lord saw
that they were needful for the Church.” Its
teachings too are fitted for our daily lives
now if we will but seek to find them.
	On one occasion I heard an enthusiast on
this work say, “It is especially adapted for
women, because the nature of woman is
such as to enable her to fathom the truths
contained therein.”
	But, says the mother, how shall I go to
work to study it, to find what there is in it
for me?
	The very fact that parents use it so little
in the home proves that they have not yet
realized the value in enabling them to train
up their children before God. Various sug-
gestions as to the study of it are given in
the Outlines for both Sunday School and
Mutual Improvement work, as well as a
splendid article on the subject in the Nov.
number of the Improvement Era by Dr.
John Widtsoe.
	The mother, if deeply interested as to
how to become really acquainted with the
book will find all she needs here, choosing
for herself that which seems most suitable.
As far myself, not always having with me
the references which classify the subjects in
topical form, and not finding it interesting
to read the book page by page, I have found
great joy in studying it in connection with
the life ot the Prophet Joseph Smith as writ-
ten by himself in the old bound volumes of
the Millennial Star, beginning with Vol.
xiv. It is also found in the new Church
History.
	In reading this way I have found the
reason why, and the circumstances under
which each revelation was given. We find
too that the Lord did not tell Joseph all
concerning one principle at once, but gave
knowledge as we as a people were able to
receive it

[Column 2]
	While many of the revelations seem to be
given expressly for the edification or chas-
tisement of individuals, they nearly all con-
tain advice equally applicable to us in our
day if we but read with the spirit.
	For those who hunger for light on the
glorious principles of the Gospel and desire
an increase of faith in God, no better treat-
ise is given than in this holy book. Truly
in these days we need to understand the
signs of the second coming of our Lord and
the preparation necessary for us to meet
and dwell with Him, all of which is more
fully given here than anywhere, and so
simple as to be easily explained to our chil-
dren, who really hunger after these things.
	What child among us would not prefer to
give an intelligent reason (having learned it
from mother) why they are baptized into
the Church, and on the exact age of eight
years—that our Father revealed it to the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Hyrum, Ohio, in
1831, one year after the Church was or-
ganized (Read sec. 68). And to parents he
says at that lime if they do not do their
duty iu this regard the sin will rest upon
their heads.
	Since our reverence for holy things in-
creases as our interest is awakened in them,
so, too, will the child as it older grows have
increased reverence for the sacrament if
taught by mother of its institution by Christ
and again revealed to Joseph Smith in our
day, and the reason given why we use
water now instead of wine, as in the Sav-
ior’s time. In the Millennial Star, Vol. XIV,
page 37, Joseph tells us that while on his
way once to procure some wine that him-
self and some others might partake of the
sacrament, he was met by a heavenly mes-
senger who told him not to use wine unless
it was made by or among themselves. (Sec-
tion 27, first four verses only were given at
that time) He accordingly went back and
they made their own wine, partook of the
sacrament, after which the evening was
spent in a most glorious manner praising
God. I mention these as illustrative of
much that Is interesting matter for our chil-
dren.
	Section 121 given while the Prophet was
in Liberty jail is full of instructions to par-
ents. For instance verse 43 says, ‘‘reprov-
ing betimes with sharpness when moved
upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing
forth afterwards an increase of love towards
him whom thou hast reproved, lest he es-
teem thee to be his enemy.”
	What a beautiful principle for our guid-
ance, yet how often it is violated in the
home and among us as Church members.
	We all need reproof—children, in the
cause of Christ, but many a child has drifted
from the home, from mother’s loving care,
and many have gone from the Church be-
cause parents and those with authority to
chastise, did not observe the latter part of
the advice contained in this verse.
	In reading a sketch of the life of the “boy
Apostle” Hyrum M. Smith (in Cowley’s
Prophets and Patriarchs) we find: “He
was safely tucked away in bed long after he
reached the age of hundreds of the boys—
and girls too—that we now see playing in

[Column 3]
the streets late at night.” And I ask my-
self why it is that this mother did her duty
in this regard, while many other mothers
seem to utterly disregard it? I take it that
she knew from reading that it was a positi v
command of God that we retire and arise
early, that our bodies and minds be invig-
orated. (Sec 88, verse 124). Oh, what a
vast amount of sin and sorrow is brought
into the world under cover of night, when
our sons and daughters should at least be
at home with us, and in bed at decent
hours. Yet I am quite sure that many of
our young qeople who habitually keep late
hours to the detriment of their health and
morals, would not have contracted such a
habit if taught from early childhood that it
is in violation of a command of God, just as
much as the drinking of strong drinks. And
even now most of our dear girls are con-
scientious enough to appreciate the necessity
of a reform, and their influence is great in
other good or bad practices among the
young, if they were lovingly shown this
passage and impressed with its importance
by a wise parent.
	So too, the suggestion in Section 42,
verse 40 in regard to the making and wear-
ing of our apparel be pondered over by us
as mothers and taught to our daughters
with profit. Thus I might go on, but space
will not permit.
	Let me say in closing that we who now
have equal rights with our husbands should
not be afraid to stand along side by side
with them in the study of this important
work. Let us read it with a prayerful heart
and God will increase our interest in it and
our power to understand and live up to the
glorious principles contained therein.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you a
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
		RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
cluded in stakes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare complete annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of February, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No 1 Main Street.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

