PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT
I do not believe that there is another organization in the world with as few members as we have in the Mormon Church that can begin to furnish a body of workers in a conference that will compare with this gathering. I am very proud indeed of the wonderful labor that has been accomplished by our Relief Societies throughout the Church. As a little child I attended a great many Relief Society meetings, because in my childhood days my mother was the president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, a position she occupied for some thirty-odd years. Being her only child, and she having no one to leave me with, I attended Relief Society meeting when I was not old enough to understand what was going on. I have often remarked in a rather jocular way that I felt I was entitled to be counted as a charter member of the Relief Societies in Salt Lake City, as I believe I had attended in my childhood and young youth as many meetings as the regular members. After I was made one of the apostles, I learned of a very remarkable Relief Society meeting which I


converted and made a contribution, Then a temple was built and the man was converted to paying a donation for this purpose. Then an academy was built, and he complained again about contributing, but was finally converted. As time went on his boy graduated with honor, and the bishop came to him and told the man how he had been prospered and blessed since he had been here, and told him they wanted his boy to go on a mission, which would cost him $25 or $30 a month. The man said, "That settles it; I paid fast donations, tithing, donations for meetinghouses, temples, academies, etc., but I am not going to pay to send the boy on a mission. If the Church wants him they can simply pay his expenses. I expected that boy to make me $75 or $100 a month, to help refund some of the money I have spent to educate him. I am willing to give his services, but I won't give a dollar to send him on a mission. The Church can take it out of the tithing or he can stay home." The bishop explained that the Church would bring the boy home after his mission was completed, but that was the extent of the assistance the Church could give. The man said, then the boy must stay home. The bishop dropped the subject and commenced talking on other things, and the conversation went back to Scandinavia, and reference was made to the time the man left that country and came here. Finally, when the bishop got the man's mind entirely away from the boy's mission and everything of that nature, he said, "By the way, brother, whom do you love more than anybody else in all the wide world, except only your own family?" The man said, "Why, bishop, I love the man that came to me in the land of the midnight sun, and brought to me the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation. Why, I love that man beyond my power to express it." Then, said the bishop, "Would you not like somebody to love your boy just like you love that man?" The man said, "Bishop, you have licked me fair and square; the boy can go on a mission."
The Lord doesn't need your fast donations, and the tithing, but you need these things; you need to do them; I need to do them. The Lord knows what kind of material we are made of, and the necessity of our overcoming the weaknesses of the flesh. It is just as natural as it is to breathe to get on our tip-toes and get all we can and pull it in and hold it tight. It takes the gospel to reverse the situation, and to open our hearts and minds and to teach us to give and learn the lesson that it is more blessed to give than to receive. It requires the gospel to teach us the lesson that has been given here today by Sister Knight, the lesson of charity. I learned it but I learned it rather severely. A man was excommunicated from the Church by the apostles; later he repented
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 313
and asked to be baptized into the Church again. President John Taylor wrote a letter to the quorum of the Twelve, saying that this man could not be received into the Church again unless every man in the quorum gave permission. If one man objected, the man could not be baptized and the president asked every man to vote the conviction of his heart, and not to vote because the others did, for the baptism. The case was considered and it was put to a vote, and there were five for baptism and seven against. Some months later the question came up again, and there were seven for baptism and five against. Later, there were three against baptism and nine in favor of it. A year or more rolled along, and finally there were two against and ten for baptism; finally eleven were for baptism and one against, and I was that one. Brother Taylor said to me, "How will you feel when you meet that man in the Great Beyond and he says, 'I repented and you were not willing for me to be baptized?'" I said, "I will feel fine. I will look him in the eye and say that a man who brought disgrace upon the Church as he did, should not come back into the Church; he could die out of the Church." President Taylor said, "If that is the conviction of your heart, stay with it." I said, "I am going to stay with it. Your letter said that I should vote the conviction of my heart and I am voting it. If you want me to vote with the other eleven, I will do it. But he said, "Stay with your conviction." After going home that day I was reading in the Doctrine and Covenants, and opened the book to a passage quoted here today, "I the Lord will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men." I shut the book and said, "If the devil comes around and asks for baptism, he will get it as far as I am concerned." After lunch I called at the president's office and said, "That brother can be baptized; I have had a change of heart." Brother Taylor laughed and remarked that it was a very sudden change, and asked what had changed me. I told him. He said, "My boy, I wrote that letter for your benefit and for the benefit of my son. I realized that youth stands out for justice as against mercy, generally. You asked me to tell you to unite with the others and you would do it. Now, I want to ask you two questions: How did you feel when you left the office two hours ago, that you would like to hit that man between the eyes for the disgrace he had brought to the Church?" "Yes, that is the way I did feel," I answered. "How do you feel now?" asked the president. I said, "I hope and pray that the old sinner can be forgiven." He answered, "You feel happy now, in comparison to the feeling you had two hours ago. Now you have been converted. If I had told you to vote you would never have had that impression of that conversion in your own heart. Don't forget that mercy and for-


giveness are just as much a part of the gospel as justice is." He told me never to forget that lesson and I never have. I thought I was standing out for the right, but sometimes it is better to surrender even the right, in mercy, than it is to stand out and demand the pound of flesh.
May the Lord bless the officers of this organization, one and all, from the General Board down to the least of these officers. May peace be upon them. May the sweet spirit of the Lord abide in the homes of all the Latter-day Saint sisters.
COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON
We have had a wonderful conference, and I feel that everyone of us must be grateful to our Father in heaven for his Spirit that has been with us. It depends upon how much of this Spirit we carry into our homes, how well our lessons have been taught here. It is a beautiful thing for us to uphold the principles of the gospel. It is a beautiful thing for us to feel that we are not bringing disgrace upon the Church. About six weeks or two months ago, I had the privilege of attending a gathering of women where Sister Grant spoke and she was telling about her experience of having the privilege of meeting President Harding when he was here last summer, and she said, "I was very happy that I could meet President Harding and his party, because I felt that I represented the women of this Church. I am a representative woman." If each one of us could have the feeling in our hearts, that each could be a representative woman of this Church and state, what a wonderful record we would strive to make. I think most of us have read how much the state and cities and the people of Utah are doing in a public way to place the people of Utah and the state of Utah in good repute before the world; a great deal of money is being spent for this purpose, but I feel that much depends upon us in our homes here, if we are to be representative women of the Church and state, The success of this campaign for good Utah before the people depends in a measure upon how we represent our Church and State. In traveling up and down this country as a representative of the Relief Society, I have found many of the richest, sweetest spirits that ever lived, and I have been proud to feel that they were representative women of the Church. But on the other hand we have found people who have brought disgrace, in their small way, upon the Church. When tourists are passing through our communities, I wonder if we always try to make them feel that we are Christian people, or do we make them feel that we have
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 315
the love of money in our hearts so much that we will try to take advantage of every little opportunity. Two years ago I was at Duchesne at a convention and the sister who entertained me in her home lived close to the meeting house. Right by the side of the meetinghouse was a nice, grassy square, and campers were there. On the Saturday night of our convention, just as we were having our evening meal, a woman came to the door to ask if she could buy a loaf of bread. My hostess said, "I have not baked yet, but I have bread in the oven. How many are there in your party?" The woman answered that there were her husband and herself. My hostess handed her a plate of hot biscuits, saying, "We have enough biscuits for you and you are welcome to them." The woman offered to pay but this was refused by the lady of the house. The woman came back that night and said, "I have traveled across the continent, and I want you to know that I have not had such treatment before. This is my first stop in Utah." That was a very small thing but it was genuine hospitality and it made an impression on this traveler. The woman came in the next morning, and visited with us, and wished that she could come to our conference. I explained to her about the Relief Society and its work, She was greatly interested in our activities. Everyone we meet is interested in people who are in the services of the people. Then I mentioned the missionaries and she said, "I hope to meet your missionaries sometime in the field."
Sister Knight said while she and Sisters Lyman and Fox were in Washington last summer that they were being entertained and driven out to some points of interest, and when the hostess learned that they were from Utah, she said, "Come and ride in my car; I was entertained so royally when I was in Utah that I feel honored now to entertain Utah women." This is what is meant by being representative women of Utah, because we have always had the name of being hospitable. But there are other things that we meet when we are traveling. When you go to a home in the country and ask for milk or bread, and you are told that milk is 15¢ a quart (5c more than is charged in Salt Lake, although the streets are full of cows) and that bread is 20c a loaf, you wonder what is the matter and you carry away a bad impression of that community. I remember one time I was traveling through Afton, Wyoming, and I took a milk bottle into a house and had it filled. I offered the woman a dime and she said that it wasn't worth 10c to anybody. I always feel friendly toward Afton, Wyoming. Some of my people were held up there once on account of a mud slide, and they think it is a miserable place, but nobody can make me think that.
If we can be hospitable in our homes and


in our communities, and live up to the standards and ideals of the Church and the state, we can truly be called representative women. May we realize what a blessed privilege it is to be representative women in Zion, and may we bring honor to our Church and state, and honor to ourselves.
BISHOP JOHN WELLS
I am here representing Bishop Charles W. Nibley, the presiding bishop of the Church. He had another important engagement and asked me to substitute for him. I feel I am a poor substitute for that gifted man, but nevertheless, as a member of the Bishopric, I am glad to be here this afternoon to address this great body of women so closely connected with all of the bishoprics of the Church. I have been very much interested this afternoon in these proceedings, in the dignified and excellent program, and in the remarks of President Grant and others who have spoken.
One of President Grant's remarks brought this thought to me: What would be the progress of this Church today if the Relief Societies had not been founded? Where would we be? There would not be the close sympathy and friendship, the thoughtfulness and care for the poor, nor the sweet, mutual helpfulness that has grown up into the family life of the Latter-day Saints. No one can ever measure by figures or facts the great work that has been accomplished by this organization.
The Presiding Bishopric feel it an honor to work with the Relief Society, and wish to help forward the work all we possibly can. Through weekly meetings, and other meetings as occasions arise, between the Presiding Bishopric and the Relief Society