CALLIS President of Relief Societies, Southern States Mission I rejoice to be a worker in the Relief Society with my Southern sisters. They are naturally a kind, hospitable people, and so respond readily to the call of the Relief Society work, and are willing at all times to give their time, their talent, and their means in this great work. I desire for a moment to speak of some of the spiritual activities among the sisters in the Southern States. The sisters in the mission field, perhaps more than our sisters in the stakes of Zion, feel the necessity and the responsibility of promulgating the gospel, and so to them is given, or should be given, much credit for the establishment of places of worship in the missions. Recently, in Memphis, Tennessee, a little chapel was erected and the women of the Relief Society worked diligently in this service, and through their efforts, from parties, the sale of cakes, etc., they were able to contribute hundreds of dollars to the building fund. In Columbus, Georgia, we have recently added a Sunday School room to our chapel, and the Re-ief Society raised the money for the seats and for the other furnishings. The Springfield Branch of Jacksonville, Florida, recently were accorded the privilege of selling cakes at the front entrance ot one of the large department stores of that city, from the sale of which they raised over $100, which will be used for the benefit of a chapel to be erected in that city. In Petersburg, Virginia, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 299 and in Danville, Virginia, the Societies are taking the responsibility of purchasing lots on which they hope to erect chapels. In Petersburg they have an unfortunate old man without means of - support, and the Relief Society is giving him help. In Atlanta we have a dear sister who also is without relatives and who has reached the age where she is not able to work and make her own living. We have rented a room for her and are giving her her food and clothing. We raised some of the means to help in this work by holding a rummage sale. The merchants of the city gave some of the left-over stock, and we were accorded free of charge places in one of the public markets to dispose of our wares, and so gratifying were the results from this rummage sale that we are planning to have another in the near future. We have an organization in one of our Indian nations, composed of our Lamanite women. They make very interesting and unique articles of pottery, which are sold to tourists and in this way they raise means to help them in their work. Often the tourists meet with them in their meetings and are impressed with the faithfulness of these dear women. One of the interesting features of our Relief Society work is the influence that it is having in the outlying districts where the sisters are not permitted to meet in organizations. They feel in their hearts a desire to be useful and to do something that is helpful, and they make quilts, pillow slips, dresser scarfs, and send them in to mission headquarters for the benefit of the needy. Recently we had an elderly sick man in one of the hospitals, and each morning he found in his room a beautiful bouquet of flowers. The one who sent them did not wish her identity discovered, but sent word, however, that she was an aged relative of the Prophet Joseph Smith. My dear sisters, many of you who are before me today have sons and daughters or loved ones in the mission field. In the Southern States mission it has been my privilege and blessing to meet with these dear ones, sent from your homes, and I want to say to you that the wonderful influence that the mothers have over their sons and daughters, and the teachings they have given them in their youth, are ripened in the mission field, and this is the great thing that helps them to go on in this great field of service. During the last month there came under my observation the sorrow of two elders, bowed in grief from the death of their mothers at home. In each case President Callis gave permission for them to return home with honorable releases. But. They each remained, saying, ""My dear mother desired that. I fill my mission in honor. She would desire me to stay in the field, and so I will stay." May the influence of the good women of this Church still 
 continue to shed its light and. Go forth and help to hold the world together. May we all be anxiously engaged in the good cause to bring forth much righteousness, is my prayer. "MRS. RACHEL GRANT TAYLOR President of Relief Societies, Northern States Mission The mission presidents are like mothers in a way. I claimed a big family of girls when I was at the L. D. S.  and now I have a big family of missionaries, The only trouble is that in the cases of some of your sons and daughters, I do not see them as often as I should like to. If there is one ambition in my heart it is to make the mission home a home. We are glad to have all the missionaries join our big family. Our hearts go out to these wonderful boys and girls and we are proud of the progress they are making, and of their development. I feel very inexperienced in Relief Society work. When I was. Told that my husband was to preside over the mission, and that in most cases the wife of the mission president becomes president of the Relief Society, I was nearly overcome. I have worked in Church organizations all my life, but it happened that I worked in the Primary, and in the Sunday School, and in the Mutual. I am learning all the time, however, and hope to carry out the desires of the General Board successfully. We have in the Northern States mission thirteen organizations, All of the different organizations have studied all of the subjects as outlined in the Magazine. I feel proud of the fact that out of the sixty-three officers we have, fifty-nine subscribe for our Relief Society Magazine. Next year, if possible, we will have 100%. One thing that we are trying to emphasize in the mission field is the gospel conversations and things of that type that we do. I believe that in the mission field the duties of the Relief Society officers vary a little from those in the stakes, because conditions are different. Women missionaries have a wonderful opportunity of preaching the gospel. They go into homes, where the missionaries would not be received. By their lives they teach the gospel. Last year over thirteen hundred gospel conversations were held, and many Church books were sold by them. These records and figures do not always show the amount of work actually done, but they are an index to what is being accomplished.: I sent out to the Relief Societies in our field three questions —the. Type of question which I think is a good thing for us to ask ourselves in regard to the gospel of Christ. 1. What does Relief Society mean to you? 2. What does it do for you? 3. In what ways does it strengthen the branch and build up the branch with RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 301 which you are connected? In sending out the questionnaire I had a double object. I wanted these members of the association not only to send that report to me but I wanted these members to take stock of what the Relief Society meant to them, what it could be as an upbuilding force in the community in which they lived. It was inspiring to receive the letters. In answer. Under the first question, one answer said that the Relief Society was a light to their path, and a guide to their feet, that it was the next thing to their homes; that it gives an opportunity to develop, both as individuals and groups, and that through the doctrine of good works, a firmer faith is gained. Also, in another way, some one expressed it that the Relief Society gives opportunity for practical application of the gospel principles. Many of the responses ' expressed appreciation for the Magazine and for the lessons outlined in it. In a very personal letter, one woman said, it was a prop to her when she was discouraged and downhearted. Many of them said that the thing that appeals to them is the meetings for they feel that these are their own meetings. Under the second question, some of the answers were that the Relief Society gives the women confidence in taking part, and in assuming responsibility. Answers taqthe third question included among other thoughts, this, that the Relief Societies are depended upon and relied upon for much of the important practical work in the branches, such as furnishing carpet or extra chairs, or sacrament service for the new chapel. During the last year two of our organizations have donated $100 each for the building fund, and when you consider the size of these organizations, this is a wonderful record, for they have an average attendance of but 15. I feel that the Relief Society women in this mission are living up to the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in helping and strengthening the Church in every field of endeavor, MRS. MARIE YOUNG President of Relief Societies, Northwestern States Mission Since my appointment, I have visited the coast cities of our mission, and expect this coming year to visit the remaining branches if possible. In the city of Portland, we have an interesting Relief Society, and meetings are all well attended. At the present time this branch is busily engaged in raising funds to put in a new heating system in the chapel. Our branch Relief Societies hold a fair each year to raise charity funds, and the members are busily engaged during the summer in preparing for these fairs. They make aprons and quilts and various kinds of fancy work, and the proceeds from the sale of these articles are used 
 MAGAZINE to help those who are in need. We had an incident occur in the Portland Branch that I wish to mention. Two of our young married couples bought and installed a radio set in the room of a blind sister who is an inmate of an old ladies' home, and in whom the Relief Society is very much interested, and the joy of that sister in this kind act can hardly be expressed. In the Spokane Branch we have another large society, and during the winter months, these members have been busily engaged in remodeling clothing for those who are in need, regardless of religious affiliations. In Seattle, Washington, we have two active Societies, and in the East Seattle Branch they have a fine Relief Society choir under the able direction of one of the members. A part of the Seattle branch is a little town called Black Diamond, and here the elders in their tracting found a number of our young people who had gone out into the northwest to work in the coal mines, and had drifted away from all Church activities, and had almost forgotten the Church. They are now living the lives of real Latter-day Saints, and attending to their Church duties. We organized a Relief Society there last year which is a 100% Society. They hold meetings in the evening, as the women keep the stores, etc., while the men work. The men attend and take just as much part in the Relief Society outlines and studies as do the women, and are as much interested. The British Columbia Society in Vancouver is very much interested in Relief Society work. They have a capable president and are taking up the Magazine lessons. I received a letter from one of the presidents in the Montana conference which said that they had. Made quilts and other articles for those who are in need, and one mother who has six children and who underwent an operation last fall, has been helped especially by the Society. The women put up one hundred quarts of fruit for her, buying the fruit and the sugar; they took her piece bag and made her two quilts, and did everything possible to help the mother through the winter. We have organized during the past year seven new societies, four since the beginning of this year. They are all very small, but we are endeavoring to place before them the value of Relief Society work. The Magazine is a blessing in the missions, especially since we are so far away from the general headquarters, and it is fully appreciated. At Christmas time all the Societies send out baskets for the poor and for the sick. We are all very much interested in the Sheppard-Towner act, and in maternity work generally. We have suggested to the Societies that they put a maternity chest in each of their branches, tuch a chest to include everything that would be needed in any sickness. I can not say. Too much for the work of our young lady missionaries. They are a great help in keeping up the morale of _ 304 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE members of the organization, as well as that you should mention the benefits derived from membership. The Relief Society teachers and special visitors. Go from home to home are doing a very splendid work. The number of visits which have been made by the Relief Society teachers alone during the past year is more than 569,000. Now, if you are doing as we have suggested—taking up the teachers' topics as a subject of conversation during your visits to the members of the wards, we feel that very great good is being accomplished, because in these topics are given studies of the gospel, some of the topics of the day, and other matter which will be not only of very great interest to the teachers, but also to the families visited. We have felt that by making an organized effort along this line that we would be able to accomplish much good; that we would be able to increase the faith of the women and the children that we visit, and that in every way we would be helping to build up the Church and to encourage the activities and the work of the Relief Society organizations. As well as the visits of the Relief Society teachers, we sometimes send out visitors especially to those whom we call the homebound—those of our sisters who are confined to their homes through illness or through disability, and are not able to get out to the meetings,—with a view of taking a little sunshine into such homes. We also do our part in preparing the dead for burial. And we feel that it is a very sacred work which has been given to us to do. During last year our Relief Society women have assisted in preparing for burial over 2,500 members of the communities. In addition to this work we want to say to you that we believe better work has been done in looking after those in our communities who are not able to take care of themselves, in a financial way, or who need some assistance in their homes of a financial nature, as well as other help. We feel that our co-operation with the bishops and the help that we give them, and the spirit which is actuating the Relief Society presidencies and the bishoprics to get closer together in their work, is resulting in very great good in the Church, and that as time goes on we shall see the result of our efforts in not only providing for the emergency wants of those who are in! Need of assistance, but that we shall be able through study and careful planning and work to assist them to overcome the disabilities under which they are laboring, and that they will be able to be more helpful to themselves. There have been several reorganizations during the past year. We should like to read. The names of those dear women who have been honorably released, and the names of the women who have been called to take their places: RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 305 REORGANIZATIONS REPORTED SINCE OcToBER, 1923 Alberta stake, reorganized November 1, 1923, Mrs, Annie D. Snow, released, Mrs. Jane W. Bates, appointed president; 'Ensign stake, reorganized November 19, 1923; Mrs. Elise B. Alder, released, Mrs. Irene M. Richards, appointed president; Utah stake, reorganized January 13, 1924, Mrs. Inez K. Allen released, Mrs. Electa S. Dixon, appointed president; Idaho stake, reorganized January 26, 1924, Mrs. Sarah M. Banks, released, Mrs. Delia Lechtenberg, appointed president; Rigby stake, reorganized March, 1924, Mrs. Elizabeth J. Hart, released, Mrs. Lettie E. Call, appointed president; Hawaiian mission, reorganized August 4, 1923, Mrs. May Smith, released, Mrs. Louise C. Neff, appointed president; Samoan mission, reorganized 1923, Mrs. Thurza A. Adams, released, Mrs. Nettie L. Butler, appointed president. We wish to say to you that these women who have been released from their duties Have in every way filled the office acceptably. They have given entire satisfaction to the General Board, and we know that they have given satisfaction to the communities in which their labors have been given, and there have been good and sufficient reasons why these releases have been made, some because of illness, some because of removal, and other causes. We regret to report that just yesterday, Sister Signe A. Davis, president of the Blackfoot stake Relief Society, was called home to her heavenly Father. Sister Davis has been a progressive, capable president, and we, with her family and her intimate friends, mourn her demise. As Relief Society women and as the mothers in our communities, we fee] that very grave responsibility rests with us; we are interested in our own organization, and in the desire to build it up and to do everything we can to forward it. We are also interested in the rising generation. We are deeply interested in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and in the Primary Association. They are doing excellent work, and endeavoring in every way to lay the foundation in the hearts and minds of the children and young people for their future growth 'and helpfulness in the Church. We feel that we can assist both of these organizations by taking an interest in the work and by supporting them at all times. I presume you women are all acquainted with the recreation work which is being carried on under the direct supervision of the M. I. A., and that you are co-operating in every way to make it a success. We want to say to you, sisters, that we must never get too old to play. We must never be too old to endeavor to throw off our daily cares occasionally and take up a little recreational work, which would put our minds to rest and help our 306... RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bodies to be younger. We commend this work to you. I believe I may be safe in saying to you, however, that we think it is not necessary for our Relief-Society women to carry it too far. We believe that we are rather a dignified organization as the mothers of the Church, and we feel that our recreation must be carried on in a dignified way, not in a boisterous, rollicking way. I think you will all remember how the Relief Society, for many years, talked to you on the fly problem. We are now perfectly delighted to have to say to you that the Primary children—80,000 Primary children, through the advice of their General Board, this coming year are waging death and destruction to the fly, and we want you to help them and encourage them in every way you can. You know that the fly is one of the deadliest of insects, and we feel that you should encourage your children and your Primary officers in letting them know that you are heart and soul in harmony with them in this work.
Now, in all our communities, my dear sisters, we feel that the Relief Society women are the right hand of all civic improvement organizations, and we look to you not only to assist but to inaugurate movements which shall have for their object the cleaning up, the betterment, and the health of your communities. There is little use for our meeting together to discuss betterment work unless we go back to our communities and work with all our strength in the interest of bettering conditions. We want to commend especially one little ward of less than twenty Relief Society members, in a stake in the south, which is working with the bishop and others to get a little park started, where they may meet for recreation during the summer time. We have endeavored to give them the encouragement that was necessary for them to have, by sending to them some literature, that will be helpful, and by suggesting to them some ways in which they will be able to get some financial help in carrying out that project.
My dear sisters, the greatest thing of all for the Relief Society women is to have faith in their heavenly Father, and the belief that we belong to the true and living Church, and that through our efforts the work will progress and will be built up until the time is ripe for the coming of the Savior. It is essential with all the many cares and duties that we have, that we should be loving and kind to those about us, that harmony should dwell in our homes and be in our relations with those of our neighbors and friends, that we should be charitable in the true sense of the word, and free from fault-finding. Perhaps some of us may naturally be a little inclined not always to agree with what is going on, but let us endeavor to be in harmony with the spirit of the gospel, as it is promulgated to us through the anointed of the Lord.


recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, says, "I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men, and ye ought to say in your hearts, 'let God judge between me and thee according to thy deeds.'" I heard the other day of a woman who lived on the same street as her father and yet she had not spoken to him for many years. I heard also of a Relief Society president who, upon learning that one of the members of the Society was offended because of some action on the part of the presidency of the Relief Society, went to the home of this sister and tried to talk matters over, to apologize, if necessary, and make things right, but this sister could find no place in her heart for forgiveness and so the president turned away sorrowing for that sister. Which of the two women would be happiest today? My father has often said: "Hate hurts the hater worse than the hated." Peter, on one occasion, said to Jesus, "How oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times? And Jesus said unto him, "I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven." Then he said, "Therefore is the Kingdom of Heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants and one was brought unto him which owed him ten thousand talents, but forasmuch as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold and his wife and children and all that he had and payment to be made. The servant, therefore, fell down and worshiped him saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him and forgave him the debt.
"But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellow-servants which owed him an hundred pence; and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellow-servant fell down at his feet and besought him saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not; but went and cast him into prison.
"So when his fellow-servants saw what was done, they were very sorry and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Then the Lord after that he had called him, said unto him, O, thou wicked servant. I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me: Shouldst not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow-servant, even as I had pity on thee? And his Lord was wroth, and delivered him unto the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brothers their trespasses."
Is it not a truth that Jesus taught us to pray: Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against us,