social service, will be able to give help to you. It is a wonderful work to care for the poor, the sick, and the feeble, and to improve conditions of life, and to work for the conservation of human life, and no effort is too great for that.
As a Presiding Bishopric, we are very much in favor of the improved methods of caring for the poor. We agree heartily with the General Board and its officers that about the worst thing we can do is to dole out money. We are urging our bishoprics everywhere to discontinue that habit, and to co-operate with the Relief Society presidents, and form an organization for the purpose of following the best methods of caring for the poor. We are glad to see this constructive work develop. We also are glad to see that the old habit is still in force of the visiting teachers of the Relief Society going to the homes. There is something far more valuable in the visit than in the collecting of a few cents. The value of the visits of these thousands of teachers into the homes of the Latter-day Saints, carrying comfort and cheer and helpfulness, carrying advice and counsel and sympathy, can never be measured. I only wish that out of the 87,000 families in this Church, instead of 55,973 persons being enrolled in the Relief Societies, there were 87,000. All the people in my opinion need the lessons outlined in the Relief Society Magazine, especially our young mothers and young married people. There is something to be done to encourage this bright, intelligent class of young women to enroll in the Relief Society and partake of these lessons pertaining to the fundamentals of life and religion.
A great work you are doing—a wonderful work; no one appreciates it more than the Presiding Bishopric. I pray that the Lord may bless you with the spirit of it, and spur you on to higher ideals, and give you the intelligence to apply the very best methods to carry out your work.


STAKE PRESIDENTS' MEETING
Monday morning, April 7, the stake and mission presidents of the Relief Society met at Relief Society headquarters to receive special instructions and to bear testimony.