VITAL STATISTICS AND MATERNITY WELFARE By Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner of Utah
Dr. T. B. Beatty, in his discussion of "Vital Statistics," stated that prior to 1905 there was no provision in the State of Utah for the registration of births and deaths. In 1905 a model law was passed. This law has stood the test of time, and is now being adopted as a uniform law all over the United States. It provides that there shall be appointed in the state,


in every voting precinct, a local registrar whose duty it is to register births and deaths. The original certificate is sent to the State Board of Health, where it is filed and indexed in such a way that information may be furnished readily regarding any birth. The same is true of death registration. There are now filed in the vaults of the State Board of Health at the Capitol, the original certificates covering the births of 200,000 children who have been born since 1905; also the certificates covering the deaths of nearly all the people who have died since that year. Utah now has recognition in the Census Bureau as a registration state.
When this recognition was granted in 1917, a representative of the Census Bureau who came to Utah found that the State Board of Health had the most complete record of birth certificates in the United States. All states do not have provision for birth registration of babies, but do have provision for registration in the case of calves and pigs. In connection with this statement, Dr. Beatty told the story of a very important case which was brought up for settlement. The son of a wealthy man tried to cheat his own daughter of the estate which had been left to her. The settlement of the case hinged on establishing the birth of the daughter, and since there was no provision for birth registration in that state, no record had been made. Finally some one remembered that there was born on the farm of this man on the same day the child was born, a calf, and the calf was registered, and thus the child's birth was established.
Requests are constantly coming to the State Board of Health for copies of birth certificates, in order that passports may be secured. During the war it was pathetic to see the effort made to secure copies of birth certificates which did not exist.
The value of birth registration is set forth in the following eleven reasons:
1. That the birth, date of birth, parentage and other essential information for governmental and identification purposes may be made a matter of official record.
2. That the ages of school children may be definitely known, making the proper enforcement of school laws possible.
3. That the laws affecting child labor may be enforced and the children of the poor thereby protected.
4. That labor may become safer by the elimination of children under legal age from all hazardous occupations.
5. That the law-abiding employers of youth may be protected.
6. That prosecution dealing with "age of consent" may be settled by record and not by conjecture.
7. That litigation in matters of inheritance and settlement
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 277
of estates may be simplified by the definite knowledge of the ages of all persons concerned. 8. That the American-born children of foreign-born parents may have indisputable evidence of American birth which will protect them from enforced military service when visiting the mother country of the parents. 9. That blindness may be prevented by prompt medical attention to the infected eyes of the new-born. 10. That infection and mortality among women may be prevented, and that young babies may be saved by immediate attention by existing agencies for the relief of the poor. 11. That the Bureau of Child Hygiene may carry out its duties efficiently.
Registration of deaths is also an important factor in the promotion of the health program of the state. Health officials work blindly unless they know where people are dying and from what causes. Registration of deaths enables us to determine how many deaths occur from preventable causes. It is the melancholy duty of the state health commissioner to scan the death certificates, and note the number of persons that ought not to be dead. A year ago the commissioner might have reported that he could not give the names of the fifteen hundred people who would die in the state in the next year of preventable diseases, but the names are available now.
Registration shows that typhoid fever and measles kill more children than scarlet fever and diphtheria; that twenty-five percent of infants die before they are a month old; that twenty percent of the entire death rate is among children under one year of age. A more strict observance of quarantine regulations would aid materially in lowering the death rate among children from contagious diseases.
Utah has the highest birth rate in the United States, which is over thirty children to each thousand of the population. The birth rate of the United States, outside of Utah, does not exceed twenty-four. Where there is a high birth rate there is usually a high death rate also. This is not the case in Utah; on the contrary, the death rate here is one of the lowest in the United States. This is an evidence of the good care which the children within the state are receiving.
Reasons for registration of deaths are given as follows:
1. That there may be available, complete and accurate information as to deaths of all human beings, with dates of death and causes of death, to the end that preventable causes of death may be eliminated and human lives lengthened.
2. That the various public health agencies—national, state and municipal—and the various private agencies for the preven-


tion of diseases may know the number of deaths that occur and thereby may operate intelligently. 3. That these agencies may determine what part of our mortality is preventable and when and where preventable deaths occur. 4. That pestilential and epidemic diseases may be detected promptly. 5. That we may apply our remarkable scientific knowledge of disease prevention intelligently at the time and in the place where such application is most needed. 6. That the success or failure of all measures attempted in the prevention of disease may be accurately determined. 7. That individual cities and localities may learn their own health condition by comparison with the conditions of other communities and determine thereby the wise course of public health activity. 8. That home-seekers and immigrants may be guided in the selection of safe and healthful homes by accurate information rather than by misstatements of interested persons. 9. That life insurance companies may be enabled to engage intelligently in movements to protect their policy holders from death and suffering due to preventable diseases and accidents. 10. That the settlement of estates and matters of inheritance, pensions, etc., may be definitely settled by official record of death instead of on the memory of interested witnesses.
Dr. Beatty made an earnest appeal for the cooperation of the people in the registration of vital statistics. He urged the delegates at the meeting to seek to interest the women of the Relief Society in this matter. Parents should know how important it is to have children's births registered, and should see that the doctor sends in the birth certificates.
The work of the Utah State Board of Health in the interest of maternity and child welfare was spoken of by Dr. Beatty. During the past twelve years, upon receipt of every birth certificate, a booklet of rules for the feeding and care of infants has been sent to every mother. The infant rate has been greatly reduced since 1910, but it can be further reduced.
The correction of defects in children is a very important matter. Infected tonsils and adenoids, if uncorrected, lead to disease, and are a menace to the child's whole future life and efficiency. A Child Hygiene Bureau has been created, with one nurse on the staff, and with the aid of the government a traveling clinic secured. This clinic went throughout the state, with the idea of educating the people to the need of giving attention to the correction of defects.
Then came the Sheppard-Towner law, enacted at the behest of the women of the country; and it is to
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 279
their credit that they thus served notice on men who think in terms of livestock and rivers and transportation measures, that the time had come when some money must be spent for the welfare of the babies of the country. The pro rata allotment from the government to the State of Utah is $8,000, which is matched by $8,000 appropriated by the state of Utah at the last legislature, largely through the efforts of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and others who worked hard to get this appropriation. In addition to this $16,000 provided by the government and the state, $5,000 is given outright by the government, making a total of $21,000.
The Sheppard-Towner work was actively begun in Utah last August, and since that time fifty-five health clinics have been held, and many health centers established. More than two thousand children have been carefully examined at these clinics, and over eight thousand defects have been found in the children examined—defects which, if not corrected, would lead to permanent deformity and inefficiency and early death. The money which is available through the Sheppard-Towner act is for educational purposes and is not available for use in the local health centers.
Dr. Beatty stated that letters are sent monthly by the State Board of Health to expectant mothers, which aim to give the women the information they need. These letters are available for all expectant mothers in the state, and will be sent free of charge upon application to the State Board of Health. In order to be of the most possible benefit, requests for these letters should state the month of pregnancy of the woman to whom they are to be mailed, so that the expectant mother will receive the information she desires at the time when it will be most helpful to her.
Following Dr. Beatty's address, there was a discussion of maternity welfare work lead by President Williams. The following items were taken from reports by stake representatives who contributed to the discussion:
Mrs. Fanny C. Harper, president of the Juarez stake Relief Society, compared conditions in Mexico, with regard to maternity care, to those conditions which existed in the early days in Utah. In some localities doctors may be had, but in many communities the women are entirely dependent upon midwives. They are fortunate, however, in having a very efficient midwife. The Relief Society women in this stake have carried out the recommendations of the General Board with regard to the establishment of maternity bundles in the various wards, which are a great benefit to the women there.


Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, president of Boise stake, reported that the Relief Society women in Idaho are cooperating with the state health officials as much as possible. The work of the Child Hygiene Bureau of this state is carried on chiefly in the outlying communities of the state.
Mrs. Lily B. Gledhill, president of the Sevier stake, told of the health center at Richfield, which is well equipped and maintained by five wards. This center is open on the second Thursday of every month. The stake presidency have given the Relief Society a room in the tithing building, where the clinics are held. The doctors of the community gladly take turns in being in attendance at the clinics and in examining the mothers and children. The women's clubs, Red Cross, Relief Society, and other agencies, work together to finance the center.
In the Cottonwood stake a clinic was established a year before the administration of the Sheppard-Towner act was begun, and this clinic was one of the first to cooperate with the State Board of Health. It has been financed entirely by the Relief Society of the stake. The clinic is held weekly every Thursday, from ten to twelve in the morning, and one or two graduate