EDITORIAL


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. XI JUNE, 1924 No. 6
President Williams' Birthday
April 21 marked the anniversary of President Williams' birth. The Magazine extends to her hearty felicitations, and trusts that there will be many returns of her birthday anniversary.
THE HOTEL UTAH BANQUET
The banquet and reception tendered by the stake and mission presidents to the members of the General Board on the evening of April 3, 1924, proved satisfactory and enjoyable in every respect. Chairman, Myrtle B. Shurtliff, president of Liberty stake, and the committee of Salt Lake City stake presidents that worked with her, must be highly gratified at the results of their far-seeing and capable planning. The members of the General Board stood in line on the Mezzanine floor of the Hotel Utah from 7:15 p. M. until the hour of the banquet. Each member received from the committee, a beautiful bouquet of flowers that, so greatly enhanced her appearance that a member of a stake Board, who saw them pass into the banquet room remarked that it looked like a bridal procession. The tables were lavishly decorated with gold and white flowers, carrying out the Relief Society colors. The place cards, particularly attractive, were small white cards bearing on their face, in gold letters, not only the name of the individual designed to occupy the place, but a monogram of the National Women's


Relief Society, and under it the Relief Society motto, Charity Never Faileth; also the date, Hotel Utah, April 3, 1924. The printed programs are in keeping with the place cards. The outside cover bears these words, "National Women's Relief Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Banquet and Reception, Complimentary to the Officers and Members of the General Board, given by the Relief Society Stake and Mission Presidents, Hotel Utah, Salt Lake City, Thursday, April Third, Nineteen Hundred Twenty-four." On the first page is a photograph of President Clarissa Smith Williams. This is followed by a well chosen menu. On the opposite side is the program of music and toasts. The next page contains the names of officers and members of the General Board and names of the committee on arrangements consisting of the presidents of Liberty, Granite, Ensign, Salt Lake, and Pioneer stakes. The page following bears the names of stake presidents, ninety in number, and the last page contains the names of the sixteen mission presidents.
The musical features of the program were highly attractive. The Ladies Quartette from the University of Utah, in its select numbers, was very much appreciated, the quality and the blending of the voices being particularly pleasing. The artistic rendition of the numbers of Miss Margaret Summerhays will last in the memory of those who listened to her, for a long time. Mrs. Elsie B. Alder, in her new role as toastmistress, was pleasing and entertaining in her introductions, interspersed as they were with snatches of humor, sometimes couched in verse and sometimes in story. Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, president of Blaine stake, responded to the toast. Our President; Mrs. Katherine Romney Stewart, president of Los Angeles stake, The General Board; Mrs. Evelyn Lyman, president of Union stake, Stakes and Mistakes; and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, A Vision of the Future. We had hoped to include the toasts in this issue of the Magazine, but we are not in possession of a sufficient number at this writing to do so. Grace was offered by Counselor Louise Y, Robison, and President Clarissa Smith Williams made a response after the toast, Our President. Counselor Jennie B. Knight's response followed the toast on behalf of the General Board. Both President Williams and Counselor Jennie B. Knight expressed appreciation for the entertainment of the evening, so effective in the perfection of its details, and so kindly provided by the stake and mission presidents of the Relief Society.
My Father
I see my father bent and worn, With slow and feeble step; I note the furrows on his brow, The lack of one-time pep.
His shaky hands can no more grasp The duties of this life; No more those self-same hands control Or stem the storm and strife.
His weakened eyes and weary face Proclaim a tired soul; Resigned to all the aches and woes If he can reach the goal.
His drooping posture plainly shows The burdens borne for years; His every move seems somewhat sad For he no longer hears?
The voice of little children dear, Who welcomed his return From toil and labor freely done; For them his heart does yearn. He prays their steps may go aright, Their days be filled with grace; That no regrets, from sin, will find In them a resting place. Just what has brought about this change? Can I o'erlook the cause? I know full well, from long years back, With little rest or pause? He's labored well from morn till night, With faithful, willing heart; Supplying needs of those he loves; Performing his true part. And now while I am young and strong, For duty, yes and love, May I receive the aid I need From Father up above? To help increase the faith and hope ? That in my father dwells That he may reap the good he's done, Until his poor heart swells. May I but spare the time and place? And count it blessings rare To minister to all his needs; Of God's command beware? To honor parents, that my days May longer be below, To serve and give to them while here, And truer love bestow. ?Elsie E. Barrett.  You would go across the continent for such an educational feast as this. And here you have it?right at your door! ANATIONAL Summer School Courses and lectures by men of world renown. College credit, with special classes for certification of teachers in service or training. "AMERICA'S GREATEST SUMMER FACULTY" Special faculty includes: Allee, Chicago; Angell, Yale; Blackwelder, Stanford; Branson, N. Carolina; Car- ' ruth, Stanford; Cowles, Chicago; Franzen, California; Knappen, U. Of Kansas; Merk, Harvard; McClain, Detroits McCollum, Johns Hopkins; Reed, Ohio State U.; Shearer, Long Beach; Thorndike, Columbia; Turner, Harvard; Wood, Columbia. Special lecturers: Wm. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, David. Starr Jordan, Shailer Matthews, E. A. Steiner, A. E. Winship and John Adams of London U. Unique recreation features and excursions to world-famed scenic places. (Special faculty and lecturers to serve through entire first 6 weeks.) 1st term: June 9 to July 18. 2nd term: July 21 to Aug. 29. Register June 6 or 7. Fee $25 for 6 or 12 weeks. Write for Catalog. Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah ? There is no Substitute for Electric Cooking Call in and see our electric ranges. Types and prices to please everybody. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service {? ~ Compare the Pages of Che Desrret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read - it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense?And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 
 REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches. And successfully used in Utah and_Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver. Heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in. Receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness.". BUREAU OF INFORMATION | Temple Block Salt Lake City . Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hesiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs 5.78 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable. Per Pair. $1.50 Box of Three Pair.......$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair. $1.65 Box of three pairs?$4.75 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair. 1.65 Box of Three Pairs 3.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID  Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah" By Mrs. J. Long, ? 50c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine. 100 Sheets of Fine Writing Paper 100 Regular Size Envelopes $1.50 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly. Universal Stationery Supply Co. 315?24th Street OGDEN, UTAH To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management A Dish of Delight When the fam