FROM BEAVER TO ST. GEORGE.

	From Beaver the road is interesting af-
ter leaving the main highway, when it
takes an easterly direction through the fa-
mous Fremont-pass, gradually growing nar-
rower until the rocks are from two to three
hundred feet, perpendicular, ragged, and ir-
regular, with deep fissures where the ce-
dar and pine have thrown their firm,
strong roots and resist the fierce gales that
sweep like avenging spirits over mountain
and glen. Six miles from the entrance
some small springs are found, which sup-
ply the tired traveler with the cool refresh-
ing draught of clear, soft, water; passing
along, mountain and hill-side are covered
with the verdure of the evergreen trees
and shrubs and the simple though beauti-
ful wild flowers of which there is a great
variety, lark-spurs, roses, violets, and the
sage, in whose deep, beautiful cup the
honey-bee revels joyously until the last
leaf drops faded forever; the aspen in smal
groves here and there quivers in the
breeze, as if truly in affright (as tradition
has it) at the most solemn scene of the Sav-
ior's crucifixion.
	The road from the springs for some dis-
tance is very uneven and rocky, opening
presently into a small valley within
whose bounds the Prarie Dog, a species of
Marmot lives in comparative security and
peace, greeting the traveler at times with
his short snapping bark. Of two roads here,
one diverging to the right passes almost
directly through Bear Valley, cutting off,
it is said, some miles of rocky road, the oth-
er continuing on almost in the same direc-
tion as at first, passes over the hills reach-
ing the Sevier, some miles below the other,
crossing on its way a long stretch called
the five mile rocky hill. The road leading
through Bear Valley Cañon is most delight-
ful; the bottom lands covered in some pla-
ces with a species of wheat grass, tall and
thrifty, also the common grass which cat-
tle prefer, in abundance; tiny springs form
a small stream called Bear Creek which
flows into the Sevier a short distance be-
low the mouth of the cañon.
	Along the Sevier the country presents a
different aspect, dotted here and there with
farm houses and ranch buildings, many of
which are now deserted as the range in
many places has been completely over-
stocked with cattle. Many very thrifty
farms are seen, with beautiful meadows
yielding a large supply of hay; wheat and
corn are raised in abundance. The scenery
is grandly sublime in many places. Arriv-
ing at Panguitch, (so called from the lake
above, which provides the inhabitants with
a plentiful supply of fish and a clear stream
of soft water flowing through all parts
of the town;) here we find an abundance of
excellent butter and cheese; very few veg-
etables being raised within its limits; quite
a number of the inhabitants spend their
summers ranching, and because of this the
place has a somewhat untidy appearance.
Here a very good bridge crosses the Se-
vier about a mile from the town, the only
one in this part of the country as the stream
is forded in many places, and grows gradu-
ally smaller as the road proceeds toward
the rim of the basin, the dividing line be-
tween the northern and southern slope; as
the Sevier loses its tributaries it becomes
a bright, clear stream only the size of a
common creek; the water soft and of a de-
licious coolness issuing from a cañon on the
right, supplied with springs far up among
the pines, where those fond of fish can ex-
ercise their patience by catching, with hook
and line, the spotted mountain trout, or

[Column 2]

gather, in its season, the wild fruit which
grows here in abundance. Mr. Wm. Asa
resides at the mouth of the cañon, and trav-
elers often find rest and refreshment here,
in this solitude.
	Leaving this place a small stream on the
left flowing from springs near the rim of
the basin, is covered in spots with a curious
plant that seems to float on the water, bear-
ing small white flowers, very much resem-
bling the common plum blossom, and delic-
iously fragrant, having long vine-like stems
and feathery leaves. The road gradually
ascending to Cutter's ranch, a distance of
two miles, diverging to the right, traverses
a long swell of wire-grass land; the hill
sides along are not as steep here, and are
covered with tall pines. Cliffs of red and
white sand stone, castellated and strangely
picturesque arise here and there forming
most beautiful scenery, and one might eas-
ily imagine they were the remains of some
ruined city of Old.
	Entering the pine forest after a drive of
two or three miles, a small log cabin on a
knoll is the next sign of life and habitation,
though only a snmmer residence, the place
being used for a sheep ranch. Cattle de-
sert the grass land below during the hot
weather on account of the large fly which
is too annoying to endure. The road from
here is a delightful drive through open
glades, sunny nooks, and shady dells, grad-
ually ascending, thus bringing the traveler
to the RIM of the great basin of North
America; from whence the descent passes
through a dense pine forest interspersed
with plants and flowers whose rich perfume
floats out on the summer air, mingling with
that of pine and cedar, bringing as it were,
new life to both body and mind, and charm-
ing the eye with varied tints and changing
hues.
