	CLARKESTON, CACHE Co.,
		Eeb. 17th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The First of this month the Relief Socie-
ty of Clarkeston held their Annual Meet-
ing, and a report of the past year's doings
was read, which showed that the poor had
been cared for: We have paid nine dollars
and seventy-five cents to the Sunday School,
twenty-one dollars to the Salt Lake Temple,
twenty-five dollars for a share in the Wool-
en Factory being built in Logan; we have
about forty dollars in shares in the Co-op
Store, we have also a small sheep herd, and
we have commenced to save a little wheat,
we have about thirty bushels in the bin, and
expect to get some more. Our settlement
is small; but the sisters feel willing to assist
in building up the sisters feel willing to assist
in building up the kingdom of God. Our
worthy Bishop, Bro. John Jardine, met
with us and gave us some valuable instruc-
tions. He certainly is the right man in the
right place. A number of other brethren
were there. The people here are busy get-
ting the materials together to build a new
meeting house; we expect to have it fin-
ished by next fall.
	Union and a good spirit prevail. The
health of the people is good, and we feel
that the blessings of God are with us. The
EXPONENTS come very regularly, and the
sisters are anxious to read them at all times.
Hoping that we may be found faithful to
the end, we remain your sisters in the Gos-
pel,
	MARY GRIFFIN, President.
		JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


[Column 1]
			SMITHFIELD CACHE Co.,
						March 16, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the Relief Society of Smithfield wish
to let you know what we are doing to help
build up Zion. We are building a neat lit-
tle adobie house to hold our metings in.
We got the walls up and the roof on last
fall, and are going to have it finished as
soon as possible now. The young men and
boys hauled the materials, and the society
had two dances and picnics for them. The
boys had a fine time and were so well
pleased that they said they would help the
society again. The brethren donated some
of the work, and we have paid the rest
with quilts made by the Relief and Re-
trenchment Societies. The Retrenchment
Association has done considerable. Our So-
ciety are doing what they can in the Grain
Movement; we have gathered up some-
thing over one hundred bushels of wheat.
Next year we intend to commence sooner,
and gather in the grain in good season, and
think we can do better than we did this
winter. We will exert ourselves early in
harvest time.
		Your sister etc.
