	RIVERDALE, WEBER Co. March 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our worthy President Sister Martha A.
Bingham desired me to write to you. I
trust I may be guided in what I may say
by the spirit of the Lord. Our society is in
a more prosperous condition than it has
been; the sisters seem to be more interested
in the things of the kingdom. Our Society
is small in comparison to many others, our
numbers are about forty in all, the sisters as
a general thing feel to be one with other
Relief Societies in saving and storing grain.
We are not as well off financially as some of
our sisters, but we have a bin prepared and
some few bushels of wheat in it which we
intend adding unto as long as the Lord pros-
pers us with means and plentiful harvests.
	Your excellent paper is always welcome
with us, it is a source of pleasure and com-
fort; we have it read in our meetings occas-
ionally as the spirit directs. May the Lord
bless every honest mother and sister in Is-
rael who are striving to do His will and-
keep His commandments, is the prayer of
your sisters in the Gospel.
			M. A. Bingham, Pres't.
				H. A. CHILD, Sec'y.

				LEHI, March 1st, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place is not
behind the sisters of other settlements in
trying to carry out the counsel of President
Young in storing grain, though we are late
in reporting. A committee was chosen to
visit the sisters and obtain means in that
way or any other that they in their wis-
dom thought best. We are pleased to re-
port to you, that by donations, proceeds
from a party, and other means, we have on
hand more than one hundred bushels of
wheat and with the prospect of more. Not
having a bin of our own, Bishop Evans
kindly proffered us one at the Co-op store
to put it in; and to insure us from all losses
he gave us a written order for the amount,
subject to our call at any time. We expect,
if possible, to build a granary this coming
summer.
	We rejoice to know that the Lord has
counted us worthy to be co-workers in pre-

[Column 2]
paring for that time which has been predict-
ed by ancient and modern prophets, when
famine shall come upon the earth, and hun-
dreds of the inhabitants shall come to Zion
to buy bread of the (now, but not then) de-
spised Latter-day Saints.
	We also wish to aid in helping to publish
the Woman's Book. The EXPONENT is an
ever welcome and most desirable visitor.
With much esteem and kind wishes for
your prosperity and success in your laudable
endeavors to do good, I am
		Yours respectfully,
			REBECCA STANDRING,
						Secretary.

				PAYSON, March 5th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of Payson feel that they have
had a rich treat of late. Sunday, Feb. 4,
Bishop W. G. Young gave us two soul-stir-
ring discourses; he visited the Relief Socie-
ty and the Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association here, imparted wise counsel to
the mothers and daughters. He talked of
the Woman's Book about to be published,
representing its interests, and canvassed
for the "Life of Brigham Young, or Utah
and her Founders." Feb. 11, Bishop Lo-
renzo Young gave us a splendid discourse
in the afternoon, President Joseph Young,
Sen., visited the Sunday School; we could
have sat for hours and listened to his wise
counsel and fatherly advice to old and
young. Monday evening, Feb. 12, Elders
Hardy and Young addressed the Young
Men's Improvement Association, after
which Mrs. Zina Young said she could bear
testimony to all that had been said; the
outside influence felt its power. She spoke
on sericulture, exhibited a specimen of
fringe that had been made for the Temple
at St. George. The feeling with us is that
we have had a feast of fat things, and say
God bless the brethren for their wise coun-
sel, and Sister Zina for comforting and
cheering us with her motherly and inspir-
ing conversation.
	We hail each number of the EXPONENT
with delight, knowing that much valuable
instruction is contained therein; we regret
that it has not a wider circulation in this
place. The sisters all join with me in love.
