SISTERS BE IN EARNEST.

	[The article below is republished from EX-
PONENT No. 10, Oct. 15, 1876. It was written
by SPECIAL request of President Brigham
Young, and approved by him before its publi-
cation. We have been asked to furnish copies
of this article at different times, and having
no spare numbers, we decided to give it to the
public in print again. In consideration also of
its being seed-time, and that this people antic-
ipate storing all the grain they possibly can
this season, they cannot be too deeply im-
pressed with the importance of the Grain
Movement. And in the season thereof let all
the Latter-day Saints forget not to ask Him
who giveth seed time and harvest, to multiply
the measures of harvests that the Saints
throughout all the borders of the land may
have an abundance of grain to store up for
Zion.]
	At the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the wo-
men of this Territory to the subject of saving
grain. It is one important item which Presi-
dent Young has labored diligently to impress
upon this people ever since their residence in
these valleys. His advice has ever been to the
brethren to cultivate the soil and let the mines,
and mining speculations alone, for the grain
was of more consequence than gold or silver.
And these people are witnesses to that fact;
particularly having experienced the scarcity of
provisions and especially of breadstuffs, in the
earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people abundantly
in the few years past in their fields and in their


[Column 1]

stores of grain and provisions; and as in al-
most every other case where there is a profu-
sion of blessings, the people who receive them
become indifferent and do not appreciate them
as they ought. The people have been careless
in regard to taking care of their grain and
many other things. In many instances they
neglect to pay their tithing, and dispose of
their products in such a manner as, were it to
continue, the Lord would be sorely displeased
with them. This year grain is unusually low, yet
the grasshoppers have been visiting different
parts of the Territory, and, it is feared by
many, have laid their eggs; therefore it is
more than ever essential that such measures
be taken as will secure the grain now in mar-
ket. The Relief Societies and Co-operative or-
ganizations in which some of the women of
this Terriory are interested, have funds at
their disposal from time to time, which can be
made available to carry out President Young's
wishes in regard to buying and taking care of
the grain.
	It is in no doubt the best investment of
means that could possibly be made, for if the
prophecies of the Scriptures, both ancient and
modern, and of Joseph Smith are to be fulfill-
ed, which the Latter-day Saints profess to be-
lieve, there will be a desolating famine in the
land; and if the women of this Territory will
be wise, and hearken unto the counsel given to
them now, there is no doubt that the result
will be an eminent success. If the means now
on hand in the societies and women's associa-
tions can be turned into grain, and such meas-
ures taken to store it and preserve it from
damp and all other things that would damage,
or destroy it, as can be made practicable ac-
cording to circumstances and advantages, then
one point will be gained towards the temporal
salvation of this people in case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are gen-
erally earnest, and our advice would be imme-
diately without any delay (except such as is
unavoidable) to commence to carry out Presi-
dent Young's counsel in this matter. Where
there is a will there is (almost invariably) a
way, and in this matter there should be a per-
sonal and individual as well as a general inter-
est. In order to satisfactorily accomplish any
scheme, one great object is to be in earnest; on
this earnestness depends much of the success of
whatever enterprise is undertaken. If you de-
termine to do anything of whatever name or
nature.first be sure it is the proper thing to do,
and then without losing time, bring your ener-
gies into immediate requisition and you are al-
most sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable of
carrying out President Young's counsel in this
matter; and if they do not they will be left
without excuse; he has called upon the breth-
ren until he has become wearied, and now he
appeals to the sisters. Is not this a proof of
his confidence in their desire to listen to coun-
sel? The sisters will have ample opportunity
now to prove their ability for financiering; and
it is greatly to be hoped that they will mani-
fest such earnestness in this matter as cannot
fail to accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the sisters,
that they enter into such arrangements as are
applicable to their circumstances in their var-
rious districts and settlements, to build store-
houses for the storing of their grain in the sec-
tions of country as they shall divide off or ap-
portion to certain localities; also that they so-
licit donations from their husbands and the
brethren to assist them in carrying out this en-
terprise, both for the building of the store-
houses and also in obtaining grain to fill them,
and preserve it for future need.

[Column 2]

	We sincerely hope that what has been said
will be sufficient to rouse a spirit of determin-
ation in the minds of the women of Utah, to
devise and to put in practice, such measures as
shall be economical and wise, and for the gen-
eral good of all concerned.


