BE A TRUE WOMAN.

	"Be a woman! On to duty!
		Raise the world from all that's low,
	Place high in the social heaven
		Virtue's fair and radiant bow.
	Lend thy influence to each effort
		That shall raise our nature human,
	Be not fashion's giddy lady—
		Be a brave, whole-souled, true woman."

	There is a vast amount spoken and written
in the present day about what women should
or should not do; advice in general terms is
given profusely. It is scarcely possible to lay
down rules for guidance in the education of
girls, especially their home-education, because
it must be modified by so many conditional or
controlling circumstances, that what would
be practicable for one, would not perhaps be
possible for others. Duty is the main point,
but duty is regulated by the different surround-
ings of a person, and the varied phases of
character. To be consistent one must take all
these perceptible differences into consideration.
Woman is active in her nature, and dreads
stagnation of any description, and if girls are
trained to habits of industry and regularity in
real work of some sort it will be a good pre-
ventive against "ennui," idleness and gos-
sip. There are many young women no doubt,
who scarcely take a thought of the time they
waste. They rebel against their fate as they
call it, and long for something fresh, some-
thing sensational, anything to break the mo-
notony of life. Therefore often in place of a
reality, they accept that which calls forth
only the emotional part of their nature, and
grasp the unreal believing it will prove the
"true alchemy," when all around them are
those resources out of which might be pro-
duced a growth of attainment in excellence
in some qualification or profession, which
would develop a corresponding happiness in
proportion to the enlargement of thought,
views and comprehension.
	After school days are over for girls, and more
particularly is this the case in large families
where there are many daughters, there is a
great need of care and watchfulness in the path
of action which should be chosen to walk in.
Young women hate to be looked upon as wait-
ing to be married, and hear the observation
made "so and so are in the market," as if they
were goods and chattels to be sold at auction;
they naturally shrink from those things and
it makes them sulk and become ill-tempered
to be considered out of place because they
don't marry. They want some systematic dis-
cipline in their life and pursuits, and to be en-
couraged in turning their mind and attention
to some worthy object, and that is safest which
presents itself most forcibly as the avocation

[Column 2]

likely to develop the best powers of woman-
hood.
	The girl at home is thus portrayed (and in-
deed the picture is not overdrawn) A little
note writing, a little vase-dressing, a little
practising (music), "a little reading, a little cro-
quet, a great deal of chatter, and, more than
all, much running in and out among near
neighbors, till the power of steady improve-
ment is frittered away and no progress is
made." There is an old Latin proverb, which
translated reads thus, "Friends are the thieves
of time," yet all love to have friends; what
would this life be without them; but this prov-
erb is true to a very great extent. Every per-
son can realize this in some degree. It is an
imperative duty to be conscientious in regard
to wasting the time of another, as well as
one's own. This is a point which seems to be
very little considered, but it is of such vital
importance that it cannot be too deeply im-
pressed upon the minds of the young.
	Let us return to our subject, marriageable
girls: not girls who want to marry but who are
just launched into womanhood and have no
fixed purpose in life, and long to find avocations
and an impetus for undeveloped capacities.
Young, beautiful, innocent, sensible, possessing
all those rare and exquisite traits which blend
so harmoniously in woman when cultivated to
a high degree, with all the expectation and
hope which belongs to that period of life,
knowing there is something expected of them,
but without positive force to step forward and
carve out any special purpose alone. Parents
and friends sometimes forget that these young
women are full of vigor, and must have scope
for action, and that once turned into some prop-
er channel, they could so discipline their own
minds and characters as to effect their whole
after life for good. They want some regular,
steady employment of genuine labor, else per-
chance they drift into habits of irregularity
and try to "kill time," perhaps just through
the want of proper advise and help from those
who do not fully realize how important is the
issue at stake. Every profession and avenue
of labor that opens for woman is a blessing;
there is no occasion for waiting girls, you have
no time to wait, there is to much real work to
be done for any hands to lay idle. Your mis-
sion upon this earth is of as much consequence
as that of your brother-man, and by all avail-
able means prepare yourselves physically, mor-
ally, mentally and spiritually for the great
battle of life, and the more real strength you
have time to gather for the conflict, the more
sure and steadfast will be your onward course,
and the better will you be prepared to lend as-
sistance to others. Learn adaptability to the
times, the places and the circumstances, wher-
ever your path of duty may be, and cultivate
application and endurance of purpose, and re-
member "he who builds a pyramid builds a
great thing, but he who builds a character, a
greater."
	E. B. Wells.


