WE WILL REPRESENT OURSELVES.

	In a letter published in the "Woman's
Journal," of Boston, the writer has made a
grievous mistake in representing the Mor-
mon ladies. She says "none but a few of
the ignorant sustain the doctrine of Plural
Marriage; the more intelligent class, and
especially the young ladies, would be glad
to see it abolished."
	As I have resided in S. L. City over twen-
ty years, and have been extensively ac-
quainted with all classes, I believe it is my
duty to correct such a mistake, when I see
it published to the world. I have conversed

[Column 2]

with a number of strangers, visiting the
city, who have expressed their surprise to
find so much intelligence among the women
who sustain this principle practically; the
writer of the letter to which I allude is in-
cluded among that number, and still retains
her husband's name, though so strongly
and widely proclaiming against the princi-
ple. These matrimonial alliances sanctioned
by the FIRST wife, prove that all parties
are involved in solving this wonderful
problem; which it would not take a Phila-
delphia lawyer more than six weeks to do,
provided theological evidence would be re-
ceived as testimony. And to those who
are infidel to the evidence of inspired writ-
ers we would say, we have the physiologi-
cal proofs to sustain our theory, and the
laws of nature, which should govern the
regeneration of man. And there are thou-
sands of noble, intelligent women in Utah,
who have received for themselves a knowl-
edge of the truth of the principles revealed
by Joseph Smith the martyred Prophet,
and they fear not to meet the opposition of
a frowning world, realizing that God is the
Author of revealed religion, and it is His
right to organize the plan by which the in-
habitants of the earth can be redeemed;
and He has manifested His power by in-
spiring men and women who have and will
carry out His plans at the sacrifice of all
EARTHLY honors.
	Our little EXPONENT, though in its in-
fancy, we are proud to say is the represent-
ative of truth, and is the Exponent of the
principles advocated by the Mormon wo-
men: and we recommend its moral teach-
ings and divine instructions to all who
read its pages, as truthful and elevating.	This reminds us of the thousands and
millions of dollars appropriated for the pub-
lication of literature that is worse than
nonsense, filling the minds of the rising
generation with fables and errors, that will
require years to eradicate. But this is in
keeping with the age in which we live.
The world of mankind has almost become a
swindle, and a counterfeit, politically and
religiously. As with the politician, so with
the priest—they all work for money, and
not for the interest of the people; confi-
dence is lost, and the light of truth, that
once beamed upon the patriots of former
days, is being withdrawn in consequence of
the wickedness and fraud that have been
practised upon a people who would delight
to honor their constitutional rights.
	Seeing we have digressed a little from
our subject, we will return by saying we
think it is much better to rspresent our-
selves; than to be MISREPRESENTED by oth-
ers, and we intend to let those ladies who
have been lecturing, and publishing books,
to misrepresent us to the world know, that
with the help of God in whom we trust, we
intend to represent ourselves, and leave
those in the hands of God who seek to
fight against Him. We know the wonder-
ful problem being solved by the Mormon
people is the greatest mystery of the pres-
ent age, but it only requires time to solve
itself. If it be of God who can fight against
it; it is He who has revealed it, and sus-
tained it; it was beyond the power of man
to do what has been already done, then why
fight against it? If it is not of God it will

[Column 3]

fall to the ground of itself—let it alone.
The Saviour said a good tree is known by
its fruits. My testimony is that for truth,
integrity and virtue the Mormon people
are not excelled by any people on the earth,
and we call upon honorable men and women
living among us, who are not of our faith,
to be our witnesses. If this is not true,
why are they here? If we are ignorant,
and practice degradation and crime, why
do our enemies come and make their homes
among us? There is a large amount of
room in the world, and we only occupy the
Great American Desert. I never knew a
people that honored their constitutional
rights more than the Mormons. If a Meth-
odist comes among us and shouts, no one
says why do you worship in that way. If
the Quaker comes and shakes, no true saint
asks, why do you shake? The Catholics
come and rear their lofty convent walls re-
quiring their converts to pay penance; the
Mormon goes to his own church, minds his
own business, does not even ask, why do
you pay penance to the Priest? For he has
already learned as much as the little boy
who asked his father who he paid penance
to? the father replied, "To the priest, my
son;" "But who does the priest go to?"
"To God," was the reply; "Well," said the
boy, "I will go to God, and keep my shill-
ing to buy me a Bible."
	W. E.
S. L. City, March 20, 1877.


