TO BEREAVED MOTHERS.

In Rama there was heard a voice of grief;
	Rachel bemoaned her sad and lonely lot;
Would not be comforted nor find relief,
	Her children slain, she wept that they were not.

A wailing voice is heard in Deseret,
	The babes are stricken and the mothers mourn;
Their hearts are pained, their cheeks and eyes are wet,
	For those who're not, which they have fondly borne.

Oh sisters! comfort ye! We've but to wait,
	Though for a season life seems reft of charms:
We know fair cherub forms at the bright gate,
	Will welcome us with loving, clinging arms.

We'll clasp them to our hearts to part no more,
	We'll find the same sweet lips and pure soft breath,
The same dear eyes God will in love restore,
	And in that Heavenly home there is no death.

We'll hear again their infant voices speak,
	In the glad silv’ry tones we loved so much,
And feel again on forehead, lip and cheek,
	Their kisses and their fingers' velvet touch.

How long oh Lord! how long! But hush poor heart!
	Thou would'st not question Him whose power sublime
Hath fashioned, formed and made thee what thou art!
	Thou must abide His will and wait His time.

And while you wait the noble lesson learn
	Of patience duly tried and perfect trust;
Though oft with hunger sore you wildly yearn,
	Remember still that God is wise and just.

Oh Gospel Light! most holy and serene!
	How shall they stand who know not thy fair truths!
How thy blest presence cheers death's solemn scene,
	How thy glad sounds the wounded spirit sooths!

How should we these strange trying tests endure,
	Had we no higher claim than words of men?
Did we not feel Our Father's promise sure,
	That we shall have our darlings back again.

Thank God we may confess His mighty hand
	In all the trials He directs us through,
Since He hath given us grace to understand
	His holy covenants, forever new!

Sublimest Faith! Most sacred gift of God!
	Shall they who know thee fail, or deem thee false?
Shall frail, weak woman sink beneath the rod,
	Which chastening, purifies, upholds, exalts?

What though we weep! God gave us tears to shed,
	When hearts o'er burdened burst from calm control;
The blessed Savior's heart was torn and bled,
	He wept and groaned in anguish of His soul.

In His dear name, for strength and grace we'll call,
	Nor deem the crosses we must bear too great:
The prize He offers is sufficient all—
	Oh comfort ye! my sisters—we can wait!

Let worldlings laugh our patient hopes to scorn,
	We'll not condemn; the Father judges best;
We own His power and while we truly mourn,
	Rejoice as truly in His promised rest.

Let me these humble, sacred tributes weave,
	O'er little ones so loved, so early gone!
It comforts mine, and other hearts that grieve,
	May gather courage as they struggle on.

	LULA.
Lula D. Richard


[Column 1]

