A SPECIFIC FOR SMALL-POX.

	Saltpetre was accidently discovered to be a
specific for this loathsome disease. It was in the
following manner:
	A middle-aged lady, the mother of six child-
ren, had often sought relief from pain in the back
by taking saltpetre and brandy. Small-pox was
prevailing in the vicinity. Mrs.——was expos-
ed to it, and contracted the disease. The premon-
itory symptoms were very violent—fever extremely
high—severe pain in the head, and excruciating
pain in the region of the kidneys.
	A physician was called during the night, but,
in doubt as to the nature of the disease, though
suspecting it to be a case of small-pox, he made
no prescription, promising to reaurn at early
dawn. Fever and pain increasing she begged her
husband to prepare for her the old preparation of
saltpetre and brandy. The latter was then not to
be had, but he crushed a piece of nitre as large as
a common white bean. This she took in a tea-
spoonful of cold water. Feeling some better the
dose was once or twice repeated. Pain soon sub-
sided and she slept well during the remainder of
the night and awakened feeling perfectly well!
When the doctor called he was greatly astonished
to see Mrs.——superintending the affairs of her
houshold. He left without making any pre-
scription. She had sixty well defined pustules in
her face; but they were but slightly inflamed and
not at all painful. The development of smallpox
on her entire person were in number and appear-
ance in keeping with those on her face.
	In due time all her children and her hnsband
were similarly affected by fever and pain in the
head and back, and received similar treatment
and the results were the same. Several families
caught the prevailing contagion, to whom——
told his story and recommended the same remedy,
and in every case the results were favorable.
	These facts came to us at first hand, and the
reader may rely upon them as exact statements
without embelishments or exaggeration. Here
were from ten to twelve cases all relieved from
pain and fever in less than an hour. The pustules
were speedily developed, but were more like the
disease in its convalescent stages than at any oth-
er period. As to the quantity given, it was not
at all definite, but the first patient, within an
hour, must have taken of nitre the bulk of three
ordinary white navy beans.
	We give these statements because we learn
from various sources that smallpox is unusually
prevalent. Physicians and cautious nurses would
do well to give nitre a fair and full trial. The


cases to which we refer were those of active labor-
ing people living in small tenements, and in the
winter season. It will be well to give the alleged
specific a fair trial. Physicians should do so and
report results.
	We cannot state from personal knowledge, but
we are under the impression that all these pa-
tients had been vaccinated in their youth.—Jour-
nal of Commerce.


MRS. Emma Malloy, of Indiana, has been
lecturing in Vermont. Mrs. Malloy is one
of those brave women who dares to speak
in unmeasured terms of hypocrisy and
pride in churches and among the religious
sects of the day. She is whole-souled in
the cause of Temperance. In one of her
lectures she quoted these words of Theodore
Cuyler—"Some people are more afraid of
soiling carpets than soiling the souls of
men.” 
	THE sweetest and most signal revenge to in-
flict upon enemies who seek to belittle our la-
bors or under-estimate our abilities, is to do
everything well, to lead irreproachable lives,
to earn popular confidence and respect, to es-
chew all but laudable undertakings, to succeed
in every act and labor. Success is the most ef-
fectual reproach to envy, malice, and unfriend-
liness.


[Column 1]
PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
