HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE RETURN thanks for the "Utah Musical
Bouquet," edited by Daynes & Son. We
watch with pleasurable interest all the im-
provements which tend to develop talent
among the people. We are gratified to see so
many home productions in songs and music.
The Temperance Song, "Pearly Water, Pure
As Snow," we conscientiously recommend as
suitable for day or Sunday Schools. Too
much cannot be done to influence the young
on the subject of Temperance.
	NOTICE: Mrs. H. Strickland has recently


opened a small store one door east of Mrs.
Sloan's establishment, Second South Street.
Mrs. Strickland has a variety of fancy notions
for sale; knits ladies and gent's hosiery, on the
Lamb machine, and also carries on dress-mak-
ing. She respectfully invites the patronage of
her friends, and all who are interested in home-
manufacture.
	ON SATURDAY morning, March 24, President
D. H. Wells and wife, with some other mem-
bers of his family, and Hon. George Q. Cannon
left this city for St. George. Bishop Edwin
D. Woolley, Bishop Samuel Woolley with some
others of their family, and Prof. O. H. Riggs,
also accompanied them making up quite a
a pleasant party, they will reach St. George
Tuesday next.
	WE LEARN by letter to the Deseret News
that the company that left Salt Lake City
Monday March 19, "enroute" for St. George
were enjoying themselves vastly by the way,
holding meetings in different places and meet-
ing with old friends and acquaintances. We
noticed the sisters were doing their part in ad-
dressing meetings and giving counsel to the
Relief Societies and organizations of women.
The meeting at Meadow Creek Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff and Mrs. Phebe Snow addressed the
sisters, and at Kanab, Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Mrs. Jane S. Richards.
	THE COLUMBIA Herald of March 21, pub-
lished in Columbia, Pa., contains an interest-
ing letter from Elder A. M. Musser of this
city, in which he contrasts the institutions of
this people, religious, social and educational,
with those existing in the world. He relates
in brief the condition in which the saints
found this country, and the drivings and mob-
violence which had been the cause of the exit
of the Latter-day Saints from the borders of
civilization. Elder Musser is publishing a
pamphlet there on the belief of this people con-
taining a defense of Polygamy.


