					CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.

		CLIFTON, IDAHO, March 11th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from this little settle-
ment would be expected, I proceed to let you
know how we get along. The sisters meet
twice a month and we enjoy a goodly portion
of the spirit of God in our meetings. Some of
the sisters as well as the brethren have renew-
ed their covenants, and all appear to be awak-
ening to a sense of their duties. We had a
visit from Bro. Hardy of Salt Lake City, and
we all enjoyed ouselves, and his instructions
have been duly appreciated by the brethren,
from the spirit manifested by them. Our Sab-
bath School and Sabbath meetings are well
attended.
	We have a Retrenchment Society organized
in which the young girls are very much inter-
ested. We called a meeting on the 1st of Feb.
to consider the Grain Movement. It was an
excellent meeting, thirteen sisters joined our
society and we number now over thirty mem-
bers. We have about thirty bushels of wheat
now in the bin and the prospect of some
more.
The EXPONENT is received and duly appre-
ciated by the sisters. We look forward with
pleasant anticipation for a visit from some of
the sisters from Salt Lake City.
				Your Sister, etc.
						JANE M. HOWELL.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	I hope that in writing these few lines, I may
at least be able to do myself some good, and
that it may tend to develop my own mind. I
think it is a great and eventful day in which
we live; many great things are transpiring
among the nations, and we can realize that
the "signs of the times," are manifest; this
shows me the necessity of living more faithful
before the Lord, and it leaves no time to idle

[Column 2]
away, but to be watchful and prayerful every
hour of our lives and be ready and willing at
all times to discharge to the best of our ability
every duty resting upon us to perform in this
kingdom, and I think one of the greatest du-
ties resting upon us as a band of sisters, is the
saving of our GRAIN and storing it away for a
day of need, and what a great privilege this is
granted us to bring together our small means
thus, to save ourselves and those who shall
flock to us for assistance in a day of need!
What great blessings are conferred upon us,
and still the world call us "the down trodden
women of Utah." I feel thankful to my
Heavenly Father that I live in this glorious
day, and that I have a standing in this king-
dom, and that the Lord through His priest-
hood upon the earth, thus forwarnes us of the
judgments that He is about to pour our upon
the earth. I think we are slow to hearken to
His voice. I desire to take hold with renewed
energy, of the duties resting upon me, and im-
prove the golden opportunities that are grant-
ed me for acquiring knowledge, for I know
there is a great work to be performed; and the
Lord has said that in the last days "He will
cut His work short in righteousness."
	We are desirous to be co-workers with the
brethren, and may we be true aids in the good
cause of advancing this kingdom, is my s[-]n-
cere wish for us all.
				CHRISTINE M. WARNICK.
	Pleasant Grove, March 13, 1877.

