EXECUTIVENESS.
	There is a marvellous difference among
individuals with respect to their accom-
plishing work. Some pass a lifetime in do-
ing what amounts to nothing. They seem
born to 'putter,' to waste themselves on
trifling, weak, useless tasks; mere human
lichens are they, parasites, chips on the cur-
rent of life, drifting aimlessly. Others have
every day something to show for their
time:
	"Something accomplished, something done,
	Hath earned a night's repose."
These possess a purpose and energy, a strong
will, a clear perception, and often an active
imagination; all of which combined, render
them motors in society. Though a great
deal depends on original endowment, a
great deal also depends on training. Child-
ren who are brought up to do nothing, gen-
erally do nothing. Those who are trained
from infancy in all ways of self-help and
helpfulness to others, have the ability to
help themselves and help others. "To him
that hath shall be given." Lord Bacon says:
"There is no stand or impediment in the
wit but may be wrought out by fit studies.
If a man's wit be wandering, let him study
mathematics; for in demonstrations, if his
wit be called away never so little, he must
begin again; so every defect of mind may
have a special receipt." This last asser-
tion is as true in matters pertaining to char-
acter as in those intellectual. The purpose-
less individual may, if he will, change him-
self in this particular, by setting himself
tasks to perform, and steadily performing
them. This may be found at first laborious;

[Column 2]

and even painful; but habit renders all
things easy.
	This setting one's self tasks, however,
does not as surely develop one's powers as
having these tasks set by some one else;
and of all taskmasters, stern necessity has
the most to show for his pupils on exami-
nation day. Let no one who loves himself
repine at the commands of this stern task-
master; his mission is most beneficient.
From what rough and crude material does
he often fashion noble, accomplished, and
beneficient men and women! This he does
by laying heavy burdens on them, by sub-
jecting them to hard and cruel blows from
the hand of fortune, by compelling them to
make brick without straw, by forcing
them to develop every resource of their
power, and often every capability they pos-
sess for doing and suffering.
	It is useless for one without a definite
purpose or plan to dream of accomplishing
much. Few indeed are they upon whom
this greatness is thrust. The doers in this
life are those who intend to do; all others
are cumberers of the ground—thistles,
weeds, unfruitful figtrees destined to per-
ish. It is a very easy matter to spend day
after day and week after week in merely
going through the forms of doing, and at
the end of this lime have actually nothing
accomplished. The butterfly doubtless vis-
its as many flowers as the bee, the grass-
hopper goes over as much ground as the
ant, but how different the showings in the
two contrasted cases. A purpose animates
the bee and the ant; one moves in a "bee
line" to the accomplishment of her pur-
pose, the other works with such persistent
industry that for 3,000 years at least the ant
has been an example known and read of by
as many as have studied her ways.
	A great deal of the time of even purpose-
ful men and women is wasted for want of a
well digested plan of action. The execu-
tive individual has a pretty clear idea, first
of exactly what he wishes to accomplish,
and secondly of the manner in which
he intends to work. He does not blunder
into a thing and blunder on all the way
through it. He may not see what his last
step will be, but he sees quite clearly what
his first step must be, and then the second,
and, as he progresses, the end becomes
clear. He does not allow himself to be di-
verted or detained from his work by slight
causes, petty hindrances, trivial interrup-
tions. If one stops to follow all the little
side-paths that lead off from the main thor-
ough-fare from Joppa to Jerusalem he will
be a long time in reaching that ancient cap-
ital. The way to secure main issues is to
neglect all smaller ones that have not a di-
rect bearing on the success aimed at.—A
woman writer in the New York Tribune.—


