HINTS TO WRITERS AND SPEAKERS.

	William Cullen Bryant gave the follow-
ing excellent advice to a young man who
offered him an article for the "Evening
Post:"
	My young friend, I observe that you
have used several French expressions in
your article. I think if you will study the
English language, that you will find it cap-
able of expressing all the ideas you may
have.
	I have always found it so, and in all that
I have written, I do not recall an instance
where I was tempted to use a foreign word,
but that on searching I found a better one
in my own language.
	Be simple, unaffected; be honest in your
speaking and writing. Never use a long


word when a short one will do. Call a
spade, a spade, not a well-known oblong in-
strument of manual industry; let a home
be a home, and not a residance; a place a
place, and not a locality; and so with the
rest. Where a short word will do, you lose
by using a long one. You lose in clearness;
you lose in honest expression of meaning,
and in the estimation of all men who are
competent to judge, you lose in reputation
for ability.
	The only way to shine, even in this false
world, is to be modest and unassuming.
Falsehood may be a very thick crust, but in
the course of time it will find a place to
break through. Elegance of language may
not be in the power of all of us, but sim-
plicity and straightforwardness are.
	Write much as you would speak; speak
as you think. If with your inferior, speak no
coarser than usual; if with your superior,
speak no finer. Be what you say, and within
the rules of prudence. No one was ever a
gainer by singularity of words or in pronun-
ciation. The truly wise man will speak
that no one will observe how he speaks. A
man may show a great knowledge of chem-
istry by carrying about bladders of strange
gases to breathe, but he will enjoy better
health, and find more time for business,
who lives on common air.
	Sidney Smith once remarked: After you
have written an article, take your pen and
strike out half the words, and you will be
surprised to find how much stronger it is.


