ITEMS ON DRESS.

	I wish to address a few friendly words to
you my dear friends and sisters, and have
chosen this subject, and hope I shall give
no offence but merely express a few ideas
that were prominently brought to my mind
lately. I had a few words written and in-
tended to send them to you, but on reading
them to President Young, he opened to my
mind such a halo of light and revelation on
this subject that I could not be satisfied with
what I had written. I only wish you my
dear readers, could have been with me and
heard and seen the plainness and beauty of
the principles opened to my view. It is
undoubtedly the case that this waste of
dress is not countenanced by those whom the
Lord has placed to lead Israel We are all
human enough to enquire the reason of this.
President Young answered this question in
language which I am unable to use. In this
life we are really in possession of but one
thing. Money, houses, lands, all, all are
left behind when we go hence; and even
while here, with all our efforts and exer-
tions to keep them, with a breath they are
gone. How true the old saying, "riches
take wings." So that all that remains to us
is our TIME. This no one can rob us of;
but I am inclined to say we very often al-
low ourselves to be cheated into casting it
aside as a worthless toy. Consequently
when we spend our valuable time in mak-
ing up clothing which is elaborately trim-
med, we both waste our time and those
means which should be devoted to sending
for the poor, and in other charitable pur-
poses. Right here some one says, "Oh yes!
but Miss or Mrs. So and So have renewed
their covenants and received the ordinan-
ces of the Lord's house and other blessings,
and they dress extravagantly and wear all
the ruffles they choose. What if they do?
Because Judas betrayed Christ does it fol-
low that all the Apostles were to turn trait-
ors and forsake their God? Apply the si-
mile here. Shall we encourage a love of
dress because others do so? Most certain-
ly not. It is useless to tell a lady that gen-
tlemen prefer to see ladies dressed plainly
and neatly. They don't care a fig, they
will answer you; they dress to please them-
selves." Which translated means that
they dress to be like each other and to fol-
low the fashions of a wicked, foolish world.
But I honestly believe that if you can con-


vince a Mormon, woman's reason, that it is
wroug to put trimmings on her clothes or
dress elaborately, she will cease to do so. It
is only the result of thoughtlessness; they
do not stop to consider the matter, but go
blindly on, following in the lead of those
perhaps, who should know better, and set
a better example.
	Do you think sisters you would like to
associate with angels with these trappings
on? I suppose that you have all been prom-
ised that you should one day meet with
them, and sooner or later we must put a
stop to this folly. So let us do so now, and
be prepared to advance one step further in
the grand march to meet our Savior; if we
do, we will be thus binding Satan out of
our hearts, for this folly of dress surely
originates from him. Let us do this, and
not pass over this matter so lightly, for if
we do, we will some day be called to ac-
count for it.
	Yours with love,
		S. Y. D.


