	MORRELL, SUMMIT Co., March 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reply to your kind request to hear
from our Relief Society we herewith send
you a statement of our financial condition,
March 15, 1877.
	Am't received and made,......... $60 85
"       Disbursed..................................   16 70
"       On hand.....................................   44 15
	Our society was organized Sept. 1874,
with the following officers, Jane E. Lemon,
President; Christine Larsen and Julia
Woolstenhulme, Counselors; Jane Keeler,
Secretary; Jane E. Lemon, Treasurer; and
twenty members. We meet twice a month
and enjoy each other's society and counsel,
and feel benefitted thereby. We read the
EXPONENT with great interest and are
pleased to learn through its columns that
the mothers in Zion are awake to a sense of
their duties and are storing up the precious
grain, for we know it will be our salvation
in years to come. We ahve considered the
Grain Movement in our meetings, and
would like to give our mite to help forward
in this great work, but the frost destroyed
our grain. This being a newly settled place

[Column 3]
we have not the means at present, to go
elsewhere to purchase grain, but hope for
better times soon.
	The sisters of our society conceived the
idea of having a party and managing the
affair themselves. We decorated our school
house nicely with pictures and flowers, a
few of our sisters understand making arti-
ficial flowers and made an abundance of
them, which gave to the room an elegant
appearance. At two o'clock in the afternoon
President Mrs. J. E. Lemon opened the
dance by prayer. Mrs. Jane Keeler was
Manager, and at ten o'clock Counselor C.
Larsen dismissed. We maintain the idea
that woman's influence will not be lessened
but increased by her taking a more active
part in recreations and social enjoyments.
	In Sept. last we received a flying visit
from sisters' E. S. Barney and E. Howard.
They gave us good advice and we desire to
carry out their teachings to the best of our
ability.
		Respectfully yours,
			JANE E. LEMON, Pres't.
