	SMITHFIELD; CACHE CO.,
		March 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have often felt a desire to bear my tes-
timony to the truth of this work, through
your columns. I know this is the only true
church upon the earth. This is the stone
that Daniel saw cut out of the mountain
without hands, and kept rolling until it
filled the whole earth. So this work is roll-
ing on, and will continue to roll and crush
everything that comes in contact with it.
	We are a blessed people above all people
upon the face of the earth; we are in the
midst of the light, therefore we cannot see
its brightness. I sometimes think we don't
appreciate our blessings and privileges as
we ought. I have taken great interest in
reading the reports of the different settle-
ments on the Grain Movement; it seems all
have partaken of the right spirit—that is,
obedience to the word of the Lord through
His servant. The sisters here are not be-
hind in that great work; we have laid a
foundation, having a goodly quantity of
grain in store this year, and we will con-
tinue from year to year, until it will be
said it is enough. We are laying the foun-
dation of a great work, and out of small
things proceedeth that which is great. The
Lord requireth the heart and a willing
mind; and the willing and obedient shall
eat the good of the land of Zion in these
last days.
	Our beloved President of the Relief So-
ciety, Mrs. Morehead, is always on the
watch tower, ready to help the poor and
needy, to comfort the sick and strengthen
the weak, and render assistance wherever
it is needed.
	We have been afflicted with sickness this
winter and had to part with many of our
dear little ones, but we are not without
hope, they are ours still if we will live
faithful to the principles of life and salva-
tion, so that we shall receive our children
again; our treasure is in heaven, let our
hearts be there also. Truly this is a day of
rejoicing—a temple is built to the Most
High—an Ensign to the people, where they
will flock like doves to the windows. Let
us continue building temples, and devote
our time and interest to the building up of
the kingdom of God upon the earth, re-
trenching from every foolish fashion and
habit. Let our garments be the workman-
ship of our own hands. May the blessings of
God attend all our efforts to do good is my
prayer.
