GOOD MANNERS.

	I have long been impressed with the im-
portance of the subject named above, both
in public and private life; Scripture enjoins
us to be courteous, and to be given to hos-
pitality, and the Savior himself, was a pat-
tern of gentleness, tenderness and consider-
ation towards those He associated with.
All these are principles upon which good
manners should be based; there is no doubt
the heart and intentions are sometimes
very good, when the manners are repulsive
and uncouth, and as the MASSE do not look
beyond the surface, such persons cannot feel
an injury is done to them, if they are judged
unjustly. We should allow the warm feel-
ings of the heart to expand beyond our-
selves, if we desire to be beloved and re-
spected. Good manners are a letter of in-
troduction at first sight, and the coldest
heart must be thawed by a kind and ur-
bane salutation or welcome. Lamartine, a
good and beautiful French writer says "The
Gospel is democratic, and Christianity re-
publican;" and the royal law of the same is
"Do as you would be done by;" all of which
implies the law of kindness, of course in-
cluding good manners. True politeness
springs from the heart, and requires often
a sacrifice of our own comforts, and conve-
niences. Where the spirit is loving, hum-
ble and teachable, there we find the mate-
rial from which good manners are formed;
true it is that "trifles make the sum of hu-
man things," yet the happiness of our
every day life, is made up of such minute
particles that they must be felt rather than
made palpable by language.
	I might give the routine of Educational
politene s, and would uphold such as far as
it is good; but the Home circle should be
the centre of our good manners; to our par-
ents, to our brothers and sisters, and to our
husbands let our good manners be ever ap-
parent. My sisters the grand secret is to
cultivate the heart, and the affections, not
to let the energies stagnate, and the heart
to grow cold; then the manners will
be colored accordingly and we will not see
apathy and frigidity taking the place of
more genuine qualities in ourselves, and
others. Friendship would then spring up
where now it is rarely found, and add an-
other blessing to the many by which we are
surrounded. Let us then bear in mind my
young sisters, the importance of cultivat-
ing our hearts and minds, that in all things
we may be worthy the name of saints of
the Most High; and our manners be the


INDEX of that moral and intellectual train-
ing which is necessary to maintain a per-
fect equilibrium in the balance of high in-
tellectual attainments, and advantages,
which are around the Saints of Latter-days,
that by every means, however small, we
may be assisting to bring about the time
when a people shall be prepared for the Sec-
ond coming of our Lord, and in whom God
the Father will delight to be all in all.
