	PARIS, ONEIDA Co., Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought a few lines from this place
might be acceptable to the many readers of
your excellent paper. The Lord has seen
fit to favor the inhabitants of Bear Lake
valley with a mild winter, for which we
feel truly thankful. The little snow we
have had (which would not exceed one foot)
has mostly disappeared.
	The saints as a general thing feel well;
we have very many meetings and they are
well attended; very few parties and thea-
tres. I never knew a time when the inter-
est of the young and rising generation was
so much at heart and sought after by our


President and Bishop and those whose right
it is to look after and preside over this
stake of Zion, as at the present time. They
are ever ready with their timely advice
and counsel to young and old. We have
good week-day and Sabbath schools which
are well attended. Our Relief and Re-
trenchment meetings are excellent, Pres't.
Rich often meets with us. We have made
an effort to purchase grain, but are sorry to
say that it is but a feeble one compared
with some of the accounts we see in the
EXPONENT. Our crops last year were most-
ly cut off by the frost and it is rather a
hard matter to lay up grain where there is
none: but we mean to "try, try again," and
my faith is that "where there's a will
there's a way."
	There has been some sickness during the
winter, mostly among the children not
many deaths have occurred however, except
in Montpelier where a number of children
have died from a disease, resembling in
some respects Diphtheria. I do not consider
it incurable when taken in time. Many
people let diseases run too long without
treatment, leaving nature to perform a task
by far superior to her strength.
	Your valuable paper is read with interest
by many of the sisters and brethren too,
and for its welfare and advancement you
have our best wishes.	EMELINE RICH.


MALAD CITY, March 10, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	As we have lately held our annual meet-
ing at this place, it may not be amiss if you
have space, to publish our report, &c., for
the year ending, Jun. 31st, 1877. We have
one hundred and sixteen members.
	Amounts collected............... $209.00
	Disbursed for different charita-
	able purposes..........——.....	102.00
	Amount on hand.................	107.00
							———
			Total....................	209.00
	The members, with but very few excep-
tions, attend their meetings regularly, and
perform other duties connected with our
holy calling. We can truly say that our
Society is in a flourishing condition; we
are trying to assist our brethren who are
called to labor in the ministry, to establish
truth and righteousness in this part of the
Lord's vineyard. Although we have con-
siderable opposition here, as the wicked are
laboring hard for the supremacy, our motto
is onward, the Lord being our helper, until
all the enemies of truth are subdued.
	We desire also to be one with our sisters
in the different settlements of Utah, to fol-
low out the counsels of our beloved Presi-
dent, Brigham Young, with regard to pur-
chasing and storing grain. Our worthy
Bishop Daniels has been kind enough to
proffer us room in his granary to store up
our wheat. A committee of four has been
appointed to do the buying, and they are
busy in the work. With the help of our
brethren, who are always ready and willing
to assist us, we mean to gather in all we
can this season, and have it secured for a
day of want.
	We hold our meetings once in two weeks
and they are well attended. We have
great cause to feel well, as everything seems
conducive to our happiness; no sign of sick-
ness: prosperity and plenty seem to abound
in all the habitations of the Latter-day
Saints in this beautiful valley. The snow
is all gone; farming and gardening have
commenced; the prospects are favorable for
a good crop this season. We have been
called upon by our bishop to do what we


can towards building the temple. We al-
ways desire to be co-workers with our breth-
ren and to respond to their calls. We have
made up a subscription list of $400.00 for
1877. Hoping that our lives may be spared
to see a temple to the Lord finished in Salt
Lake City. We feel that we have been
highly honored in being selected out from
amongst this wicked and perverse genera-
tion, to help bring about the purposes of
the Almighty in this last dispensation of
the fulness of times.
	We also consider that our responsibilities
are very great indeed, as mothers and
daughters in Israel; and our duties are
many in directing the minds of the young
in the ways of the Lord. May we all of us
at all times strive to teach and practice cor-
rect principles; may we all enjoy a greater
portion of the Spirit of the Lord, which
will yield us happiness in this world, and
salvation in the world to come, is our earn-
est desire.
	JANE PRICE, President,
	ANN DANIELS,
	ESTHER LUSK,		Couselors,
	CATHERINE DAVIS,	Secretary.


