service to Peace. This should be an aid in
securing the attention of clergymen through-
out the country to the subject.
	Second: The aid of the Press is again in-
voked. It is hoped that local committees
on press will be organized in hundreds of
communities—that these committees will
put themselves into such relation with the
local press that the public mind may be
prepared for the special service on October
2nd and for the Demonstration on October
8th.
	Third: As the Thirteenth International
Peace Congress will occupy the first week
in October, it seems wise to avail ourselves
of the impetus to interest which must be
given by it, and to convene the Demon-
stration on Saturday, October 8th. The
hour for the meeting is not specified, since
every committee in making its arrange-
ments should be left free to consult local
tastes and local conditions. All members
of this committee and all members of sub-
committees charged with the arrangement
of programs are asked to see to it that
speakers and other participants are chosen
in about equal numbers from both political
parties and from various religious faiths,
since to be most successful the movement
must be in form what it certainly is in
spirit, entirely non-partisan and non-sectar-
an.
	Fourth: As in former Demonstrations re-
solutions of sympathy with women in other
countries will be submitted, and also in
order to test the feeling of the country and
to ascertain to what degree the attitude of
the International Council in Berlin is sup-
ported by public favor, votes of support will
be asked for the four propositions unanim-
ously voted at Berlin which in substance
were as follows—
	(a) The Council undertakes to continue
its scheme of popular education upon this
subject by preparing a bibliography in the
three official languages of the International
Council viz:—(English, French and Ger-
man) which shall include the best brief
presentations and appeals. These it will
undertake to distribute widely in all of the
countries belonging to the Council.
	(b) The Council asks each affiliated Nat-
onal Council to organize a committee of in-
vestigation whose business it shall be to
make a careful inspection of the histories
that are now being taught in the common 
schools of their respective lands. It is be-

[Column 2]
lieved by those introducing this proposi-
tion that it will be found that in many re-
spects these histories are calculated to fill
the minds of students with vanity, arro-
gance and prejudice. The object in making
such an inspection is to secure books which
will instil nobler ideas of patriotism and
which will reduce military achievment to
its proper place and give to the achievments
of Science, Art, and Industry their rightful
recognition.
	(c) It is desired that the Peace Tri-color
of royal purple, white and golden yellow
which was adopted by the Council as its
emblem shall be used at all meetings held
in connection with this Demonstration.
	It is hoped that the distinguished work-
ers for Peace from foreign countries who
will come over to the Thirteenth Interna-
tional Congress will remain in this country,
and that their services will be secured in
many places for independent Peace Meet-
ings. For information and for literature
concerning the Congress, and also concern-
ing foreign delegates who are to attend it
application may be made to Mr. Benjamin
F. Trueblood, the Secretary of the Commit-
tee of Organization 31 Beacon, St. Boston,
Mass.
	Bespeaking the earnest help of all whose
eyes may fall upon this public letter, hop-
ing that the Demonstration held under
such favorable auspices as must almost
necessarily be secured bv its being coincid-
ent with the close of the Boston Congress,
will surpass all preceding Demonstrations,
and thanking all of my co-workers in ad-
vance for the aid which they will lend to
this end, I have the honor to subscribe my-
self,
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Chairman of Committee on Peace and
Arbitration for the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States.
	August 15, 1904. Indianapolis, Ind.


