peace. It is a matter of rejoicing that so
much is being done this present year, and
though the results may not be apparent in
fact, yet the growth of sentiment will be
spreading and the light that has come into
the world permeating the darkness will
grow brighter and brighter, and the con-
tact of peoples one with the other through
better facilities of travel will ultimately
bring all nations to a better understanding
of correct methods, and the Golden rule ap-
plied to all the relations of life and all the
governments of the world, will help bring
about the time when there shall be no more
war nor slaying of any living thing.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the St. Joseph
Stake was held in the Layton meeting
house, June 11th, 1904. First Counselor
Salina Phillips conducting the meeting.

[Column 2]
Our conference was out of the usual in that
we met on Saturday in connection with
the Stake Quarterly Conference. By the
kindness of the presiding brethren we oc- 
cupied the whole day.
	President Elizabeth Layton reported that
all the ward organizations of the Relief So-
ciety had been visited by members of the
Stake Board since our last conference.
Found them all in good condition with an
increase of attendance. Said Relief Society
work brings out and develops the very
best qualities in human nature.
	All the wards were reported by their res-
pective presidents with the exception of St.
David, Matthews and Hubbard.
	The following subjects were talked on by
Sarah Webb, Olive Kimball, Fanny Kim-
ball and Emma Coleman: Reverence, nurs-
ing, obedience and child’s rights.
	The speakers were President Andrew
Kimball, C. M. Layton and W. D. John-
son, who emphasized the importance of re-
ducing to practice the good things we hear.
Advised parents to keep their children
children as long as possible, instead of try-
ing to push them ahead. Find employment
for them, keep them at home, especially at
night. Relief Society members are among
the best members in the Church. Keep
your bodies clean. Be cleanly in your 
homes, and the Lord will bless you.
	Patriarch Philemon Merrill dwelt upon
the prophecies of Joseph and Hyrum Smith
and the fulfillment of the same. 
	The day’s exercises were interspersed
with songs and recitations, which in all
was a very profitable and pleasing time.
		SARAH WEBB,
			Corresponding Secretary.

