			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine Stake was held at Linden,
July 16, 1904. There were present from
Salt Lake City, President Bathsheba W.
Smith, and General Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells. The brethren of the stake presi-
dency were in attendance, also the stake
board and representatives from thirteen of
the fourteen branches of the stake, Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding. Meet-
ing commenced at ten a. m. with singing,
prayer and usual opening exercises.
	President Standring welcomed all and
was pleased to see so goodly a number
present; was thankful to see our beloved
president, Bathsheba W. Smith, with us,
she had labored long and faithfully, and we
should be pleased to have instruction from
her.
	Reports were given by Orpha Robinson,
American Fork first ward; Sarah S. Chip-
man, American Fork second ward: Mary E.
Abel, American Fork third ward; Minnie 
Webb, American Fork fourth ward; Marion
Anderson; Lehi first ward; Armitta Clark,
Lehi second ward. Each reported her so-
ciety fully organized and all taking their
part cheerfully. Officers and members
are united and doing all they can for the
furtherance of the work.
	President B. W. Smith had been very
much interested in hearing the reports, had
worked in the Relief Society ever since the
days of Nauvoo, was present at the first or-
ganization and is the only one living who
was there at that time; heard the Prophet
Joseph say that after that time when he
had anything to give he should give it
through the Relief Society. He also said


[Column 1]
that the Church was not fully organized un-
til the Temple should be built. The branches
of this society are all doing a great work
and are pressing forward. They are called
upon to visit the sick and the poor. Felt
well to be here today and felt to bless the
Relief Society, and hoped we would live
our religion and not forget our duties.
	General Secretary E. B. Wells was the
next speaker. Was delighted to be here
and was interested in Relief Society work.
The Relief Society is first next to the
Church organization, but it is an auxiliary.
The Prophet Joseph was the one who or-
ganized this society, and Sister Smith has
worked in the society over sixty-two years.
Thought it was too bad to leave the older
sisters to do all the work, the young wo-
men, even the girls, can easily be enrolled,
and can help with the work. This society
extends all over the world, the sun never
sets on the Relief Society. We have thirty-
three thousand members. Sister Wells
knew that Sister Standring was the right
woman to be president, and felt that the
congregation was a credit to our beloved
president, Sister Smith. The Relief Soci-
ety own sheep, cattle, buildings, wheat and
money to buy more wheat. Deplored the
fact that we have not sufficient granaries to
hold our wheat. Mothers’ work should
not take first place, because we must have
testimonies, for without testimony the work
would die out. Mothers’ work is secondary,
said if you will bear testimony whenever
you have an opportunity, you will never
apostatize.
	President James H. Clark sald there had
been a good influence here today. The
Doctrine and Covenants has a passage that
instructs the people to be self-supporting.
These valleys and hills have poured out
their wealth for us, and yet much of what
we use is imported. His attention had been
called to the subject of silk ralsing. Presi-
dent Young had recommended this and
other home industries. Referred to his sis-
ter, Mrs. Annie S. Chipman, who had raised
fifty dollars worth of silk, and it was all ac-
complished in six weeks. Believed that
the time was at hand when this industry
would be taken up and become general
among us. This amount of silk can be
produced from ten trees, which may be
raised on the ditch bank. Spoke also of
other home industries. Referred to the un-
tiring labors of President B. W. Smith, her
endurance as a pioneer, and her long con-
tinued work in the Temple.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-
ing, prayer, etc. Reports were given by
Julia Brown, Lehi fourth ward; Loulsa
Halliday, Pleasant Grove; Cordelia Thorne,
Linden; Sarah Atwood, Manila; and Mar-
garet Bennett, Cedar Fort. All reported
their wards in good condition. Unity and
love exist, they are laying up grain and
nearly all have good granaries, and take
pleasure in looking after the poor and
needy.
	President Standring had been pleased to
hear the reports. Some arrange their
work so as to be able to attend meetings,
while others donate to the society and
never come to meeting; wondered which
would get the best reward. Felt very
grateful to the sisters of Linden for their
hospitality and kindness to us today. It
had been the desire of her heart for many
years to see the advancement of silk cul-
ture, and believed that in the near future
some brother would have a mission to start
this industry and the sisters would fall in

[Column 2]
cheerfully and raise silk in such quantity
that all may wear it.
	President Smith hoped the sisters would
take hold of silk raising and make it a suc-
cess. Continued by saying this organiza-
tion would grow and increase, and never
die out. Read from the minutes of the first
teachings of the Prophet Joseph. The signs
should follow the believer and if the sis-
ters have faith enough to heal the sick, let
all others hold their tongues. We must
act in concert or nothing can be done,
etc. Sister Smith desired to hear all testi-
fy of the Prophet Joseph. Prayed for a
blessing on all assembled.
	Song, Martha Keetch “The Holy City.”
	Brother Chas. J. Thomas, of Salt Lake
City, made a few remarks in regard to as-
sisting the poor. They should not be treat-
ed as paupers, but aided and assistedas the
Lord’s poor, in sympathy and kindness.
	President Stephen S. Chipman re-
joiced with the sisters in the visit of our
sisters from Salt Lake. We have so many
workers now, that there is no necessity of
putting too much on one person, the labor
can be properly divided and all do his share.
Had rejoiced in the spirit manifested today.
Thought it would be hard to get as many
brethren together with as good results.
Desired to endorse the remarks of President
Clarke on the subject of home industries.
The Lord has blest us and blessed be the
name of the Lord. Prayed for a blessing
on our leading sisters and all who have at-
tended today.
	Sister E. B. Wells rejoiced greatly in the
gathering today and that the sisters had
had an opportunity of hearing our beloved
president, Bathsheba W. Smith. Spoke of
the silk industry and the necessity of fol-
lowing it up, also gave a report of the
efforts that were made in years gone by,
and the silk that was manufactured and the
handsome curtains made from the silk
raised here at home, for the World’s Fair
in Chicago. “We are going to have a
Woman’s Building, and we shall want
handsome curtains for that, but we cannot
have them unless we raise the silk.” Spoke
of the necessity of sending nurses to the
nurse class. How much would we have
known but for the Relief Society; had seen
women chosen for positions when she won-
dered what they could do, and had ob-
served a wonderful development in those
persons. Bore testimony of the Prophet
Joseph as a great prophet and a great leader.
	President A. J. Evans had been delighted
today, and felt to say “God bless these
mothers in Israel. Teach your daughters
that there is no principle so important as
the law given to our first parents, to multi-
ply and replenish the earth. May God
bless the sisters who love this work. Bore
testimony to the Prophet Joseph Smith and
his divine mission.
	An anthem was sung by the Linden
choir. Closing prayer by President Abel
J. Evans. Conference adjourned for three
months.
