ANNUAL MEETING D. R.
	The annual meeting of the Utah State
Society daughters of the Revolution was
held on Friday, June 10, 1904, at 10:30 in
room 509 Templeton Building, Salt Lake
City, Regent Isabel M. Whitney Sears pre-
siding, a majority of members present.
After prayer, the secretary, Mrs. Lucy
Woodruff Smith, read the minutes of the
May meeting and the last annual meeting,
June 10, 1903. The minutes of both meet-
ings were approved.
	A letter was read from the General Soci-
ety D. R. acknowledging the ten dollars
given by the Utah Society towards the tes-
timonial tendered to Miss Adeline W. Ster-
ling, the retiring Pre[-]ident General. Letter
was read from Mrs. Julia P.M. Farnsworth,
Chaplain, who was absent in Beaver at the
time, expressing her good wishes, and re-
gret at being away on so important an oc-
casion.
	Reports were then given by the officers
who had served during the past year. The
Regent, Mrs. I. M. W. Sears, referred to
the report made by her to the General So-
ciety, and expressed briefly her great pleas-
ure in the year’s work, thanking the mem-
bers for their support. Reports were given
by First Vice-Regent, Mrs. Phebe Young
Beatie, and S cond Vice-Regent, Mrs. Myra
Young Rossiter, Rec Sec’y, Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith, Cor. Sec’y, Mrs. Florence S. Sears,
Treasurer, Mrs. Elizabeth R. Wright, Reg-
istrar, Mrs. Maria Young Dougall, and
Historian, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	It was moved by Mrs. Annie L. King,
seconded by Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, that all
the reports be accepted with thanks—car-
ried. It was moved by Mrs. Beatie and
seconded by several that a full report of the
meeting, including the Regent’s report,
to the General Society, be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT—carried.
	Regent announced that the next business
would be the election of officers for the en-
suing year. The following members were
elected, nominations from the floor:
	Regent, Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie; First
Vice-Regent, Mrs Mary E. R. Webber;
Second Vice-Regent, Mrs. Annie Louise L.
King; Rec. Sec’y, Mrs. Clarissa Y. Spencer;
Asst. Sec’y, Mrs. Carol Y. Cannon; Cor.
Sec’y, Mrs. I. M. W. Sears; Treas., Mrs. Ella
W. Hyde; Registrar, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall;
Historian, Mrs. E. B. Wells; Chaplain,
Mrs. Lucy W. Smith.
	Vacancies in the Council will be filled by
appointment of the Regent later. Annual
meeting closed with prayer and adjourned
to June 10, 1904.	E. B- W.


The Duke of Norfolk’s carelessness of
rank and homely manner make it almost
impossible to think of him as a duke.
There is probably some truth in the stories
which have their origin in his disregard of
dress. The Duke was going to Stonyhurst
College for Speech day, and a carriage met
him at the railway station, Two tall and
well-dressed gentlemen preceded him, and
as they reached the carriage an official
asked, “Stonyhurst, College, gentlemen?”
Upon replying “Yes,” they were allowed
to enter the carriage. Behind them came a
man not by any means faultlessly dressed,
and as he was about to step into the carri-
age the official said, “Stand away, please—
Duke of Norfolk’s carriage!” “Yes, I
know,” said the other,—“I am the Duke
of Norfolk!”


