WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		A STRONG TESTIMONY.
Editors Womans Exponent.
	I have been thinking for some time that
I would again like to bear my testimony to
the truth of the everlasting gospel, that
was revealed to the youthful prophet Joseph
Smith. I have not seen the prophet but I
have read for myself many of his predic-
tions and know that they are true. I have
been a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints for over sixty-
two years and have never found anything
in all that time but what is in accordance
with the word of God. Is there a man upon
the earth today who is unguided by the
spirit of God, who could perform so great a
work in such a short time? I say no, there
is not, he lived as he died a martyer to
truth. Our Savior gave his life as a sacri-
fice for us that we may through obedience
to his laws gain eternal life, but the wicked
did not deem Him worthy to live.
	Did not Joseph Smith teach the same
principles and did not that same wicked
spirit follow him until his life was taken, for
no wrong that he himself had committed,
he went about doing good and teaching all
who would listen to his testimony which he
received direct from our Heavenly Father
and who would dare to deny it. Why do
the world close their eyes to the things
taught them by the servants of God? Why
will they take the downward course, is it
because they love darkness better than
light? The saints of God have nothing to
fear, if we will live up to the laws and com-
mandments of God as they have been laid

[Column 2]
down for us to live by, they will save and
exalt us in the kingdom of God; we know
for a surety that this work is of God, we
also know that the principle of plural mar-
riage was revealed to Joseph Smith from
our Father in heaven and is true and if we
live faithful to our covenants we will be ex-
alted in the kingdom of our Father, we
have nothing to fear but ourselves, will we
be true to ourselves and to our leaders? We
know they are men called of God to carry
on this great and mighty work and no
power beneath the heavens can stop its pro-
gress, the honest in heart will be gathered
from out the world and the wicked will be
cut off, and this earth will be redeemed and
Jesus Christ will come in the clouds of
heaven and reign upon the earth with all
those who remain faithful to the end. With
this knowledge what kind of Saints ought
we to be, we should be very careful never
to put a stumbling block in the way of
those who are constantly watching us, let
our lights shine and give no one a chance
to speak evil of us truthfully; but try to
live above reproach, we have our own rec-
ord to make, we make it each day of our
lives and will have it to meet let it be good
or bad. Then let us be very careful indeed
that we may feel proud and not ashamed
when the books are opened to us. Our
Father is very kind and merciful to us. I
often think we do not appreciate enough
the many blessings He is pouring out upon
his children, we are preserved from the cal-
amities which are daily being poured out
upon the nations of the earth; if we will in-
dulge in the pleasures of the world then we
must partake of her plagues. Those who
have been faithfully warned, and have
treated with contempt the truth will have
to meet it face to face.
	We should at all times be ready to give a
reason for the hope within us, always be
ready to bear our testimony to those who
will listen, we should never allow any one
to speak lightly of any of the principles of
the gospel, and woe to that people or nation
who shall lift their voice against the Saints
and woe unto those who are fighting against
God for He will as predicted come out from
his hiding place and vex the nations with
sore destructions.
	If we are faithful the Lord will fight our
battles and the small stone that was cut out
of the mountains without hands will roll
forth until it fills the whole earth, and no
power beneath heaven can stop it. The Lat-
ter-day Saints do not rely upon the arm of
flesh, they put their trust in that God who
led Israel out of bondage, and who has led
the Latter-day Saints through all their
trials of driving mobbing persecutions and
which they have endured for the Gospel’s
sake. And those who have lifted their hand
to stay the work of God will have to pay
the bill. I have seen many fall by the way-
side, but it has been those who have built
their faith upon a sandy foundation, those
who have built upon the rock stand firmer
and can not be shaken; but they will grow
and increase, until the perfect day. I feel
now that the whole world is arrayed against
us, we should be as wise as serpents, and
mind our own business, and the Lord will
pilot the old ship Zion safely into port, with
the faithful who have borne their cross, and
who have never doubted, this is my testi-
mony to all the world.
			Your sister in the gospel,
				SARAH B. LAYTON,
Kaysville, August 15, 1904.


