HYRUM STAKE.
	The Hyrum Stake Relief Society confer-
ence, held at Hyrum, August 19, 1904.
	After the opening exercises of singing
and prayer, the roll was called showing all
of the wards represented.
	President Nellie N. Parkinson greeted all
with a kindly welcome and expressed her
pleasure in seeing so many present. Re-
ported the stake in good condition finan-

[Column 3]
cially and spiritually, the sisters are very
liberal. Was grateful for the visit of the
sisters from Logan.
	Sister Adeline Barber, of Logan, was
pleased to meet with the sisters of the Hy-
rum Stake, had not forgotten how they had
helped her in her efforts in silk raising.
Sister Barber was dressed throughout in
home-made silk of her own raising, she
said the labor of silk raising was easy if we
had the mulberry trees.
	Sister Oldham, of Paradise, read a lec-
ture prepared by Sister Louisa Gibbs, from
the outlines of mothers’ work on parent-
hood.
	Sister Mary E. Howell was delighted to
be present and see so many of the younger
sisters, as well as the older ones who al-
ways attend these meetings. Wondered if
the younger sisters would have the cour-
age to pass through the trials that the older
sisters have passed through.
	Patriarch C. O. Card said we could not
do better than to emulate the example of
the older brethren and sisters.
	Sister Elva Parkinson recited beautifully
As the Moon Arose.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke of the great
work mothers have to raise their children
right, we should watch them and guard
them against wrong doing and evil of every
kind, admonish all, not to keep company
with vulgar people, one person can contam-
inate a whole community. Teach the chil-
dren good table manners, and above all to
pray, that they may know what to do in
times of trial and temptation. We should
rule our children in love and not be harsh.
	President William C. Parkinson had al-
ways felt that the Relief Society is one of
the best helps in the Church. Its mission
is a noble one, to look after the sick and
the poor and comfort the sorrowful. Spoke
of a model home; it isn’t wealth that brings
happiness, but being kind and doing our
duty to each other.
	Afternoon session. Sister Campbell, of
Providence, was the first speaker. Referred
to woman’s great mission to bring forth
bodies for the spirits that are eagerly await-
ing a coming forth on the earth, also spoke
of family prayer.
	President I. C. Thoresen spoke of the
good work done by the sisters in looking
after the sick and poor, and also after
the spiritual welfare of those that are weak.
Urged all to go to the Temple at least
once a year.
	Counselor Elizabeth Critchlow felt that
it was a glorious privilege we have in at-
tending these meetings and one we should
appreciate and enjoy.
	Sister Jane E. Molen had been away
from the Saints for a short season, had felt
the want of the priesthood, as she had been
sick and no Elders near to administer to
her. Was glad to be at home among the
Saints again.
	Sister Salina Parks sang “Home, Sweet
Home.”
	Sister Anna M. Ralph urged the moth-
ers to visit the meetings of the Y. L. A.
occasionally and see what their daughters
were doing, also that they be companions to
their daughters.
	“The Holy City” was rendered by the
Sisters Mayer of Wellsville.
	Sister Zina Y. Card addressed the congre-
ference on the use of the franchise, showed
how it could be made a blessing to every
community by voting for the best men or
women regardless of politics.
	Georgene Ralph thought we had been


[Column 1]
greatly blessed in our meeting together. 
Hoped all would carry the good spirit and 
instructions to their homes and to the sis-
ters that were unable to be present. 
President Nellie N. Parkinson, in behalf 
of the sisters of the Stake, presented Sister 
Adeline Barber with a purse of $44.30, to 
show the esteem and love they had for her 
as the pioneer president of the Cache Stake 
Relief Society. 
While Sister Barber was composing her-
self, the Sisters Mayer again favored us 
with a song. 
Sister Barber thanked the sisters for 
their kindness. Asked the Lord to bless 
them all. 
Sister Mary Howell and President George 
Pitkin each spoke briefly. Sister Selina
Parkes sang “I know that My Redeemer
Lives.” Conference adjourned for three 
months. Benediction by Bishop H. L. 
Liljenquist. 
GEORGENE RALPH, Sec. 
WASATCH STAKE. 
The annual Relief Society conference 
of the Wasatch Stake convened on June 15,
1904, at 10 a.m and 2 p.m, in the stake 
tabernacle. Meetings were well attended 
by the general stake authorities, local offic-
ers, and sisters of the society. Sisters Car-
rie S. Thomas and Rebecca Little, repre-
senting the General Board of the Relief So-
ciety,, were also present. 
The reports from the various ward officers 
showed the condition of the work to be in 
a progressing state. A paper was read by 
Rose A. Musser, “Character laid in youth.” 
Alice Baird recited “Poorhouse Man.”
The financial condition of the branches 
of the Relief Society were shown to be in 
good condition by the report of the stake
secretary.
The visiting sisters gave excellent advice 
along the lines of Relief Society work, 
dwelling on the necessity of exercising 
kindness and charity in our labors, the 
necessity of looking after the poor and 
needy, and learning the Gospel and how to 
live it through the mother's work were em-
phasized.
President Wm. A. Smart commended the 
past work of the sisters and encouraged 
greater labors in the future; paid a glow-
ing tribute to the aged sisters, whose labors 
have done so much in the development of 
the work of the Lord in this stake of Zion, 
urged them to continue to assist in the work. 
SARAH K. DUKE, Stake Secretary. 
BOX ELDER STAKE. 
The Relief Society conference of the Box 
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle, 
Saturday, May 21, 1904, President Susan-
nah P. Booth presiding. On the stand 
were the stake. officers and Sister Mary 
Alice Lambert of Salt Lake City. 
After the usual exercises, President 
Booth expressed herself pleased with the 
attendance, felt the Spirit of the Lord would 
be with us.
Mantua reported by Christena Jenson, 
next, Bear River City; President Love-
land, of Deweyville, said “on account of 
quarantine the work at that place could 
not progress as well this winter, but were 
able now to continue their work. Sister
Thorn, of Perry, spoke of that society and
mother’s work. President Mary S. Tol-
man, Honeyville; Mary Fridal, Elwood; 
Julia Bingham, Garland, spoke of work in 
the respective wards. President Annie S.

[Column 2]
Johnson, First ward, Brigham City, re-
ported that as doing well. President Har-
per, of North ward, reported that ward. 
President Booth introduced Sister Lam-
bert, who said: “I am a stranger to most 
of you, but we are all working in the 
same cause; spoke of arranging work so 
as to be able to attend meetings. We are 
all interested in mother’s work; said Sister 
B. W. Smith does not want us to refer to
mother’s work as a class; spoke on singing 
as it is an important feature; related some 
of her experiences, of the Prophet Joseph 
Smith; spoke of teaching the children the 
principles of the Gospel by living them our-
selves; said that Sister Smith sent her love 
to the sisters. 
Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer, etc. President Bowen, of Beaver; 
Mary E. Ward, Willard; President Emma 
Lee, Third ward Brigham City, reported 
respective wards as doing well. A quartette
was rendered by members of the choir.
President Sarah Wilde, of the Fourth ward 
Brigham City; Martha Pierce, Thatcher;
President Boden, Second ward Brigham 
City, all gave favorable reports, mention-
ing the death of Sister Hannah Jenson, 
who was a teacher for several years. 
The Scandinavian Society was reported 
by President Emma Pratt, and she said 
that they had sent the money to emigrate 
an older Sister and young girl from the old 
country.
President Booth thought she could report 
Park Valley, said they were getting along 
as usual; their secretary had died last win-
ter—one who had done faithful work. Pres-
ident Kelly sent word that he was detained 
and could not attend the conference. Two 
letters were read, one from Stone, Idaho, 
and one from Snowville.  A solo was ren-
dered by Sister Mayhew. 
Sister Lambert was pleased with the re-
ports, urged the sisters to improve and keep
on in the great work. Sister Emilia Mad-
son spoke on the mission of mothers. 
President Booth felt to thank Sister 
Lambert for the good instructions, and ex-
pressed her pleasure and satisfaction at the 
conference; after singing, the benediction 
was pronounced by Sister Emmeline Wat-
kins, and conference adjourned for six 
months. 
