						A. L. FISHER.


[Column 1]
KING GEORGE’S BIRTHDAY.
	King George of Saxony, was seventy-
two years old, on Aug. 8, 1904.
	The day was observed as a holiday in
Saxony. The German flag, and student’s
flags of green and white, and blue and yel-
low were flying in the breeze, the discharge
of guns, and cannon’s thundering roar.
Manuevers of troops, were also a feature of
the day’s celebration, in Dresden, Leipzig,
and other cities.
	In the evening, over the entrance door of
the old Raut Haus, Leipzig, a crown, about
three feet high, and two sun burst stars,
about two feet high, formed entirely of
small gas jets, was sparkling and glisten-
ing, as though composed of diamonds.
	The glittering spectacle, lighted the
whole of the old market square, used long
ago for a market. The Saxon coat of arms
are inlaid, in fine stones, in its pavement
still, right in front of the gleaming insig-
nia of royalty. The Raut Haus was used
by Napoleon to stable his horses in as well
as the churches, during his raid on this
land 1813.  It is a queer but well preserved
looking building. King George is not be-
loved by his people, as he demanded a raise
of two million marks annually, more than
was paid to his brother, the late King
Abucht. The result of this was, that when
the people paid their taxes, a slip of paper
was handed each one, for twenty-five per
cent more, for the crown, so that those who
struggled hard before for the common ne-
cessities of life, had their burdens heavily
increased, on the women directly or indi-
rectly much of this falls.
	It was a beautiful day, cool and free
from dust, as it had rained the day before.
A picnic had been arranged by a number
of friends. We were to go to a milk gar-
den four or five miles in the country where
milk fresh and sweet could be obtained. On
either said of the road, were rows of fruit
trees heavily laden, yet no one touched
them. We passed large fields of grain some
stacked ready for thrashing, in others the
gleaners were gathering up the remnants
of the harvest. But in every case it was
women, not a man to be seen. The only

[Column 2]
sight of the kind ever witnessed by the
writer there in full operation was a thrash-
ing machine, run entirely by women!
“Where are the men?” was asked. “Learn-
ing to be soldiers,” was the reply. Learn-
ing to be soldiers! Learning to be stood up
to be shot at, learning to be exiled to a bar-
racks life, every young man forced to give
two years of his life to the ruler, which is a
sore expense to his parents, if they are poor,
as of course, the most are.
	Never can they rise above the ranks,
never be advanced.
	The sons of the nobility are there for dis-
tinction and rule. Any of these officers,
for the first ten years of service, are paid
only about sixty marks a month ($15 00)
after that perhaps a hundred marks a month
and they are required to dress handsomely,
and live in like manner. So that of neces-
sity they must marry money, while the
poor cannot afford to marry at all unless the
wife carries the whole burden of life. Thus
it is that about one third, it is estimated, of
the population of monarchial countries, is
illegitimate.
	But recently, a circumstance came to the
knowledge of the writer, a respectable, but
poor widow, was taking care of two such
children, for which she was paid a pittance.
One was two months old, the other seven.
The father of the youngest child is a sold-
ier, so the poor, erring young girl must
pay for its support herself, while the father
of the other one, pays three marks a week
(75 cents) and the mother two marks for its
care. This is the second child born to this
pair, the first having died. They say they
are too poor to marry. “The outlook is
hopeless,” they say, unless they both work
and both save. It seems many, start life
this way, then after they are married, take
the other children home.
	But more often, either father or mother,
or both, go to some other part, forsaking
the helpless one, and leaving it to the tend-
er mercies of the poor house officials. A
woman, who was not paid for such a child,
according to the stipulation, decided to
turn it over to the county, but she was in-
formed, she would have to do the best she
could, as they were unable to take it, hav-
ing a thousand such children, already in the
institution, and it is not a very large city
either. O, the hardships of women and
children, and their degradation! And yet
their King, is the wealthiest monarch in
Europe. Near the farm we visited, a piti-
able object was standing by a gate. Perhaps
thirty years of age, a babe in her arms; a
common stuff skirt, old and shabby, came
just below her knees, on her feet a coarse
pair of shoes, and no stockings this com-
pleted her attire.
	She was not a common looking woman,
either; patience was written on her face,
and there was a trace, of what under hap-
pier conditions, would be termed “woman-
liness.” The farm women, carry a basket,
which bolds about two bushels (our meas-
ure) made square but deep, the corners have
a strong willow stick, about two inches
lower than the bottom of the basket, a


strap is fastened to the basket, with which
they bind it across their chests, then they
deftly wind it around two of the sticks, at
the bottom of the basket and tie it around
their waists.
	They seem to be strong, healthy and
happy. Their lot is certainly preferable to
that of the field women. Of the latter, it
is said, many come from Poland, work all
summer, then return to their own land. It
seems since the dismemberment of that ill
fated country, the people are desperately
poor, hence the situation of the women.
	How untiring they work, only raising
their bent backs for a moment, as they see
an unusual number of women passing so
unlike themselves.
	A fat yoke of oxen, are being fastened to
a wagon, a span of horses hitched to the
tongue. They had a head piece made of
wood, across their foreheads, which was
held by a kind of harness to the body. They
step proudly as they draw the load along,
even they look better than the poor women
in the fields. The working hours of a team
are not nearly so many as those of the wo-
men, teams are never worked like women,
and these are the mothers or wives of men!
	O, how far from the sphere, in which
God placed her as the helpmeet of man, not
a slave.
	On our return walk, some one asked the
question “do the frauen (women) work like
that in America?”
	Answer ye, from every hamlet of that
fair land! It is said that on the occassion of
the king’s recent visit to Rome he gave the
Pope 1,000,000 marks and that while the
people are Protestants he and Court are
Catholic.
