Guide Lessons For October
LESSON 1 Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
Book of Mormon: ALMA'S Last Words
This lesson covers the material to be found in Alma, Chapters 37-44, inclusive.
Outline
I. Alma gives the "sacred things" to Helaman.
1. Admonition to his son Helaman.
2. The articles delivered to Helaman. A. The Brass Plates. B. The Small Plates of Nephi. C. The Large Plates of Nephi. D. The Twenty-four Plates of the Jaredites. E. The Interpreters of the Jaredites. F. The Liahona.
II. Alma instructs his son Shiblon. 1. Commendation of him. 2. Warnings. (See especially 38:14?compare with Luke 18:9-14.)
III. Alma instructs Corianton. 1. In respect to sin and the attitude toward sin. 2. In respect to the resurrection. 3. In respect to the justice of God in "punishment."
IV. Lamanites war against Nephites. 1. Purpose of each people. 2. Leaders of each army?how equipped. 3. The battle and surrender.
Notes
1. It may not be out of place here to repeat in another form what we said as we began our lessons last year. Let us remind ourselves of one point, at least, namely: that the Book of Mormon throws light on life today, because it deals with God's point of view concerning the conduct of the human spirit. Some literature is ephemeral, some permanent. That is to say, some writings have to do only with things of the moment; others, with the eternal struggle of the soul in its effort to reach the higher good. We heard a noted scholar of the New Testament not long ago say that he had tried to make a lecture of high worth out of the writings of one of the philosophers of the Middle Ages. He could not do so, however, because there was nothing in them that reflected light on anything today. With any of the Gospels or the letters of the apostles in the New Testament he found it otherwise. Well, the Book of Mormon is like the New Testament in that it throws light on the affairs of men today. Human nature has the habit of acting very much the same way in every age. People may live in tents one century, in log houses another, and in palaces in still another; or they may use the foot runner to deliver their messages one period, the steamship in another period, and the wireless in a third?it does not matter, for under the skin they are all the same. Now, the Book of Mormon is full of light on situations that arise in human life in the second quarter of the twentieth century. Some of Alma's teachings to his son serve to show what we mean. Corianton wants to know how it is that in the year seventy before Christ Alma can teach the message of the resurrection from the dead. Alma makes this answer: "Is not a soul at this time as precious unto God as a soul will be at the time of His coming? Is it not necessary that the plan of redemption should be made known unto this people as well as unto their children? Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send His angel to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as after the time of His coming?" That is a tremendous thought and beautifully put. Few people, even in our own times, look upon the immense value of a human soul. That is chiefly because they allow trifles to come between the thought and the object. We too often think of a man's or a woman's faults instead of his or her virtues, of what a person is, not of what he may become. And in our own commercial age, the age of the machine, our measure of human value frequently is in terms of what he has, rather than of what he is. Well, a passage like that of the great Alma brings us back to the thought that in God's eyes a human soul is the most precious thing in the world. Try it in your own experience, and see whether it is illuminating on modern life or not. Does it throw any light on whether a married couple should have children or practice artificial birth control? Does it throw any light on the question of child labor? Does it tell us how to treat criminals, in or out of prison? Does it throw any light on whether or not we should use persuasion in our dealings with our own children and others? These are modern problems. To be sure, this thought is given also in the New Testament, but that does not do away with its force in the Book of Mormon. The point is, that the Nephite Record is a work that is enlightening today, notwithstanding it was written hundreds of years ago?which shows that it is a book of permanent, rather than temporary, worth.
2. It will be remembered by those who followed the lessons last year that we referred occasionally to matters in the Book of Mormon which pointed to its divine origin. One of these we find in the present lesson on the Prophet Alma. In the admonitions of Alma to his son there are some expressions which, when viewed as those of an elderly, experienced man, are in perfect keeping with that fact, but which, when viewed as the utterance of a young farmer twenty-four years old, are altogether out of character. The prophet Alma speaks of the records of his nation as having "enlarged the memory of this people." That is charged with too much experience for Joseph Smith at the time he translated the Book of Mormon. The phrase we have already quoted from Alma about the value of human souls is another to the same effect. Then take this sentence from his instructions to Corianton: "Go no more after the lusts of your eyes, but cross yourself in all these things. * * Oh, remember, and take it upon yourself to cross yourself in these things." That is not only a good thought, but it is by no means a commonplace expression of it?too little common to be the work of an uneducated young man. "All is as one day with God," is another of Alma's fine phrases, "and time only is measured unto men." Here is one more that vies with one in the Old Testament about the "way of the transgressor" being "hard": "Wickedness never was happiness." How did a youth without experience ever come to say a thing like that? Again: "For that which ye do send out shall return unto you again." That is in the same class of expressions which can come only out of a large experience of life?which Joseph Smith did not have at the time he published the Book of Mormon. Nor is that all. Look at the fine distinctions in doctrine that are to be found in this part of Alma. "The soul shall be restored to the body, and the body to the soul"?says Alma. Here is advanced the doctrine of a literal resurrection. Where did Joseph Smith get it? Certainly not out of the sects of his day, for they believed that only the spirit survived death, and that in unembodied form. Elsewhere the Nephite prophet declares there are various periods of resurrection. Where did the modern seer get that? Then notice the very subtle distinctions drawn in the forty-first chapter, verses twelve to fifteen. Such a refined distinction could be the result only of a mental discipline that Joseph Smith did not have at twenty-five years of age.
Questions
1. What "wise purpose" did Alma have in mind in speaking of the records he was delivering to his son Helaman?
2. Explain what he means in verse six of chapter thirty-seven, when he speaks of "small and simple things."
3. What "small and simple things" in your own life, in your community, or in your Church may be said to be pregnant with "great things"?
4. How many sons of Alma are spoken of here? Was the conduct of them all satisfactory to Alma? Can you account for Corianton's "affair"?
5. What difference does it make whether a nation keeps a written record or not?
LESSON 2
Work and Business
TEACHER'S Topic For October
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in October.)
THE RELIEF SOCIETY
A Great Cause
An opportunity of great magnitude to belong to an organization of 63,000 enrolled members of same faith.
Lesson Work: Practical adult education. Three courses comparable to college and university courses?Literary, Theology, Social Service. Every member an instructor in some way.
Visiting Teaching: Training Class. Delivers a message to each home. Represents the president. Must be prepared on topic. Number of teachers, 20,000. (a) Collections for charity; amount delivered intact. (b) Work and Business Day. Social benefits. Opportunity for service.
Social Welfare: Financial activity?collected during 1929: Charity Funds, $88,896 General Funds, $128,628 Annual Dues, $23,000 Other Receipts, $67,569
Practically every dollar handled by visiting teachers without a loss; collected and disbursed in locality in which it was gathered, except one-half amount for general dues.
Distribution of Charity?Method: Bishop, Ward President, Social Service Aid.
LESSON 3
Literature (Third Week in October)
THE SHORT STORY: AN INTRODUCTION TO THE LITERARY LESSONS FOR 1930-31
The lesson material for the short story work is to be found in a one-volume text book, Great Short Stories of the World by Clark and Lieber. It is a collection of complete short stories, chosen from the literature of all periods, and from thirty-odd countries. If necessary, class leaders will find in the book sufficient material for conducting the year's work, but from time to time there will be published in this section titles of other collections, biographical material, and books on the study of the short story. Some of the class leaders' favorite authors may not be included. Other teachers may wish that a different story had been selected. In these cases the instructors may decide to use material outside the text. It would also be well for the teachers to keep in mind the fact that in their classes will be representatives from many nations?Great Britain, France, Norway, Germany, Holland, etc. As the lesson work progresses each sister-student will have an opportunity to know more of her literary heritage. She will learn to know the early story tellers of her race?how these artists used the material found in their particular environment, and how the story telling needs of her native country have changed in succeeding centuries.
Just as a person cannot come to an appreciation of poetry without much intimate contact with the poems themselves, so she cannot have an understanding and feeling for the art of short stories without actually reading or hearing them. Many of the stories should be read in class by the most fluent readers the Society can produce. But this alone will not be sufficient. The instructors should urge that the members read as widely as possible in the text and in other collections, and whenever possible in the better type of contemporary magazines. In this way the class members will form new standards of judgment, and they will have an added delight and appreciation for the short story writers of our day.
At the present time the term "short story" has a fairly definite meaning. It is an individual in prose as a lyric or epic poem in poetry, and writers of modern short stories study certain technique and conform to certain standards. There have been numerous volumes written to explain the changes in the "short story" and to differentiate it from the story that is merely short. In Great Short Stories of the World the authors have used none of these theories as the one basis of material selection. Instead, the collection presents a wide variety of stories which the authors believe will appeal to the general reader. The essential purpose of all stories is to entertain, and it will be interesting to note the similarity and the changes in the material and technique of the stories, say, since the days of the ancient Chinese and today, when a person buys his short story magazines as methodically as he meets his monthly bills.
However, for the purpose of understanding the art of present-day short stories, which had their development in America and France during the nineteenth century, and which in 1930 have spread to every writing country, the qualities of the short story will be considered. One student has defined the short story as "a small piece of segment of the life of its characters viewed by itself, away from what has gone before and what comes after." This segment should have the following traits:
1. The narrative should be short enough to be read easily at one sitting.
2. It must be written so as to produce a single impression on the mind of the reader. In order to accomplish this the story must be pitched in one emotional key, and at every stage the action must add to the development of the basic idea. Humor and pathos may be mingled, but they must produce the same effect in the end. Everything that does not tend to produce the single impression must be excluded.
3. The story must be complete and final in itself.
4. No matter how impossible the plot may be, the story must have every indication of reality.
That, in brief, defines the short story. Still, there are many qualities a short story must have in order to be a good one. One of the major requirements is that in some way the writer must make the story so close to life that the reader is drawn into its enchantment. For the time being he must live as if he were a participant in the event. Naturally, too, there must be a combination of plot and character, for without action there can be no story. The plot, itself, is often simple, and the best story has an underlying idea?not necessarily a moral one?which can be expressed in a single sentence. As an illustration, Daudet's story of the "Last Lesson" has for its theme a phase of French patriotism. It is common for the short story to emphasize one of three or four points?character, action, setting, or theme. Some stories may stress two, and occasionally a rare story is found where all of the points seem to have an almost equal prominence. And the story is best that deals with few characters, two or three perhaps, and seldom over five. It may be told in the main by one of two ways, subjectively, where the author reveals the motives and mental currents of the character or characters as in Anderson's "Sophistication," or objectively, where he discloses what the characters think by quoting their speech and action. Verga follows this method of presentation in his story "Cavalleria Rusticana." Both methods are closely interrelated. No matter which one is dominant, it is best for the story to be told from the point of view of one person. Where several persons' points of view are presented, the reader becomes confused and loses his unity of impression and emotion. There must be distinction in phrase, epithet, sentence, structure, and diction. And there must be originality of thought, and if possible a touch of fantasy. All of these tend to make up that rather undefinable thing known as style. Today's writer also stresses that the style must be direct and vigorous, however subtle it may be in suggestion. Almost every decade sees some variation of these characteristics, yet in the essentials the short story remains the same.
For the convenience of the class leaders some suggestive problems suitable for the course are included in this Introduction.
1. Theme of story. What is it; does it have an original slant, and how is it handled?
2. Beginning of story. This is highly important and is the most difficult for the writer. How has he handled the problem? Is your interest caught from the first word? (In a short story the writer can spend only a few words or a sentence in the introduction. The action must start from almost the first word.) How has he managed to start his action and dialogue with reference to exposition and description? Is his arrangement suitable to his particular story?
3. Point of View. How told?impersonally or by one of the characters? What advantages or disadvantages comes to the author from his method of telling? Does the point of view shift at any time during the story?
4. Ending. Does the story end at the exact point or does it fade into an anti-climax? Is the ending effective, or should it come earlier? Does the ending satisfy? If there is a surprise ending, has adequate preparation been made for it?
5. Plot. Is the plot too obvious or is it hidden? What use is made of dramatic forecast and clues? If the time covered is long, have the high spots of the action been touched? Is the major climax heightened by a series of minor ones? Have someone state the plot as briefly as possible.
6. Style. Is the style suitable to the material and emotional tone of the story? Does the style add any charm of its own? Is the dialogue natural? If the story is told in the first person, does the teller express himself as such a person would in actual life? Does the author have a characteristic style which would make it possible for a reader to identify other of his stories? If this is true, explain why.
If time permits it would be well to close this introductory lesson by the class leader reading a short story. It should be a brief one, exemplifying the best qualities of a short story. One of Poe's, O'Henry's, Maupassant's, or Daudet's "The Last Lesson," found in the text will be suitable. Maupassant's "The Necklace" is also a suitable one, provided the members are not already very familiar with it.
Books about the short story which will be helpful to the class leaders: The Short Story in English, by H. S. Canby. The Story Teller's Art, by Charity Dye. The Philosophy of the Short Story, by Brander Matthews. Short Story Writing, by Walter B. Pitkin. Writing the Short Story, by Esenwein. The Short Story, Its Principles and Structure, by Albright. The Development of the American Short Story, by Pattee.
"The child must have three more births after its physical birth, each more painful than the first. It must be born into a world of self realization, into the life of the social group, and into a world of ideal values."?Dr. Edwin D. Starbuck.
LESSON 4
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
PERSONALITY STUDY: UNDERSTANDING AND CONTROLLING HUMAN BEHAVIOR
Introduction to Social Service Lessons, 1930-31
In the class work in social service for this season there is to be a series of nine lessons based upon the adopted text and the material presented in this department of the Relief Society Magazine. The text is Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, which may be purchased at a very reasonable price. The committee in charge of this work in each ward or branch should make an effort to place individual copies of the text in the hands of as many members of their organization as possible, as this one thing alone will do much to insure the success of the course and help in the personal growth of each member.
Books containing valuable supplementary material, listed in the order of their availability and helpfulness in this course are the following:
Poulson, M. W.?Human Nature in Religious Education. West, P. V. And Skinner, C. E.?Psychology for Religious and Social Workers. Jastrow, J.?Keeping Mentally Fit. Bagby, E.?The Psychology of Personality.
What shall we say is the keynote of this course of lessons? In his preface the author of our text says: "Nowadays children are persons; and the task of parents is to be real persons themselves to such an extent that their children accept them as of convincing power in their lives." And then he asks by way of further focusing of attention on our task: "How, in short, can we actually change individuals?ourselves as well as others?into personalities more apt for our human enterprise?"
Dean H. M. Woodward has recently given what to the writer is even a more challenging statement of the same general problem. He says: "There is no greater job and no more profitable undertaking than the improvement of our own lives. We cannot dream ourselves into a great life. We must simply take ourselves in hand where we are and with patience and determination overcome those weaknesses which hold us back."
A tentative outline of the lessons of the course is as follows:
1. Understanding and Controlling Human Behavior (See text, pp. 1-27).
2. The Psychology of Persuasion (pp. 28-70).
3. The Psychology of Conversation, Writing and Public Speaking (pp. 71-109).
4. Making Ideas Stick (pp. 110-139).
5. How to Change Persons (pp. 143-168).
6. Habits and Growth (pp. 169-183, 209-216).
7. Thinking Straight (pp. 184-200).
8. The Creative Mind (pp. 217-255).
9. Effectiveness of Humor (pp. 256-277).
Throughout these lessons the common interest of our particular group in "understanding and improving social conditions" will be kept in mind. Those phases of psychology that are mainly abstract and of mere theoretical interest will be omitted. It will be recognized, however, that very many discerning mothers who have had little or no training in academic psychology are nevertheless rather good "practical psychologists" in the sense that they already have considerable valuable knowledge and experience in understanding and controlling the behavior, especially of children.
The reading suggested in connection with each lesson should be regarded not as a task but as an important means to aid in the accomplishment of our main purpose, i.e., the enhancement of our personalities so that we may "become skilled artists in the enterprise of life."
How shall we mark our personal copies of the text so as to record our personal reactions to the material and make them more serviceable as aids in our class discussions? The writer knows of no better device than the conservative and judicious marking of the books and magazines that we ourselves own by means of vertical lines in the outside margins. These lines may be single, double, or treble for different degrees of emphasis and should, perhaps, not be placed nearer than one-eighth of an inch to the edge of the printing. The common practice of extensive underlining tends to literally blot out important parts and does not make possible the indication of different degrees of importance. Parts on which you feel the need of help from others in understanding or on which you would express disagreement might well be indicated by small question marks in the margin. Some of these may later be neatly erased when they have served their purpose.
Read carefully the first twenty-seven pages of the text and if possible exchange ideas on some of the points there considered before the class discussion is held.
Supplementary References
Poulson?Human Nature (pp. 1-5, 14-19, 48-49, 55-56). (This book was used in the Teacher Training Course during 1927-28 and used copies are probably still to be found in most wards of the Church. An effort might well be made to locate some of these copies.)
Problems for Discussion
1. In the author's Foreword and Preface locate several slightly different statements of what constitutes the "major art of life" or the "central problem" of the proposed course. Read these and comment briefly on each.
2. Comment on the first paragraph on page four of our main text.
3. What does the phrase "salvaging of human life" suggest to you? To what extent do our own lives need salvaging?
4. The book begins with a consideration of some of the commonly neglected simple methods of influencing human behavior. Which of those mentioned in the first chapter do you think are most commonly effective? Most commonly neglected?
5. Give one or two original illustrations to bring home the truth of the statement that "we influence others very largely in ways far more real than we suspect." (See p. 15.)
6. The first half of page sixteen suggests the following quotation from Swift: "Be sure that the home is a peaceful place except for the joyous activity of children. Never call from one room to another. Never raise your voice above a tone that indicates composure." Is it a fact that in our homes we use the most "wretched techniques" for influencing human behavior? Suggest some needed improvements in this connection.
7. Compare opinions as to the most helpful suggestion obtained from this lesson to increase the efficiency of social workers or visiting teachers in the Relief Society.
God's Idea
By Samuel G. Clawson
When God made birds and flowers and trees To decorate this homely world, He looked and said, "I'm not quite pleased With all the beauty I've unfurled; There's something lacking in my plan, This pleases neither God nor man."
He thought and thought and wracked his brain For something which would add the art Of magic to terrestrial plane, Where beauty dwelt without a heart. And then he looked down from above And said, "The world's in need of love."
"I'll make a creature which will lend A loveliness to this great sphere Who will be more than just a friend, She'll teach them love throughout the year." And to the world he gave another Wondrous gift; we call it "Mother." Sego MILK Pudding and Custard Creams Rival At All Grocer's "A Surety of Purity"' Not one item of unwashable merchandise is displayed in the Open in our stores. The O. P. Skaggs System believes that unwashable merchandise that has been touched by a fly should not be eaten. With our unceasing efforts to guard the health of our customers, they feel safe when buying foods at our stores. They know we have taken every step possible to live up to our slogan. Make one of our stores your "Surety of Purity" in foods today. O. P SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" By SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT With the Relief Society General Board and the Publishers of GREAT SHORT STORIES OF THE WORLD THE DESERET BOOK COMPANY P. O. Box 1793?44 East on South Temple St., Can furnish this book for your literary work At $2.88 Postpaid Cash with the Order Order Your Copies Now When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Quality Education for Utah Students CITIZENS of the State of Utah are appreciative of the high standards of scholarship maintained by the state?s highest institution of learning. This fact is attested by the constantly increasing enrollment, so that there are now more students at The University of Utah than in all other institutions of higher learning in the state. Quality work has brought quantity students. High Scholastic Standards are rigidly enforced, so that University of Utah credits are fully accepted everywhere in the educational world. All fully qualified students will be welcomed and will receive the best the state has to offer in educational work. A broad curriculum presented by a faculty of excellent training, amid truly educational surroundings is the offering to those students who are interested in obtaining a University education of high quality. Registration Dates Freshmen students must send in an application blank, and have their credits sent in as soon as possible. Freshmen will register September 25, and attend special instructional classes September 26 and 27. Former students and transfer students from other universities must register September 29. Regular class work starts September 30. Make Your Pians Now to Attend Utah's Highest Institution of Learning SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES SCHOOL OF EDUCATION SCHOOL OF MINES AND ENGINEERING SCHOOL OF MEDICINE SCHOOL OF LAW SCHOOL OF BUSINESS EXTENSION DIVISION For Catalog or Other Information, Address The President UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  Protect the Home Circle The easy _ systematic Mortgage Prepayment plan of the Equitable Life Assurance Society protected by Life Insurance is outstanding as the best means of freeing 'the American Home Owner from a mortgage obligation. Cost per $1000 per month including interest, principal and insurance is from $10 up to $15 per month. Ask Us About Further Details Ashton -Jenkins Go. '32 Main Street Wasatch 123 Salt Lake City