Daughter's Beaus By Elsie WAS standing on the step-lad- | der taking the living room curtains down to shake, when the telephone rang. It was Saturday forenoon. My head was swathed in a towel and my face and house dress were streaked with dust? and my back ached. I was giving the living room a little better than the regular Saturday's cleaning, but had just been thinking that if I didn't bother much for lunch I could get through before noon. There were canned beans and fish and the children could scramble some eggs and open a jar of peaches. I got down from the step-ladder and answered the phone. It was Marian, speaking scarcely above a whisper, her voice tremulous and thrilled. Marian was seventeen, making good at her first job in a drug store, and incidentally discovering that' she was becoming popular with her boy friends. "O, Mother, Bob Watson from Ogden is in here?You know? our class president last year?the fellow who took me to the prom. He's on his way to Los Angeles for his vacation and?just stopped off here for a couple of hours?he says?to see me. Mother, may I bring him home to lunch?" My lips began to draw themselves into a straight line. It did seem that children ought to have a little consideration. Saturday. Almost eleven o'clock. My back ached, and it would mean? M ARIAN must have sensed my hesitancy in that pause. "I know it's Saturday, and that you are busy. But you wouldn't C. Carroll need to go to any extra bother. I could bring some ice-cream home from here, and?you could leave the dishes??Or would you rather I'd stay down town and go somewhere to lunch with him? He'll only be here a couple of hours." "Stay down town." Those were the words that cleared my senses. Eating down town at first with Bob, then perhaps with strangers. That was doubtless how little Elva Daniels, who ran away with a traveling salesman last winter, had started. "Why, bring him home, of course, dear," I heard myself saying with a little catch of eagerness in my voice. ""Would you rather have combination or tuna-fish salad?" "Combination?with your good mayonnaise dressing. And thanks, Mother, a lot. We'll be there a little after twelve. Shall I bring some ice-cream?" "No.?I'll make a shortcake or something. "Oh thanks, Mother, you're so good to me." I TURNED from the 'phone with cheeks burning at the thought of how nearly I had come to not being good to her.. What did a little extra work, a little extra bother mean, compared to doing the right thing by my girl? How nice it was that she wanted to bring Bob home to lunch. I must make her keep on wanting to bring her friends home. I had drawn most of the living room furniture out into the dining room preparatory to brushing down the walls. It would have to be put back and the unshaken curtains re- 444. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hung. It would not be fair to Marian to let her bring Bob to such a disordered room. I would have to put in a special delivery call for groceries?an 'extra twenty-five cents?and I needed to count every penny; but Marian must not be ashamed of the lunch to which she had invited this wonderful Bob. I would even put on the best silver. Pe pretense? No. I see it quite differently. Marian must be helped to continue to want to bring her friends home to lunch. I must put on a clean, dainty dress, and fuss a little with my hair and brush my cheeks with a little of Marian's rouge, and powder my nose. Foolish nonsense? Not at all. Marian must not be ashamed of me when she presented her Bob. Neither must he look at me in a soiled dress and with frowsy hair, a reflection of Saturday cleaning, and register a mental picture of what Marian would look - like seventeen years hence. Extra work, and expense? Yes. And the unpleasantness of having to get back into the towel and soiled dress and going back to the cleaning again the afternoon when I should have liked to be resting and reading ?hbut worth it all. HEN I hear mothers lamenting the fact that their girls are never willing to stay at home evenings, but are always wanting to car-ride, or go to the movies, or public dance halls; or that they are worried about their daughters' friends because they don't know the first thing about them, I wonder if they always make it a point to be presentable when daughter's friends call, and on hand to be presented?even to make the introduction themselves, if daughter forgets. It isn't hard to smile pleasantly and say, "This is Jack, I suppose. I'm Mary's mother. Please sit down, I think she is almost ready." Perhaps it's a little harder than slipping into the back bedroom because your hair "is a sight" and your apron soiled, when you hear the door bell ring and know it is Jack or Ned coming. But it's worth it. I wonder if those worrying mothers ever "happen" to have a nice dish of home-made candy, or popcorn on hand the evenings they know daughter is expecting Jack or Bob. Or if they spend money for the latest phonograph records and piano roll. (What if they are jazz and you hate jazz? If they can't hear those latest tunes in your home they'll go some place else to hear them and dance by them.) Expensive? Yes. But a mighty sane investment when you count the dividends in terms of peace of mind. DAUGHTER'S beaus! Yes, surely they can be a nuisance with their eternal desire to dance on the new rug; their continuous loud laughter over silly jokes; their never-tiring, grinding out jazz on the phonograph, piano, or banjo-- when you are tired and would like to sleep?or are worried for fear the neighbors are: being annoyed; their unbelievable capacity for sandwiches and punch and wafers. But _worth it for the joy of having them there with daughter, instead of having her off?somewhere?anywhere with them, for the satisfaction of learning to know them so you can casually drop a hint such as, "I would think Fred were ever so much nicer if he didn't use so much slang. Wouldn't you?" or, "TIsn't it too ba 1- Jack isn't sincere when he's so clever? Cleverness is a fine thing to DAUGHTER'S BEAU 445 have but there are other qualities so much more desirable. Don't you think so? Now there's Heury. He isn't clever, nor handsome, but he's the kind of boy who'll make a real man. Haven't you noticed how considerate he is of everyone?' Never moralizing nor preaching, of course?but letting fall those little comments that will help daughter, without her realizing it, in forming right judgments when it comes tine for her to choose her mate. ANOTHER invaluable reward a mother gets for making an effort to know her daughter's friends, is that it gives a basis for those little confidences which every mother longs to keep. If you know all about Bob and Fred and Jack because they are frequent, informal visitors in your home, it is much easier for your daughter to say, "Mother, Fred tried to kiss me tonight?and I-?,"' or "Mother, what do you think Bob meant when he said?." AND so, you mothers of daughters who are just stepping out of the realm of little girlhood into that world of romance and _ thrills-??for your own peace of mind, for the sake of your daughter's future? cultivate your daughter's beaus.