The Pledge of Oberammergau By Olga Wunderly Snell THAT is it that insistently calls the visitor back to the lonely valley of the Ammer? Not the mountains for they are not more beautiful than others in that region, not the winding river whose banks are verdant yet devoid of the charms of an Isar, not the picturesque houses and their inhabitants whose pleasant '"Guess Gott" welcomes the stranger to partake of the country's hospitality. It is the atmosphere, the spirit of 1633 still lingering over the hallowed spot, living on perennially in the heart of every Oberammergauer and finding expression in his every-day walk and deed. Coming from Munich and -approaching the home of the Passion Play the eye is attracted upward to a large cross erected upon the highest peak of Mount Koffel. Of symbolic importance, it seems at once to protect, to guard, and to bless; for it is to the memory of Him whose life was sacrificed upon the cross, and in grateful remembrance of a prayer answered that the people of Oberammergau pledged to. Perform the Passion of Christ ery tenth year. HEN nearly fires: hundred years ago the plague ravaged | fhe country and threatened to annihilate the entire village, the lowly peasants, in their hour of despair, turned to Him who said: "And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive." The twelve oldest men of the town called the people to a special service. At the Church and there they all solemnly vowed that if the Lord - would preserve them and their. Families from further destruction, they would portray the suffering of. The Savior as an offering of thanksgiving as well as for the "edification of mankind in general." Their trusting faith stayed the hand of the destroyer and although many were stricken with the disease, none died. The following year, 1634, saw the fulfillment of their vow and the first performance of the "Great Atoning Sacrifice on Golgotha," as the play was then called. To this day they have kept the pledge of their fathers. BYERY member of the community looks forward to the season of the Great Play with tense anticipation and many are the preparations, both personal and communal. The play was written by one of them with the help of the scriptures; the music, too, is a home product; in fact, it has been composed twice as the first composition was destroyed by fire in 1817. For costuming and setting they looked to the masters of old for inspiration. God Himself created the background, for the stage is built in the open surrounded by the rustic beauty of the quiet valley. The participants ithemselves display a sincerity, a devotion and simple eloquence which go far to make the great religious drama a success as it unfolds from the time of Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem to the rolling away of the stone and the message of the angel: "He is risen." Thus with gratitude we turn to the mountaineers of Oberammergau who not only 'preserved for the world a piece of art almost unchanged from the Middle Ages but in. The sweet serenity of their mountain home have nurtured an ideal whose loftiness touches all who come within its sphere. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest ANNOUNCEMENT, 1930 This memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually. Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. Two prizes will be awarded, a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. 2. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks. 3. Only one side of the paper should be used. 4, Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest. 7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 8. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15, 1930. The prize poems will be published each year in the January issue of -the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates. All entries should be sent to Mrs. Mary C. Kimball, Editor, Relie/ Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15, and statement should accompany them that they are entered in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest. PRESCIENCE By the late Josephine Spencer The earth may shiver under shrouded suns, A red moon lift the sea; But day or night God's noiseless rivers run The mills of destiny. Notes from A Word of Introduction: CHARITY Never Faileth;" so C reads the motto of our Relief Society, and we might add that energy, vision, enthusiasm are not lacking in the work of many of our organizations. Interesting reports from stakes in all quarters come into the office?reports of things accomplished, and those in progress during the summer months. These reports indicate how very broad the scope of Relief Society work has become. North Davis Stake: FROM North Davis stake we hear the excellent tidings of their clinic work conducted through- 'out the stake. Summer clinics are held, wherever the ward presidents can arrange for them, in the Relief Society rooms. The Relief Society pays for everything except the doctor's fee. It is most fortunate for the people to have a physician devoted entirely to the care of little children, and whole-hearted in his support of the efforts in their behalf. The clinic is sponsored by the Relief Society, and is held one day in each month. The date and time for the clinic is announced in the ward meetings and in the local paper, and parents are urged to be in attendance. During the year past 595 examinations have been made and treatments prescribed; 1,029 children under 8 years of age are in this stake. A free dental clinic is held one day each week. During the past year there have been 675 fillings in baby teeth, 105 extractions, and 15 children are under treatment for straightening of the teeth. In addition to this a program of lectures and stereopticon views occasions. The Field pertaining to the child's health are arranged by Dr. Gleason, and will be given during the summer months to the fathers and mothers in the wards. This in order that parents may become better acquainted with the clinic work, and the fine things that are being accomplished by the doctor and the clinic workers. In this stake there was something of an innovation in reference to conventions. Instead of holding just one convention for all the stake, it was carried into each ward where the teachers were convened, and an inspirational program conducted. The subjects discussed were: '"What Relief Society Teaching Should Mean to the Visited!' What Relief Society Teaching Should Mean to the Relief Society Teacher." Beautiful music and words of encouragement from the Bishoprics and from the stake workers were features of the occasions. It was felt that in conducting these in the wards, a larger number of the teachers were in attendance than if the gathering had covered a wider field. The Relief Society Ward Conferences for the summer have also been scheduled. The following program has been arranged: The opening exercises under the direction of the Bishopric; music, by the Relief Society; his- "torical sketch of the year's work and greetings by the ward president; financial and statistical report and presenting of officers, by the secretary; the subject, '""What the Relief Society Organization Means to Me," discussed by a ward member; "The Responsibility of Membership," discussed by a stake board member; under this responsibility 450 would be listed: 1. Necessity for Funds; 2, The Annual Dues; 3. Loyalty to the Magazine; 4. Attendance at Meetings; "Why Relief Society Work," by the Bishop of the ward. A special program for the summer Relief Society meetings will be arranged in continuation of the literary work, The Society will plan to hold these meetings at the homes of those who are "shut in," or "home bound." During the month of July a review of the book 4 Lantern in Her Hand, will be given. For August The Man Nobody Knows. For September Ramona, a beautiful story by Helen Hunt Jackson. Altogether the work presented is most gratifying. ' Cache Stake: O commemorate the 62nd anniversary of the Cache Stake Relief Society, which was organized May 18, 1868, by Apostle Ezra T. 'Benson, the stake Relief Society board entertained all Relief Society 'officers, class leaders and visiting teachers. This happy event occurred in the Fourth Ward amusement hall on May 17, 1930, at 2 p.m. A very delightful program consisting of community singing, special musical numbers and a short play called Soul Mates were features of the entertainment. The little drama was presented by the winners of the Cache stake M. I. A. Contest. The Society felt specially honored in having with them two women, Sister Laura Mickelsen and Sister Mary Ann Tarbet, who were present at the first organization of the Relief Society in the stake. After the social hour and the program was presented, delicious refreshments were served. Those who were fortunate enough to be in attendance, pronounced it an occasion long to be remembered. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Juab Stake: THE organization of the first Relief Society in the Juab stake was commemorated in a most fitting and impressive celebration held in the Juab Stake Tabernacle on Tuesday, March 18, 1930, at 2 p.m.. The Juab stake board, the wards of Nephi and Levan cooperated in observance of the day. The presence of President Louise Y. Robison, of the General Board of Relief Society, added greatly to the success of the occasion. In addition to the regular program, an exhibition of the work accomplished on Work and Business Day was shown. There was also a collection of pioneer relics, including furniture, clothing, dishes, a spinning wheel, carding machine for wool, and rare old volumes of Church books. The program which followed was most inspirational. Of outstanding interest was the remarkable pageant depicting the presidents and the activities of the Relief Society since the beginning; this under the direction of Mrs. Jennie B. Beck. The pictures were shown in pantomime. Mrs. Leeta M. Squire acted as reader. Scene I. Organization of the Relief Society. Scene II. First President Emma H, Smith, represented by Mrs. J. Smith. Scene III. Second President, Eliza R. Snow, represented by Mrs. Elizabeth Boswell. Scene IV. Third President, Zina D. H. Young, represented by Mrs. Zelnora Ockey. Scene V. Fourth President, Bathsheba W. Smith, represented by Mrs. Jennie Hobbs. Scene VI. Fifth President, Emmeline B. Wells, represented by Mrs. Elizabeth Linton. Scene VII. Sixth President, Clarissa S. Wiliams, represented by Mrs. Janette Ord. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Women WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE JUAB STAKE PAGEANT Scene VIII. Activities of the Relief Society?Feeding the Hungry, Clothing the Needy, Visiting the Sick. Scene IX. All former presidents assembled, and President Louise Y. Robison, now the president of the general Relief Society organization. Another item of interest in this stake is that a course in hygiene and care of the sick has been conducted by a representative of the American Red Cross. This course extended over two months, and 105 women were enrolled; 102 of whom received certificates for a successful completion of the course. It is certainly a matter of congratulation to the stake when so much interest is shown by the women in the educational movements.
Liberty Stake: The Relief Society presidency and board members were hostesses at a luncheon given in honor of the presidents, counselors and secretaries of the ward Relief Societies of Liberty stake. The happy event occurred on May 8, 1930, in the Yale Ward amusement hall, and was in the spirit of a spring festival. The centerpiece was a replica of an old time log cabin meeting house. The beautiful hall was decorated with bridal wreath, tulips and spring flowers of every description. The tables were most exquisite. The potted plants formed the favors. There were 70 guests. Among the special guests were Sister Anna Musser, the first president of the Liberty stake Relief Society. She said grace before the delicious luncheon was served. Counselor Julia A. Child, of the General Presidency; Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary; Sister Lotta Paul Baxter, Sister Hazel H. Greenwood, of the General Board; Sister Myrtle Shurtliff, one of the former stake presidents, were in attendance. Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer presided as toastmistress, and gave a most clever introduction in verse form to the toasts. In response each ward president gave a very fine statement characteristic of the things outstanding in her ward. After the luncheon was served, a program was given in the hall, composed of musical numbers, poems by Sister Greenwood and Sister Shurtliff. Sister Lotta Paul Baxter offered the closing prayer.