By Ruth Partridge Richan
THE young lawyer faced the blue-eyed nurse across his expensive desk.
"And did you put the real lace handkerchief in her hand?"
"Yes indeed, although I was tempted to sell it to help you pay her funeral expenses. She had always been particularly insistent that I put it in her hand, so I just couldn't sell it. Yes, she has it with her. I'm sure it was worth a good deal and would have saved you considerable money."
"It was worth a great deal. A rare piece of old Venetian point. She carried it at her wedding. As for the money, she told you she had plenty for her funeral."
The little nurse laughed.
"YES, I know. She also told me I could have what was left over, bless her old heart. Said it would pay me for my trouble. I know of course, she was practically penniless. A hundred or two perhaps seemed a lot to her. Her funeral cost $500.00. There will be quite a balance for you to pay, but I did as you said and made everything nice."
"Yes. You went to a great deal of trouble to satisfy the dying request of an old lady, a stranger to you, Miss Tridge."
"No, no, really. You see, I knew just how she felt. It seemed somehow as if it were I. It's rather hard to explain, but I can appreciate her feelings because?well, I'm all alone myself and if I should die tonight?there isn't anyone?don't you see? Unless some stranger offered?really it's awful to be so alone, Mr. Kane."
"But your people, where are they?"
"LOST at sea. I haven't even the consolation of their graves. All my life I've had a horror of dying alone and friendless. When old Mrs. Gage made me promise I would have her buried like one of my own, why it would have been impossible to deny her. The very fact that she had to ask me, a stranger, for such a favor made it all the more pathetic. Oh, I understand it too well."
"When I bought clothes I thought over and over to myself, 'I wonder who would take care of me if I should die tonight.' The undertaker let me dress her and comb her hair. All my heart was in it as if she were my own."
The little nurse stood up suddenly; there were tears in her eyes.
"You are the one who deserves credit, Mr. Kane. Few men would shoulder the expense of an old lady's funeral simply because she was a friend of their grandfather. I'm glad it happened. It has been a lovely experience. I must go now. Goodbye, Mr. Kane."
(How handsome he is?how kind his eyes are!)
(How tired she looks. Works like a slave, I'll wager. Game little sport, too.)
"Sit down, Miss Tridge. I have something else to settle. There is a bit of her money left over after all your efforts to spend it. At least you will have a few real lace 'hankies.' Mrs. Gage had one of the finest private collections of real lace in America."
"Goodness me!"
"After my grandfather died, I became administrator for Mrs. Gage's estate. About three years ago we had a talk. Even then the horror of dying alone was uppermost in her thoughts. 'Jimmy,' she said, 'You are all I have in the world. If I'm stricken among strangers I'll send someone to you with a sealed letter, and you do just as it says. Now promise.' So I promised. Three days ago you brought me the sealed letter. Aren't you at all curious to know what is in it?"
"Just an introduction."
"Yes?and more. Listen."
"Dear Jimmy: I'm going to die. The bearer of this letter is my little nurse at the hospital where they took me after the accident. She has been very kind to me and I know she will do with me as she has promised after I'm gone. I think she's a rare piece of lace, Jimmy, delicate and genuine. I want to add her to my collection, but it's too late. I'll have to add the collection to her. She's to have everything if my estimation of her is true. If I've made a mistake and she's cheap imitation, use my money to build a home for cats. I hate cats. It is my wish that you manage her estate?and herself, too, if possible.'
"And now Jimmy, goodbye: thanks to you both for being kind to a funny old woman.'
"Miss Tridge, after paying all the expenses for the beautiful funeral you made possible, I find that you will receive about $50,000 besides the real lace."
"But Mr. Kane, there must be some mistake, I?"
"No mistake, and now as your legal advisor, I suggest we have dinner together and then?"
"And then, please could I see the real lace. I want to pick out a handkerchief to wear?"
"At our wedding?"
"Jimmy!"
[ADVERTISEMENT]
BE SURE TO VISIT THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE BEFORE YOU ENROLL FOR YOUR BUSINESS TRAINING
"THE BEST FOR THE LEAST COST"
Enter Any Monday
L. D. S.