The Little Grandmother By Lucy R. Scott MY mother, Ellen Lewis, and M my father, William Lane, lived in the little factory town of Crewkerne, in Somersetshire, England. They were very poor, because they were weavers; and in those days weavers received a very small wage, fifteen shillings a week at the most. So what with rent to pay, and food and clothing to provide, each member of the family who was old enough was obliged to obtain work in the factories and mills to provide just the bare. Necessities of life. There was nothing left after these were taken care of, tor books, nor to pay for schooling; for there were no free schools in England at that time. Into this household I canze on the tenth day of October, 1854, during the reign of good Queen Victoria. I remember the stone floors, the open fireplace where Mother did all her cooking, and the hob-where the kettles were placed. There were no stoves and we had no ovens, so all our bread and meats were baked at the public bakery. As soon as I was old enough I was sent to an Infants' School, for which Mother paid a penny each week. This school was similar to the kindergarten, but its main purpose was to care for the little ones so that the mothers and older ones in the family would be free to find work, I remember that we were taught to knit and to sew. Father and Mother were both members of the Church at the time of their marriage, and at this time he had become president of the branch. From the first they had planned on emigrating to Utah; but as the children came and expenses grew, they found it impossible to save even the small amount for their passage money. There was only one course open for us ever to realize our dreams. Father borrowed money enough to take himself alone to America. He went as far west as Philadelphia, where he found work on a fine estate of an old Quaker gentleman, Mr. William Sellars. It took him over three long years to pay off his debts and to save money enough to pay the passage of his loved ones. Meanwhile, in England, Mother worked and hoped and prayed, saving what she could of her small earnings.
THEN, one wonderful day, the postman came with the letter containing the money which was to take us to Father and America. How impatient I was to go! So much to be done, so many little things for older heads to worry about, that it seemed to my childish mind that we never, never would begin our journey. But one day we finally found ourselves, bag and baggage, on the docks and ready to embark. Even then there was some last errand that Mother had to run, and thinking that she would be back in a few moments, she left us huddled among the trunks and bundles. The minutes lengthened into an anxious hour and then in spite of tears and protests we were bundled into a small boat and carried out to the big ship, William Tapscott, which rode at anchor in the bay, ready to set sail for America. Sailing time and no mother! As the shadows lengthened, our fears and anxiety increased. Then, just a few minutes before the anchor was raised, a boat drew up alongside and a number of people were hurried on board. There was Mother, her dear face white with worry and anxiety. Soon we were safe in each other's arms, too happy for anything but tears.
There were not beds enough to go around, so I was assigned to sleep with a big, fat woman. I undressed and climbed into the berth. There wasn't any too much room for me, and when Mrs. Avoirdupois decided to come to bed she stuck a hard roll of her belongings under my head, squeezed me tight against the wall, and was soon sleeping. She woke up once long enough to roll over and say, "Can't ye shut up? I wants me sleep." To this day I hate to sleep next to a wall. The roll of the ship, the strange squeaks and gratings and other noises and the smothered feeling and the discomfort of that hard roll I was obliged to use for a pillow, made too deep an impression to be easily overcome.
MY recollection of the boat consists of long passageways, row upon row of berths, and a railing where I could stand and watch those on the deck below us. One day I saw them eating pancakes. After the hard ship-biscuit, which we ate in lieu of bread, how good they looked. Mother prepared all of our meals, but I missed the bread. After watching the feast on the lower deck the ship-biscuit seemed harder and drier than ever. One day we were able to purchase some fresh supplies from a passing vessel. Among them was some fresh bread. No pie or cake or candy ever tasted quite so good to me.
One day in mid-ocean the ship sprang a leak. The anchor was lowered while the pumps were set to work. I heard a sailor report that the trunk room was being flooded. Happy childhood! Little sensed I of the real danger that threatened us. It was barely noon. I went by myself, knelt down, and with full childish faith I prayed: "Our Father in heaven, please don't let my new dress get wet." And I finished up with "Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. Amen." I think the listening angels must have smiled at that prayer; but in spite of the fact that my dress was in the very bottom of the trunk it was not damaged in the least.
We found so many interesting things to do that the voyage of six weeks did not seem nearly so irksome to us as it did to the grownups; but when someone shouted, "Land, I see land," I believe Columbus himself couldn't have been much happier than we were. Many were crying, though of course I couldn't then understand why. What a bustle, packing up our things we had used during the voyage, running errands and watching the sailors at their work. We were landed at a place called Castle Garden. I remember that we stayed there over night. Father came here to meet us. For three years I had dreamed of seeing him again; but when he came I failed at first to recognize him. We were all very happy, but again I could not see what there was to cry about.
WHEN we got off the train at Philadelphia, I saw for the first time street cars drawn by horses. As Mr. Sellars' estate was some miles out from the city, we boarded one of these funny-looking little cars and away we went. For the first time I saw green fields and rolling meadows and heard the birds sing. The trees were all in blossom. The meadows were a rolling carpet of green and gold. It seemed as though all the birds in the world were singing a welcome to us. Gone were the grimy factory days. Now Mother could stay at home, and we had Father with us once more. How we reveled in the beauties of the country?the birds, the flowers and the woods, and the blackberry hedges! I heard the frogs singing in the swamp, and the owls and the whippoorwills. My bedroom window overlooked the woods; and on a still, moonlit night I could hear the water in the mill race, singing over the stones.
We children joined a Sunday School class, and were allowed to take home books from the library. I remember one of these especially, "Little Jane." Little Jane was a very, very good little girl, who lived with a very, very sinful family. Besides being imposed upon in fifty different ways, she was never allowed to go to church. All day Sunday she baked and brewed and stewed enough food to last that family the rest of the week. I felt sorry for her. "I'll not do that when I have a home," I promised myself. "I won't do any cooking on Sunday." It is a rule that I have since followed, though it had its source in the impossible "Little Jane."
One of the most beautiful memories that I have is of the Sabbath peace that blessed our dear home. Our family group would gather around the grate fire and listen to the wonderful stories that Mother would tell us. The songs we sang: old English ballads, "Lord Bateman" and "The Mistletoe Bough," especially, "I Think When I Read That Sweet Story of Old," "Happy Day," and other good old hymns. The stories of Jesus, as Mother told them, made us feel that God was a loving Father who loved little children more than anyone else. The preachers of those days were of the fire and brimstone order; and I used to sit in church with every hair standing on end from sheer terror of the awful pictures they drew of hell and the judgment day. Soon after listening to one such terrorizer, a violent storm broke over the country. As one peal of thunder topping another boomed across the heavens, I fled to my room and prayed wildly: "O Lord, it's the end of the world. Please don't burn me up in everlasting hell fire. I won't grumble when I have to do the dishes any more, an' I won't ask for two pieces of cake. I know I'm awful wicked. But I'll try so hard to be good." I am glad for the sake of little children that Christian views have changed, and that this type of sermon isn't to be heard nowadays.
School Days
IN the fall my sisters and I were sent to school. Quite a different school from the school which you children attend nowadays. Our teacher was very tall, very severe looking and very conscientious. She neither spared the rod nor spoiled the child. Small chance there was for shirking under her eagle eye, and though we were whipped for many things one would not dream of whipping a child for today, we learned many a wholesome lesson while in her charge.
There being no school on Saturdays, we spent many wonderful, golden days out in the woods gathering hickory nuts, walnuts and chestnuts to store up for the winter fireside. One Saturday while on one of these expeditions we wandered out of the woods into a place known as "The Meadows." But how unfamiliar was the scene which met our childish eyes. Instead of the carpet of rolling green we had been wont to see, was an army of white tents and, out in an open space, companies of soldiers all in blue uniforms were marching and countermarching and being drilled in all the maneuvers of war. We watched them with fascinated eyes, until a bugle call and lowering of the Stars and Stripes finished the drill for the day. When we told Mother about it she said that there was war between the North and the South and that these were President Lincoln's soldiers preparing to go out and fight for the Union. Mother glanced at Father's picture and looked anxious and worried. "Will Father have to go?" we asked. "Perhaps," she answered. "This is our country now."
MOTHER spent much of her time these days sewing, making dainty little white garments, lace-trimmed and tucked. And as often as she sewed she would tell us more wonderful stories. These days her smile was very tender and sweet, but I often saw a look of pain flit across her face as she looked towards the meadows where the men other mothers had borne were marching away in the glory of their young manhood, many of them to die for their country. Oh, it is hard for mothers to feel the thrill, or to appreciate the glory of war! Too well they know the bitter sacrifice.
Vacation Days
SPRING came and with it the last day of school. What excitement there was. This was the day on which we were put on show before our family and friends. We were put through our paces by the school committee. Awards of merit and prizes were given to lucky ones. I was to "speak a piece," so I must look extra fine for the occasion. These were the days of pinafores and pantalets and for this event my pinafore was new. My pantalets, as an added touch, had some lace, intended for quite another purpose, basted to the bottoms for trimming. Away I went, proud as a peacock, and took my place among the other children who sat like little ram rods of propriety, hands neatly folded, faces to the front, wearing for this day alone, expressions that would have graced the faces of an angel choir. When my name was called I arose, gave a satisfied glance of pride at my new dress and the lace that ruffled so daintily on the pantalets beneath it, walked primly up to the front, made my best bow and then began: "England's sons?" I had not gone very far when something slipped around my ankle. A stolen glance showed a dangling end of lace. Then I saw Tom Shore grin. Up went my head. Not for worlds would I quit! So I finished my lines in a round of hearty applause, though the lace slipped farther and farther. "That was fine," someone whispered. Then Tom Shore, with a voice that sounded like gleeful satisfaction, made me feel like fighting by saying, "Ya, but you nearly lost yer pants." Then came the speeches and awards. Balm to sore mortification and hurt pride, I was awarded a Bible for being the "best student in the school." Its leaves are worn and yellow with age, but I still have it among my most treasured possessions.
SOON after school closed my brother Willie was born. My elder sister, Rose, did her best to take Mother's place with the housework, and then when Mother was strong again there was the new baby to tend, so Martha and I were left pretty much to our own devices. It was early summer and haying time, and we fairly reveled in the joys of the great outdoors. I can still smell the sweet warm fragrance of the freshly cut hay, as it lay drying in the summer sunshine. How thrilled we were when we were allowed to ride atop of the great wobbly loads as they were hauled to the stack yard! The hay was unloaded and pitched into great, carefully rounded stacks. The stack yard proved a very fascinating place to play and all went well until one day we found a ladder against one of the very tallest stacks. The temptation to climb to the top was not to be resisted, so up we went like Jack in the Beanstalk. Then after a few breath-taking, frightened moments, we found ourselves on top of the stack. Again like Jack, in a wonderful fairyland of forest and castle, broad fields and meadows stretching away as far as our delighted eyes could see. We played in blissful contentment for some time, catching the different colored grasshoppers or lying on our backs finding cloud pictures. When we grew tired and were ready to get down, somehow the green, sloping sides of the stack looked much more inviting than did the ladder. It goes without saying that we slid down. The thrill was perfect and we carried enough loose hay down with us to make a perfect landing. Of course every joy, especially when you're little, must come to an end. Ours came in the shape of an entirely unsympathetic grown-up in the person of my father. "You youngsters keep off that hay," he cried, picking up a pitchfork and disappearing around a neighboring stack. Why did grown-ups make it so hard for children anyhow? They didn't seem to know what real fun was. Half in rebellion, half in reluctance to abandon immediately the thing that had given us so much fun, up the ladder we climbed again and down we came sliding. Somehow the zest was gone and this time the landing was anything but perfect; but the spanking which we promptly received was. I think Father gave it to us more in sheer relief that our necks weren't broken than as a punishment for ruining a haystack. We were sent to bed in disgrace and without our supper. It was stern justice, but we deserved it. We cried and compared the marks which the sting of the willow had left on our bodies. I had the most because I was older than Martha and was expected to set her a good example. As it grew dark Mother brought us up some bread and milk. We ate and were comforted. Truly repentant and at peace with the whole world, we soon fell asleep. We had learned our lesson. When Father said a thing he meant it, and never again did we wilfully disobey him.
One day soon after this we were playing in the meadows where we saw some fishermen with rods over their shoulders, on their way to the mill pond to fish. This promptly suggested a new idea. "Let's go fishing," I cried. "Let's," cried Martha joyously. So in just a few minutes, proudly carrying green willow poles, some string and bent pins, we were marching down to the mill race. We sat down in the middle of a narrow foot-board which spanned the race and promptly threw in our lines. We did not even get a nibble, but we were having real fun in pretending when in some way Martha lost her balance and fell into the water below. I tried to reach her, but failing this I ran frantically along the bank calling, "Martha, O Martha." Then sensing that I couldn't get her, I ran screaming for Mother. She heard me and came running towards me. Into the stream she rushed, only to mire helplessly in the soft mud bottom. Someone pulled her back and when she saw Martha come up to the surface of the water only to sink out of sight, she fainted. Someone had gone for Father. Meanwhile, the Irish gardener, having heard our excited cries, had hurried over, his rake still in his hand. He waded in and reached with his rake until he caught Martha's clothes. Father came up just in time to take her apparently lifeless body in his arms. He carried her swiftly to the carriage house and worked frantically over her. Soon she gave a weak moan. "Where's your mother?" he said to me. "Dead, down by the willows," I sobbed. Father, working desperately with Martha, cried, "Run child, run and stay with her until I can come." When I reached the willows Mother had regained consciousness and I cried, "Mother, Oh Mother, come quick, Martha is alive." But poor Mother only shook her head and moaned, "No she isn't, no she isn't; I saw her go down and she won't come up any more." Even now I can see her hanging on to the fence, too weak to stand alone, pulling herself along back to the house. It was a long time before she recovered from the shock. Sometimes at night she would steal out of the house and we would find her walking the banks of the stream, wringing her hands and moaning and crying for Martha. Father would lead her back to the house and put Martha in her arms. Then she would be comforted. She gradually grew better, but it took a long time.
Preparation
THE months that followed were fairly happy and prosperous ones and it began to look as though our dream of gathering with the Saints in Utah might find an early fulfilment. Mother's sister had already emigrated; Father's brother had reached America and was living in Philadelphia. Then my brother Eddie was born. Welcome as his coming was, of course, it meant extra expense and a little harder struggle to put by even a small amount. Then Father was kicked by a horse and his leg severely injured?an injury which was followed by an attack of rheumatism. He found it very painful and difficult to attend to even a small part of his work. One day a friend, seeing the difficulty, said, "Mr. Lane, I know what will cure your rheumatism. You get some hartshorn, camphor, laudanum and sweet oil and rub it on your leg and it will cure it." I stood by his side, and he turned and said, "Eliza, run to the drug store and get it for me." I write this incident, trivial in itself, to illustrate how vividly children receive impressions. I've never forgotten a single ingredient of that liniment in all these years.
Mother would rub Father's limbs with this liniment and he did get well for a short time at least. But a swim in the creek at the close of a hard day's work gave him a heavy chill. In spite of all Mother could do, he grew rapidly worse. His rheumatism came back, more severe this time, afflicting his heart and kidneys. Three doctors, under Mr. Sellars' instructions, held a consultation and on the morning of my ninth birthday, they took him away to the hospital, in Philadelphia. "Why Father," I cried, "don't you know it's my birthday and you are going away." "Yes, dear child," he said, "and that will be something for you to remember me by."
Mother was nearing another confinement, and under the circumstances she was denied the solace and comfort of being able to see him or be near him. Not more than twice a week was she able to go into Philadelphia to visit him and take him clean clothing. One day at the hospital, Father asked for his brother. As soon as the message reached Uncle Alfred, he hurried to the hospital, only to be refused admittance as it was past visiting hours. "But he's my brother, he's sent for me and needs me," and brushing past the attendant he hurried to Father's bedside. "William, shall I send for Ellen?" he asked. "No, Alfred, I'm going. There isn't time." For some minutes they talked. A woman, whose duty was to administer comfort to the dying, came into the room, and true to her faith and her duty, said, "My good man, I hope you have made your peace with Jesus. I hope you have not left it till this late hour." Father smiled faintly and whispered, "Oh no."
When I saw Uncle Alfred coming through our gate, childlike, I ran to meet him. "How is Father?" I cried. "Your father is dead," was his answer. Not sensing the terrible significance of this news, I ran to Mother, and cried out in unthinking innocence, "Mother, Father is dead." Then I saw her face whiten in agony as she slipped from her chair in a faint.
PEOPLE were very kind to us. We were almost entirely without means. After the funeral, Mr. Sellars held a conference with Mother and Uncle Alfred. He told her as gently as he could that another man was to take Father's place and that she would have to find quarters elsewhere, but he had made arrangements for her to go to the hospital for her confinement. Rose made her home with Mr. Sellars' family. Martha went to some of his friends by the name of Leisering; the two boys were placed in an orphans' home, and I was to be sent to Philadelphia to Mrs. Bancroft, a married daughter of Mr. Sellars'. How well I remember that parting?Mother laying her dear hands on my head in wordless blessing?the sudden wild grief that took possession of me. "Oh Mother! Mother! I don't want to go," I sobbed. "I don't want to go. I don't care if we don't have anything to eat but bread, I want to stay. Please, Mother, let me stay with you." "My poor child," she gently answered, "but I haven't even bread for you." As we both cried, I began to sense that my grief distressed Mother, and that I must be brave and do my bit to help, so wiping my eyes and trying to smile I went off to Philadelphia.
MRS. BANCROFT lived in a beautiful home on Vine Street. She had me sleep with the cook, and gave me as a household duty the task of helping in the kitchen. Somehow the cook resented this very much, and was anything but agreeable to me. In fact, she made my life so unpleasant that kind Mrs. Bancroft moved me from the cook's room and gave me a trundle bed to sleep in and changed my work from the kitchen to the dining room and nursery. In spite of the kindness of this splendid Quaker family, I had many bitter hours, and many nights when my pillow would be wet with homesick tears. I went to school part of the time, a girls' school, as then the boys and girls met in different buildings. I made friends with a girl whose brother was an officer in the Union army. She was very proud of him and we had many pleasant talks together. Then for the first time I heard the muffled drum as it beat its tattoo to the slow measured tread of the feet that carried some patriot to his last resting place. As the war went on, the sound of the drums became more frequent, and soon not a day passed that its mournful roll failed to be heard in the streets of Philadelphia. My young friend's brother was among those who laid down their lives for their country. We went to see him as he lay in state in his uniform of blue, under the flag he had given his young life to defend.
LIVING in Philadelphia, and working for her living, was an older half-sister, Harriet, a daughter of Father's first wife, who died when she was two years old. She used to come to see me. Her visits were very welcome, you may be sure. She never failed to bring an orange or a bit of candy or some little gifts that she knew would gladden my childish heart. Uncle Alfred lived there, and though I had heard him describe his home, I had never seen it. One day I decided to go and visit my Uncle's family, so off I set after I had prayed earnestly to be shown the way. It was a very astonished uncle and aunt that I saw as I walked up to their door, for find it I truly did, though other than my prayer I asked no directions.
AFTER baby Charles was born, Mother rented a small room in Philadelphia. Then came the yearning for her children! What was she to do? Mr. Sellars offered the only solution that she saw possible. Feeling sure that Mother would see the wisdom of his decision, he had had papers made out "binding out" the older children of the family until they should become of age, and brought them to Mother to sign. Poor Mother! Mr. Sellars had been kind. She begged time to consider his offer, so he left, promising to call the next day for the signed paper. Her dreams of going to Utah seemed utterly impossible. She sought Divine help in her great need. "The dead do come back when there is real need for it," said Mother, in telling her experiences in the years that followed. "Three times that night your father appeared in my room and each time he said, 'Don't bind the children.' I was not asleep. I actually saw him." Mr. Sellars tried to get her to change her mind, and became almost exasperated when she steadily refused. "What are you going to do?" Mother thought of Utah and all it meant to her, and raising her head with a certain conviction, she answered him. "I am going home." He said no more.
There was a branch of the Church here at this time, to which Mother and Father had been able to go only occasionally, as it had meant a long ride on the cars for them. The children, rather than receive no religious training, had attended a Presbyterian Sunday School. Mother had said with firm conviction, "I am going home." But as far as human eyes could see, "going home" meant insurmountable difficulties. Once more "man's extremity proved God's opportunity." While Mother sat in Sunday meeting the president of the branch arose and announced that on the following Wednesday a company of emigrants was leaving for Utah, and that means had been provided for Sister Lane and her children to go with them. Mother's prayer had received its answer.
Orson Pratt and Hyrum Clawson were the speakers, and after the meeting was over, they both came to Mother. Orson Pratt placed $2.50 in her hand saying, "I am on my way to England. I have enough money to get me there, and I am sure you need this worse than I do." Brother Clawson gave her $5.00. They shook hands with her and spoke words of encouragement and cheer. Some of the sisters, Sister Ware and Sister Fenton especially, were willing and anxious to help. There was much hurried preparation to be ready in time. Mrs. Bancroft cried when Mother came for me. "She is so dependable," she told Mother, "that I can trust her implicitly in all things." That was a splendid compliment to live up to.
Then I came in sensible contact with some of the bitterness that existed against the Church in those days. When Mr. Sellars saw our arrangement for leaving, and came to tell Mother goodbye, he said, "Well, I'm glad you are going back to England instead of with those 'Mormons.' Had you decided to go with them, I certainly would have taken steps to have those children taken away from you." Mother did not tell him that "home" meant Utah. She was soon on her way to New York. We each had a bundle to look after. I'm sure Mother found it quite a handful to keep track of us all?Rosie, Eliza, Martha, Willie, Eddie, and baby Charlie?to say nothing of the bundles. Here we took the train for the little town of Wyoming on the banks of the muddy Missouri river, where we were to wait until a company of emigrants from England joined us before proceeding west by ox team.
The Long Trail
HOW vividly I remember the little town of Wyoming on the Missouri, just one thousand miles from Utah! What a change from the green woods and meadows of Pennsylvania. So desolate and wild. The Missouri, just one big river of mud, flowing out of a somewhere, sluggishly past, and on into a nowhere! "However can we wash our clothes in this," was my uppermost thought and I was really greatly relieved when I found that all the washing was to be done at a spring pleasantly situated in a group of trees, near the camp. Here also we had our first experience at sleeping in the great out-of-doors?a rather terrifying one until we got used to it. Every single night, it seemed to me, it stormed. The inky darkness would be broken by sudden, blinding flashes of lightning, and the steady howl of the storm, by roars of rolling thunder. The seven of us huddled even closer together, but not even tent wall and bedclothes could shut out the blinding flashes of light, nor deaden but very little the terrific claps of thunder. Then, one awful night, the tent blew down, the pole falling across Mother's neck in such a way that she was left utterly powerless, either to call for help or to assist herself. She must have soon died had not Rose, sensing her peril, managed to move the heavy pole in such a way that her neck was freed.
Supplies were issued from a store house centrally located. We did our cooking over bonfires. We lived like this about a month or six weeks. Then we were joined by a company of Saints who were emigrating from England.
One day came the glad shout, "The ox-teams are coming, the ox-teams are coming!" Everybody turned out to give them welcome, as they lumbered slowly into camp?a long train of covered wagons, each drawn by yokes of oxen. This was the train which was to take us to Utah, each outfit being furnished by men who had been called on a mission, by President Young, to meet the emigrants and bring them on to Utah. We were all happy and anxious to get started on our way, little sensing, any of us, what a long, tedious journey it was to be, and little sensing the trials and hardships we were to encounter, but bravely ready for whatever fate held in store for us.
The train was in charge of Brother Warren Snow. Our outfit was in charge of Brother Frank Cundick. Besides our seven, there was a feeble, old lady, sick and ailing, who was assigned to ride with us. Baby Charlie was assigned to Rose's special care, and little Eddie to mine. They were both beautiful children, rosy and healthy, giving every promise of growing to a strong and sturdy manhood. After what seemed many days, we bade Wyoming goodbye, and turned our faces westward.
Conditions were too crowded for us all to ride at the same time, so those who were able, took turns in walking. We would fill our aprons with dry buffalo chips as we walked, or with anything that would burn, and these would be used to make our camp fire. Then, one day, Mother discovered that the bundle containing Rose's clothing and shoes had been left behind, with other luggage belonging to the train. Poor Rose! Her feet grew sore and cracked. One day I heard her scream, and running to her, found that she had stepped upon a prickly pear. The blood was falling in drops from her wounded foot; she would not let me pull the thorns out. I helped her all that I could and finally we hobbled into camp. Her foot was growing more painful. "That cactus must come out," I thought, and then aloud, I cried, "Look Rose, Indians, quick," and as she turned her head to look, I jerked the cactus out of her foot, before she had even time to say "ouch." My own fingers were filled with thorns, but we soon got them out, then found Mother. We cooked our meal over the campfire and went to bed. In spite of the strange night cries of prowling beasts and birds, we slept soundly through the cool, sweet night. The next morning we were up at sunrise, fresh and ready for the long day's march. Rose's foot was still somewhat sore. "Do you know," said Mother, "that last night I dreamed that your shoes were coming and that they will be here today. I am sure they will." To our great joy they did come, along with the rest of the missing luggage, save some that had been stolen. Mother's dreams often came true.
Our money, fifty or sixty dollars, all we had in the world, was missing. Then one night Mother dreamed that she saw it sewed up in a feather bed. When she awoke she arose and looked for it, and found it just as her dream had shown her.
One day the old lady with us died, the first of our band who didn't finish the "journey through." They made her a grave at the side of the trail. Then watering places grew scarce. And we were obliged to buy our drinking water at 25c per keg. It was not always good water at that, for dysentery broke out among us, a condition which proved to be very serious to many of us. The woman in the wagon ahead of us died. Mother was very ill, and so were the two children. Brother John Kay, a young man returning from a mission, was stricken. A side was taken from a wagon to make him a coffin. For little Charlie there was not a thing that could be utilized to make him even a rude coffin. Mother tore a shawl in half, and we left him sleeping by the long trail. Later, the other half was used for little Eddie.
Sick, disheartened, and weary, we had to carry on. I remember one cold, wet day, in particular: We had kept huddled up for warmth in the wagon all day, while the rain beat its monotonous tattoo on our canvas roof. When we stopped for the night, fires were out of the question. We were hungry and went to bed crying for something to eat. Next morning Mother climbed out of the wagon. Through the drizzling rain and mist she saw a little old shack, with smoke pushing its way out of the chimney. She made her way to it and as the door opened to her knock, there greeted her a rush of warm air, fragrant with the odor of frying meat. "Will you sell me some bread?" she asked of the woman who had answered the door. "We haven't any to spare," she replied, but seeing how sick and weak Mother looked, she said, "We are just going to have a bite, come in and eat with us." "I cannot eat; my children are hungry." "You shall eat," she insisted, "and you shall have bread for your little ones even if we have to go without." When Mother came back, we were all out on the wagon tongue. She broke the bread in chunks and handed us each a piece.
Eddie died as we were nearing Green River. This final stroke proved too much for Mother, and she became very, very ill. One day, as Rose and I came near the wagon, we heard voices. "Yes, Sister Lane, your children will be cared for." The wild fear that arose in my breast seemed to smother me. Baby Charlie and Eddie, and now Mother! Taking my sister by the hand, we ran off some distance into the sage brush and kneeling down we prayed in all our childish anguish, "Please, Heavenly Father, don't let our mother die. Please make her better, in the name of Jesus. Amen." We felt sure then that she would get well. Next morning she was very much better, and after some days she was trying again to take her share of the burdens.
One day we passed large, white saleratus beds. Mother had read of saleratus biscuits, and as we were nearing our journey's end, food supplies were running rather low. Mother decided we were going to have hot biscuits, so with a zeal not backed up by knowledge, she made them. We ate them, for the bitter flavor was entirely outdone by their delectable rich orange coloring.
We had not much trouble in fording the streams as it was autumn, and rivers were comparatively low. A preceding train had made a good ford over one river, the Platte, I believe. This was spanned by a toll bridge, but the keeper refused to let the train (Homer Duncan's, by the way) cross it, not even to carry their flour across, giving one flimsy excuse after another. Anyway, the men grew disgusted, and though the keeper tried to dissuade them, they dug a roadway down either bank and established a very good ford, one used by all succeeding trains, whether 'Mormon' or not, much to the discomfiture of the toll keeper.
The last day of our journey our food gave out, and we became really hungry. Towards evening we entered Emigration canyon. As we came into the valley, we could see in the distance the glow of the big bonfires that had been lighted to welcome us. About ten o'clock we stopped at the square where the City and County Building now stands. Such a welcome as we received! Such a laughing and crying, such hugs and kisses! Soon we were seated around the big fire, while willing hands, backed by warm hearts, served us with everything that the little settlement afforded in the way of delicious hot food. There were mashed potatoes, and gravy, chicken, vegetables, pie and cake. Then when we just couldn't cram another delicious morsel, I noticed, by the light of the fire, a tempting green slope. "Come on," I said to the girls, "let's roll down here!" and roll we did, to our heart's content, entirely unreproved by the older folk. They were "home" at last and too happy to notice us.