[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 724 | Special Feature | Be a Professional Homemaker, My Daughter Lillian | Y. Bradshaw]
And with that thought I actually became transfused with new life and began making the change from housewife to professional homemaker. Looking at my kitchen I saw it through different eyes. I couldn't believe the disorder in terms of what would have been done at the hospital. Pots and pans were unbelievably far from the center of preparation. With a sense of being alive again I thought in terms of casseroles being prepared, the making of bread, cakes being baked. Pots Lillian Y. Bradshaw and pans were rearranged and shifted to a different cupboard, closer to the flour and sugar supplies. The mixer was placed on a counter. Minutes were added to my day—five minutes to be exact in baking a cake. Watching the clock, I began to calculate how many minutes it took to prepare certain dishes. Saving time became a game. In most cases I was amazed to find that what seemed to take hours, in reality took only minutes. Menumaking had been important to keep costs down at the hospital, menu-making at home became important. A shopping list completed the task. I used to love to work in disorder, though at the time I didn't know it was disorder. I can well remember my sewing room when I was first married and had the luxury of an extra bedroom as my sewing room. Patterns, needles, threads, scissors, material lay out all over just as I left them. Sometimes while making a dress it would stay that way for days. And I thought I was saving time. Then your father one day commented how office desks were always cleared before the office closed and he thought I would enjoy sewing more if I put every- 

725 October 1970

 thing away neatly too! Though he never knew it that made me angry. How could he know what would save time or be better in our home! He had a secretary. How could he know about cut knees, and jelly fingers, and arguments stopping any sewing just as you got started? There I was making excuses again! From then on sewing scraps were gathered neatly and everything put in its own place. The material pieces to be worked on first were put apart from those to be worked on later, and the place on the pattern directions carefully underlined so that upon returning I would know immediately where to begin. Through your father's eyes, mine were opened to things as they were, and then to think professionally how they could be. Seeking to be professional in any work needing to be done in the home I little by little acquired proper tools for myself. Now minutes really began to total up. Before, I had felt time being taken from me! My children, my home, everything was taking my time away from me. With time created, I now could give time. Just aS you save money by pennies to make dollars to be able to do special things, just so you save minutes to make hours to create time to do special things. A housewife becomes a professional the moment she begins to create time by being organized. She does not expect to find time, for time is never found lying around waiting to be picked up. Minutes are saved by being organized. 726 Let me give you a few ideas of how to save time and then you, too, will know by doing someday in your own home. I told myself if I were leaving my home to go to work somewhere, looking attractive would [ be necessary. And so I arose with f or before your father in the morning, put on my makeup, and combed my hair. This was the first thing in looking the part of a professional homemaker. Dressing and making the bed were accomplished before entering the kitchen to prepare breakfast. I have taught you children to do the same. Already you have the first step to being efficiently organized. Breakfast prepared and eaten as a family, beds all made and the house put in order before you left for school has been the second step. Shortly thereafter I do some preliminary preparation for dinner that evening. With the home basically in order, you will then find that the rest of the day can be organized as you desire. Your husband is off to a_ stringently regulated day, but you will be free to choose what you will do. If it's Relief Society—you're ready to go. If it's a new baby to care for—he may be quite determined in his demands—it is your choice to care for him! Community work, taking a class in adult education, preparing a lesson, you're ready! If an emergency comes up, you're available to change plans quickly. Time is not wrapping you around its big finger, you are the master of your own time. for me, happy play for them— Wwe tried it for a year, Though the ther really 800d look told da nursery right equipment was Part of the answer, Your father and I made some for our Own backyard. I should Bea ProfessionaI Homemaker That's exactly what all my been about. That was the reason for Setting mar- October 1970 recess out on the play equipment. Slowly—by trial and error—I found what the span of interest was and kept just short of the maximum so as always to have you want more. If I were a teacher in school I would have the next day's work all outlined, and so in my home—professional that I was trying to become—I prepared for "school" activity the next day also. It really took only about 'ten minutes to decide what to do. With the Children's Friend as it is today I would tear out the sheets of activity and a story and put a child's name at the top just as a teacher would do. This kept it important in the child's mind to complete the assignment. I nowing fairly well what the baby's schedule would be—playtime (recess) was gauged to coincide with feeding and bathing so as to leave me free to give full attention to him. Even while the "school" was in operation it left me free to fold diapers, bake, sew. It is true there were many interruptions of "Mommy, can you help me?" or "Mommy, me," or "So and so has my crayon and won't give it back," but feeling the security of knowing what they were going to do, peace began to permeate the atmosphere. It gave me opportunity and time to teach rules for living and they learned them with their own brothers and sisters first. That which your father taught at family home evening I would reinforce into real situations. You learned to share and forgive with each other first. 728 so and so hit How much easier for you to carry out with your friends thereafter. I used a small bell to signal a change of activity and so when things needed rearranging it could be done quickly and easily. As an example a _ schedule might go like this. 9:00 School starts—Prayer and pledge of allegiance to flag. Play with clay—Make a boat, an animal and one of something you like. Color a_picture—(About now baby needs care while they color.) Recess—Play time out on equipment. (Bathe and feed baby.) Snack time — (Prepared ahead of time the children could serve themselves if baby was still fussy.) Story time — (This time I loved most of all — I could teach so much with a good story. Sometimes they were short stories followed with a story that was continued from one day to the next.) Draw picture to tell about story. Recess Dot to dot or cutting out paper dolls, T. V. Program, or whatever fitted the child's age. Use of T. V. Programs now, such as Sesame Street, would be marvelous if turned on and off at given times. 9:05 9:20 9:30 10:00 10:15 10:30 10:40 11:00 Each day a learning experience with real meaning was given, such as learning to write your name, or finding a bug and studying it—how many legs it had, taking care of pets. The possibilities are unlimited and traits freed from the Prison o; Actually it Into a Pattern that Which must be done anyway Beg ProfessionaI Homemaker hour Will be yours to talk U converse With a at the first of the IMportant this wij] be fore Supper was devoted to enJoying YOu children wi October 1970 the Subsequent attacks Of "outsides: ur © 80ne again Saying "Sorry Mom, Just h » that brea 800d," most Perfect of all Work in the wor d Now brin; all yo N Your own Ought € only important fee]. Not planned too? Y, ing that doesn't fade as a Mirage. Only at home before your own hearth; ve and th all your OWn. At thirst quenched I in fulfillment. WHY POETRY? The flame of Phlox I nd the Molten color Inte amet ue —_ f the Virginia creepe C,; OoMMunicatin love or wound? Righten my rottage door Enough to speak Our thought apes hang hea; the vine Or read an ther's as our own? Awaiting Sweetness of To soar with musi e Preserving ettle. Eap in dance In the field fr °sh windrows onder Paintings —weep with prose,, nil are Curing Exult in drama? N the sun Along the avenue snes fe "re Beauty Poplars 'are dropping Why, then the poet? Eaf-gold i —_ His to Magnify a SuNbeam Pon the Autumn floor Till its focus burns into a Soul, Yes, the m turity Of seed Oncisely Setting It afire lories with ripeness ith truth—the Poet's goa) —