[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 722 | Special Feature | Church Magazine | Conversion Rules]
[Church Magazine Conversion Rules]

723 7 Be a PROFESSIONAL: Homemaker, Taking you back to school the other night, sweet daughter nearly twenty, we talked of school and working and future plans of marriage. You said, "But, Mom, I lke to work. I like the excitement of it." I heard the echo of my own voice just that many years ago as I said to your father, "But honey, I want the challenge working outside the house would give me. I would feel like I'm doing something. I want to be someone, not just lost in diapers and dishes and scrubbing floors." And then I had bitterly added, "Anyone can do that!" I felt again a warm breeze blow a wisp of hair across my face as your father left for work that morning. Diaper and another diaper and another diaper blew in the Hawaiian breeze and tears streamed down my cheek. Thumb tacked—that's just how I felt—thumb tacked to my home! Everytime I wanted to go out I had to weigh the cost of baby sitting, if I could find a baby sitter, against the food budget or think of little hands tugging at my skirts and crying to go home while I shopped just for the necessities. 724 Resentment, acrid and hurting, choked all the beauty of my island home from my heart and mind and I longed to be free to go to work again. I had known the important feeling of being a head dietitian at one of the hospitals before I was married. I knew the feel of money of my own jingling in my pockets—to be free like my husband, talking with new vital people everyday. Just the luxury of talking real talk would seem like heaven and having luncheons. Which didn't have to be accounted for out of the family food budget! Like the diapers whipping vigorously, the harder my mind wrestled and twisted and thrashed as thoughts breezed through, the more I felt helplessly pinned. It was the treadmill of everyday blending into the last and so it seemed it would be forever! Emotionally spent and hurting all over with "outside-itis," out of the clear blue—too audibly to deny—came the thought quiet and pleading, '""Have you forgotten? Have you forgotten so soon?" Somersaulting one upon the other came thoughts of the prayers I once asked to find just the right man for me, then the prayer for a temple marriage, My Daughter and then prayers that followed later that a healthy child, then another and another be born. Then sobbing in humility for all I had forgotten, I determined from that moment—if I could not go out to find the business world—I would make our home my business and bring all I had learned into my home. I would find the excitement there. And if I couldn't find it I would create it. The same thought would go into running our home eflficiently as if I were still in the business world. I realized for the first time that my home held all the possibilities of achievement I could hope to find outside in any field.