Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" HAWAII: Hawaii is a group, or rather a string of sunny islands of a gentle tropical climate... Embosomed midst the placid waters of the Pacific, 2,100 miles southwest from San Francisco and nearly the same distance north from Tahiti. An offspring of the sea, the result of volcanic unheavals, their origin verified by extinct craters fastened here and there amidst the hills and on the mountain heights of the group, and by the still blazing fires of that molten lake — the fiery Kilauea. Of the ten islands two are little more than barren rocks, two are used exclusively as cattle ranges, and the six principal ones are luxurious in bloom and beauty. —M. A. J. Lambert THE QUERY Shadow and sun are alike to the Giver! His hand in wisdom appointeth the way, The glory He willeth beyond the dark river, Will solve all the mystery shrouding today..,. —H. W. Naisbitt THE WOMEN OF AMERICA: I think it is not strange that we pause for a moment in this enlightened day to pay a tender tribute of praise to the silent suffering hearts that have labored, yearned and died for the cause of Liberty and the prosperity of our nation. Labored in silence and devotion, caring for no other honor than to be worthy wives and mothers of our heroes and noble men. Since the day when the Queen of Castile offered her jewels to the dreamer of Genoa to carry him out into the sea of darkness, into the unknown world, the patient, loving sacrifices of women have not only followed but lead in every movement for the cause of humanity, and the glory of the New World —Emily Ray RELIEF SOCIETY IN SAN FRANCISCO: Feeling sure the sisters in Zion would be pleased to hear something of the mission work here in California, I shall... Tell of the Relief Society organized by President E. H. Nye, June 3, 1897.... Sister W. A. Rattenbery was oppointed President; Isabella Y. Sewell First Counselor; Harriet Simpkins Second Counselor; Chircazade Woodward, treasurer; Ida M. Sarll, secretary and teacher. There are about twenty-eight members in all, and a more earnest, loving band of sisters could not be found on this beautiful earth.... Much good is being done, several quilts have been made, besides the mending being done each week for the Elders. | —Ida M. Sarll ADVERTISEMENT: Mrs. Kate Bridewell Anderson, formerly of New Orleans, and recently of Ogden, has opened a vocal studio in Unity Hall.... Operatic repertoire a specialty. Page 596 MP. GRACE GOODHUE COOLIDGE, widow of former President Calvin Coolidge, died July 8, in Northampton, Massachusetts. In her youth she taught the deaf and dumb, and as a widow she devoted much time to civic, social, and religious work, particularly Red Cross. Intelligent, unassuming, and housewifely, she was also a very gracious first lady. Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Mrs. Harry S. 'Truman are now the only living wives of former United States Presidents. N Iran, where women do not have suffrage and their fathers select their husbands, there are, nevertheless, fourteen magazines edited by women. The oldest, Shokoofeh (The Blossom) was first published forty-three years ago. It has been suppressed from time to time—for its too radical stand—about fourteen years altogether. Its motto is: "A newspaper of literary, ethical, hygienic, household, and children subjects; its purpose, the upbringing of girls, the purification of feminine ethics." THE Oakland Women's Rowing Club is an organization of older women who row crew boats weekly on a beautiful salt water lake of 160 acres in the heart of Oakland, California.