Grandmother s Art Lula Walker "My art work," Grandma used to laugh and say And put her mending box away. For fancywork she had no flair, Like knitting tidies for a chair. But when elbows came poking through, We marveled at what she could do. A barbed wire rent, a hole in cloth Invaded by some wily moth Sent Grandma flying for her needle. Each tattered raveling she could wheedle Right back into its proper place. At home with socks or dainty lace, A work-day shirt or Sunday dress, Grandma mended with finesse Each broken thread, each tiny part, And who can say it wasn't art? A Problem, a Pot. And the Picture Louise Morris Kelley put last night's argument out of her mind; but her husband's final remark followed her about as she dressed and prepared breakfast. "The trouble with you is you won't face the fact that our family is in trouble. If you'd stop to think about it, Myrene, we're not at all the sort of family we started out to be." She set a copper chafing dish on the table for scrambled eggs. Yellow snapdragons in a black vase matched the yellow cobbler's apron she wore over a slim black skirt. Both were a striking splash in the beige and white decor that had been especially created to complement her smoke-blonde hair. Maybe Del is sorry we have this fabulous apartment in Belmont 'Towers instead of some cracker box "rose covered cottage." Well, I'm not. I'm glad his success in photography has allowed us to have some of the niceties of life, she thought. Aloud, she called, "Phillip, are you dressing?" Her son came out of his bedroom, negative electrical charges preceding him. "I am not going to school today. I am not going." Myrene did not intend to take him seriously. "Really, Phillip? Why not?" She poured his orange juice and served his breakfast plate. "You know why not." He looked as if he might cry. "Then I must have forgotten." She hoped he wouldn't cry. It made her feel unsure of how to cope with him. Page 598 \) ear McDowell tried to "You know what today is." "Of course, dear," she bluffed, "today is the day that your class — or is it your whole school — is going to." "And I still don't have one." He was going to manage not to cry. He was going to be stubborn. His face became red between the freckles, and unshed tears made his blue eyes brilliant. "It isn't just for the pet show. I've always wanted a brown woolly dog." "You know The Towers will not allow pets." She added, to herself, they barely tolerate children. "Son, I offered to buy you a lovely aquarium of rare and expensive tropical fish." "Huh! You can't pet a fish. I told you Bobby has a parakeet." He pushed the scrambled eggs around on his plate. "They're not woolly. But at least they get to know you and all." "You know how I feel about birds. And it isn't as if you were old enough to take the responsibility of keeping the cage clean." He pushed his plate away, picked up his jacket, and left for his day at second grade, leaving his mother worried about his lack of appetite, relieved that he had gone to school, and unhappy because he had not kissed her goodbye. She ran down the hall and caught up with him by the elevator. "Phillip, I know something that will make you happy. Daddy might come to your school today to take pictures. Any boy can bring a pet to school. But you're the only one at school that has a Daddy who