Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
February—Short, but gay with patriotic oratory, fancy dress balls, and sentimental valentines!
Mrs. Hattie Carraway of Arkansas is the only woman Senator in the present Congress but there are six women Representatives, Mary T. Norton of New Jersey, Florence Kahn of California, Edith N. Rogers of Massachusetts, Kathryn O. McCarthy of Kansas, Virginia Jenkes of Indiana and Isabella Greenway of Arizona.
Ruth Bryan Owen, United States minister to Denmark, was given the honor of being the first envoy to appear before King Christian X during the ceremony of his New Year levee. Among men resplendent in diplomatic and military uniforms, she was beautiful in a black gown embroidered in silver and a black velvet hat interwoven with silver cloth.
Katherine Hepburn is voted the greatest find of 1933. Either for cinema or the speaking stage. She is distinguished for charm and personality.
Greta Garbo back from Sweden with her surprising play "Queen Christina" has again won the movie fans.
Cornelia Otis Skinner, monologist in her latest play "The loves of Charles II" opens each scene with a tableau which duplicates a painting of the period.
Maria Jeritza of Vienna, appeared at the reopening of the Chicago Opera this season in the title role of La Tosca.
Harriet Chalmers Adams, noted woman geographer is in Palestine turning a 30 years experience of exploring into books, In her travels she has penetrated many lands where no other white woman has ever been.
Marion Talley after seven years retirement, has come back to the stage with the revival of the Chicago Opera. She shows more poise, finer voice, and a deeper feeling for her art.
Anne Lindbergh has been awarded the cross of honor of the United States Flag Association for her courage and efficiency as navigator and radio operator in the survey of transatlantic air routes.
Evelyn Frost, Aviatrix while piloting a plane enroute from France to Egypt, collided with high tension wires and perished in the wreckage.
Helen Jacobs, tennis champion, was voted at the annual Press Sports Poll, the queen of sports of 1933.
Mrs. Maud Chegwidden of Utah, has been elected a fellow of the Royal Horticultural Society of London in recognition of her outstanding work in flora culture.
Agnes Rapplier has written a series of pioneer stories. "Junipero Serra, Pioneer Colonist of California" is the latest.
Margaret Ayers Barnes' new novel "Within the Present" covers the period of 1914-1933. Rather a 'close up' for fiction, but its pages have abundant interest,
Bernadette Soubirous, a French peasant girl, who years ago, it is claimed, had visions at the lake of Lourdes, was recently proclaimed a Saint, by Pope Pius XI. Amid all the color and magnificence of which the Catholic officials are masters.
Relief Society Pageant By Annie Wells Cannon
Presented at the Relief Society Conference October 7, 1933 in the Assembly Hall.