For Young Mothers By Holly Baxter Keddington
What is the temperature of your home? A stake president recently asked this question, at a Relief Society Convention. He said "The Mother is the thermometer in the home. It is she who has in her power the tempering of the mental and moral atmosphere." Isn't it very true? Are you radiating warmth with laughter, happy conversation, corrective uplift, a wholesome composure and a friendliness that makes others happy to be with you; or do you promote storms of protest, irritability, sulkiness, and the attitude of "you go your way and I'll go mine.' Are you changeable like the month of February? We all need the uplift, the smile, the handclasp of the other fellow. Let us temper our personal atmosphere in our homes so that our friends and family will feel our influence. Bring real warmth to these drab, wintry days by keeping the temperature in the home at a comfortable level. Many mothers may stand aghast at the showing of selfishness and rudeness of the child who formerly was gentle and generous in his play. This negative disposition may sprout at any age. A child is naturally "not nice in his attitude toward others" says Mr. Patri. Only by early training in the joy of sharing. And understanding others rights can this be overcome. The child may be very young when he first makes known that he doesn't want a guest to use his property. There ensues a free-for-all. This tension can be aggravated materially by the mother if she scolds. But if she takes just a few minutes to show both children that fine game of sharing, many unpleasant situations may be avoided. After a time you may see them exchanging toys and finding any share desirable; since the bone of contention has been divided. Older children may have real reasons why they dislike sharing their toys. A playmate may be rough, selfish or unfair. If you would have your own child considerate of the other fellows property he must first learn to care for his own. And every mother I know says "How long will it be before I can be sure I won't have to remind John or Jane about picking up and putting away?" All I can say is that we must just hope and work for that day to come. The child who has learned to be fair, honest and considerate, who has earned the comradeship of the play ground, has learned much. "Learning to play is as serious a problem for the child as earning a living is for the adult." I quote Mr. Patri. "St. Valentine's Day is another of the joyous days for children. Party, pastry, candy and decoration suggestions are found in every magazine. My only suggestion is that mother should help the children create little remembrances instead of buying everything. I know a mother who made plain cookies and wrote names in icing on each one. These were not only a novelty but were—oh!—so good too. February always reminds us of Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln's life was very hard. Few living now could have lived as he lived. He was sad, worried and harassed beyond our understanding, but he could be a wonderful friend. On one occasion when there was talk of a poor man without friends, he said, "If he has no friends, I will befriend him."