Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke XI—Slip-Covers AND DECORATIVE TEXTILES EAVING is perhaps the oldest of all arts. This is evidenced in the very ancient textiles that are preserved in museums and art galleries, and in the paintings in Egyptian tombs at least five thousand years old which depict weavers at their looms. Indeed we also have abundant proof in the Bible that Egypt, Palestine, Assyria and other countries of the East were all famous for their linens, many handsomely embroidered, at least one thousand years before Christ. Silks are very ancient in the Orient, and over a thousand years ago they were made in Europe. A little later Italy and France began the manufacture of wool tapestries and velvets. The most famous Gobelin and Flemish tapestries came from this period. From this time on weaving advanced rapidly and damasks, brocades, linens, and other fabrics were produced until today there is a marvelous array of textiles available, both in Europe and America from which we may choose, governed always by appropriateness and most of us more or less by price. Can you realize how cold, barren and harsh our homes would be without the use of textiles—curtains, rugs, drapes, upholstery? Textiles soften hard lines, they enliven a room and add warmth and grace. They have a vitalizing influence. More than this they deaden or absorb sound. Have you ever noticed the noise and resonance of a room at housecleaning time when all the rugs were out and curtains down? It has an empty sound. This is noticeable to a smaller extent even when the curtains are down. With them all back in place we can breathe easily once more, the charm and homelike quality have returned. Home decoration would be impossible without textiles, and their correct employment is one of the most important. Single factors in interior decoration. "TEXTILES have certain qualities which must be taken into consideration when choosing them for your home. These qualities are texture, scale, movement, pattern and color. Texture comes from the Latin and means weave, and is certainly the most outstanding characteristic of any textile. It refers to the roughness or smoothness, or to the feel and appearance of the material. Next in importance is scale because the design must not only harmonize with the character of the room, but to the size as well. Large patterns must not be used in small rooms nor on small articles. The weave of the material also gives it a certain weight-scale, making it heavy or light in appearance and this weight effect must be taken into consideration when selecting textiles. For instance, a deep pile weave looks heavier than one of smooth surface. Therefore, a small room should contain very little, if any deep textured material or it will appear stuffy—the texture would be out of scale with the size of the room. If the material is patterned the pattern should agree in scale with the texture, that is, if the pattern is large there should be a heavier weave, or a small close weave suggests a small pattern. It YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 83 might be said in passing, however. That a design will appear larger on a smooth, close weave than on a rough, or open weave. Weave, to a certain extent, modifies the value of a pattern, it seems to sink into the weave and is not so apparent. Close weaves such as satin, because of the smoothness and compactness of its surface, reflect the light while loose weaves absorb it. This fact must be taken into consideration in the use of textiles in rooms without much light. If there is design in the textile be sure that the movement is in the right direction or that there is not too much movement. Often a design, distracting in itself, will look very nice when hung in folds so that the eye is not pulled in any one direction. In color one, of course, is governed principally by the scheme of the room and the suitability to period. If you have no definite scheme in mind for your room many suggestions may be secured from the textiles themselves—a yard of cretonne, a square of Chinese embroidery, an Oriental prayer rug, or a beautiful tapestry may be magnified into a fine room scheme by following the suggested combinations of hues for your room's furnishings and accessories. HERE are three fundamental weaves—plain, twill and satin. The first is one in which the weft threads go over and under the warp, as in scrim, burlap, muslin, etc., or a ribbed effect is produced by coarse wefts and fine warps as in rep and poplin. In a twill weave there are three sets of warp threads which show in diagonal lines. In a satin weave there are five or more warp threads which are the only threads shown on the right side. Velvet is woven in such a way that there is a high standing pile above the ground of the goods. Trade names have been given to fabrics coming under this classification to distinguish the different weaves: Velvet is a closely woven fabric, with a short-standing pile, either cut or looped. Velour has a more open weave, short pile, and usually contains little silk. Plush has an open weave and deeper pile than velour, but contains no silk and is the least expensive type. Frieze is a velvet weave, made of linen, wool and other yarn in which the pile is looped and uncut. It is very suitable and smart for upholstery, being used on fine furniture to a greater extent than mohair, a material made from the hair of Angora goats, and very similar to plush. Damask is a fabric in which the lines of the weave in the background run in one direction and the lines of the pattern in a contrasting direction, usually at right angles. The pattern on both sides is alike but the colors are reversible. Brocatelle is a damask weave woven in such a way that the figures stand out, resulting in an embossed design. Brocade is woven embroidery in which the threads of the design are floated over on the reverse side. Hand blocked linen can be recognized by the unevenness of color, or by irregularities—the edges of the pattern are very seldom even. Hand-blocked linens require much time and skill in the making and, therefore, are very expensive. One can, however, frequently secure machine-blocked linens that are very lovely. Chintz is a printed cotton fabric of close weave and usually small pattern. It is of Hindu origin and means "many colored." Cretonne is  a printed cotton, linen and cotton or linen fabric, usually of coarse texture and larger scale pattern. It comes from the French word Creton, a French village noted for its weaving. The terms are often used interchangeably. The original cretonne, however, usually contained linen in some part of its composition, and the pattern was larger than the English chintz. Chintz may be glazed, cretonne never is. Toile de Jouy is a linen or cotton closely woven material on which are printed landscape scenes. The figures are usually set far apart a great deal of the background appearing. It derived its name from the town of Jouy in France where it was first manufactured. It is very lovely in Colonial interiors. When referring to a piece of goods it is called by its weave no matter of what material it is made. For instance, damask refers to the weave and it may be of cotton, linen silk or wool, or any combination of them. WING to lack of space it is impossible to take up in detail distinguishing characteristics of every type of material. However, a few suggestions on buying might be given: When buying materials for glass curtains draw out a thread or two. If they will pull out in either direction it is scrim or voile. Grenadine, gauze or marquisette differ in that threads can be pulled out in one direction only, and nets are locked in both directions and are the firmest and strongest of the group, will last longer and launder better. They are most expensive so be sure you get net when you pay for it. In buying chintz or cretonne caution should be observed. The cheaper fabrics are apt to fade quickly, and if of stiff texture will not hang gracefully. Do not be misled by the name, for instance, tapestry cretonne refers only to the pattern; linenized cretonne will provide a satisfactory substitute for linen if it is bought at cretonne prices. Guard against jute-filled cretonne. Sunlight is injurious to most silks, They should, therefore, be lined, Soft textured silks will wear better than the stiff, or filled silk. Again, do not be misled by assuming a material is silk if called damask, velvet or taffeta. Tapestry is a heavy, hand-woven ribbed fabric in a plain weave, alike on both sides. On the wrong side it may have an occasional loose thread. Tapestry may be made of wool or cotton and if chosen with care will become a heirloom in your family. Many fabrics are called tapestry because of their design, not weave. When buying avoid the common type in which the background is loosely woven from soft yarns and will not wear with the body of the cloth. Always in selecting tapestries the furniture and room in which it is to be used must be considered. Before buying textiles it is wisest to try out several pieces in the place where they are to be used, in both artificial and natural light. What looks well in the shop may not be at all suitable to the article on which it is to be used or to the room. It is always advisable to experiment. The best upholstered furniture is sold with denim covering, the finer covering to be chosen by the buyer to suit himself and his home. In the home, too, we must often meet the problem of recovering old furniture. In choosing a material with which to do this one must consider, form, style and wood of the article to be covered, the amount of YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 85 wear it is to have, the sort of room in which it is to be used, and scale, color and texture. It should be selected because of its beauty, harmony of color and appropriateness of design, and the quality of texture and its ability to retain its luster and beauty through years of wear. For example, a Louis XVI chair in ivory enamel and gilt would be incongruous if covered in a rough tapestry in dark, rich colors. Such a chair would call for a brocade in light, delicate tints, or a thin-striped silk, or a light colored satin, and would, of course, be used in a drawing room or boudoir. The tapestry would be more suitable on a sturdy chair of English Oak. Common sense will guide one in choosing material for use. One would not choose a lovely damask of delicate coloring in a room which has constant and hard usage. Anyone who is handy can do upholstering or recovering work at home. A few directions might be of value. To upholster a chair seat the first thing to do is to remove all the old upholstery and web strongly crossing over so that there are at least four strong strips, stretched tightly. Cover with canvas and tack. Loop a string from one tack to another. Lay on the cleaned stuffing evenly, under the strings and in the center. An under covering the proper size should be tacked over, the back corners cut to fit the uprights, and pulled down as tightly as possible. Then the final covering is tacked on. It may be finished with a banding and studs if desired. Loose seats are handled in the same way except the final covering is tacked on the under side of the seat, beginning at the center and working toward the corners which are doubled and tacked back. In covering an easy chair the front of the chair back is covered first and tacked the shape of the chair, the wings, if any, being covered in the same way, then the arms, the material being tacked on the under side, the back of the uprights and round the polished wood, using fine gimp pins. The back of the wings are then covered and tacked to the back upright. The seat is next covered, the material being tacked close to the moulding, then a piece is pinned to the outside back and stitched on. The tacked edge at the moulding is covered with a banding of the material long enough to go around the chair. Time was when slip covers were strictly utilitarian affairs, bulky in fit and drab in coloring, whose only purpose was to protect the furniture from dust and dirt during vacation time. Now, however, brilliant in hue and interesting in pattern they lend a decidedly decorative note to any room. They furnish color, conceal worn upholstery, unify odd pieces, provide variety in furnishing, restore to use furniture worn or discarded because of unpleasing design, and finally protect the furniture. Cheerful new slip covers provide a spring tonic for tired rooms and will change the spirit of the entire house, giving it an air of coolness and freshness. Although they are especially suitable for summertime dress some people very successfully keep furniture in slip covers the year around. This should not be done if the chair or couch frames are very lovely. The material chosen should be close in weave so that dust will not penetrate readily, and firm so it will not stretch or pull out of place. Color fastness is desirable. Glazed chintz is a particularly suitable fabric as dirt cannot penetrate the glazed finish. Other materials suit  able for slip covers are Belgian linens, either natural or with stripes, cretonne in floral and modernistic designs, sateen (in some rooms black sateen with bright colored piping and cushions is very smart), cotton mohair, rep, block-printed linens, Toile de Jouy, rayon taffeta, checked or plain gingham, white linen (bound in black) or mixtures of linen, cotton and silk are all good. They may be bound in contrasting colors, and may have flounces, box-plaited or ruffled, or plain—the latter is really the smartest. All furniture need not be covered with the same material unless it needs tying together. It would prove monotonous in a large room and overpowering in a small one. Harmony there must be, but always harmony without monotony. The use of two or more materials which will combine well is best. For instance, in a small room individuality might be introduced by using a plain material on the davenport and perhaps one chair, with two or three small chairs or stools in decorative materials. In a room that needs pulling together it is often satisfactory to have the slip covers of the couch or chair of the same material as the drapes. To make slip covers take accurate measurements before buying materials. Pre-shrink the material before cutting. Then cut and fit them on the furniture. If the material has a large design be sure to center it accurately on the back and seat of the piece being covered. If a narrow material is used join piecings on a lengthwise thread and match designs carefully. Selvedge edges should be snipped to prevent drawing. Press open. Place lengthwise thread vertically on back, and from front to back on seat. Place material on chair or couch and pin, allowing at least one inch for seams. Be sure to allow plenty of material to tuck in under cushions and side arms so it will stay in place. Narrow tape or ribbon may be used for binding. On upholstered chairs and sofas slip covers may be made without fastenings or have snap fasteners at one side of the back. Side chairs are often covered, especially in summertime to give an appearance of comfort and prevent clothing from sticking to the varnish in hot weather. They are best made with back and seat covers fastened separately, with snap fasteners or tape. Slip covers to fit tightly over the tops of the tables are very smart for summertime. Out-of-door furniture, tables and chairs, may have covers of waterproof material. Small seat pads of gingham, chintz or oilcloth may be made for kitchen, bedroom or breakfast nook chairs and fastened by means of tapes tied at the four corners. Portiere curtains are a means of introducing textiles into a room, providing variety and interest, and of relieving the bareness of an opening. All arches or opening do not need them. If rooms are small an effect of spaciousness will be gained by their omission as they tend to divide rather than unite rooms. Portieres should be made of two thickness of material, back to back, preferably with an interlining of outing flannel. They should have a double heading to conceal the pole. They may be suspended within the opening, or from the face of the casings. In the latter case it is desirable to have two pairs, one for each room, each lined with the color of the other. This method is used where there are folding doors. The coloring of the portieres should be the same as that of the window drapes or related. One may be patterned, the other a YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 87 solid color of one of its principal tones. Materials suitable for portieres are moires, failles, velours, linens, damasks, chenilles, crewel cloth, shiki silk and other similar fabrics. Portieres should be pulled back to either side when not in use so as not to obstruct the passageway. Covering the walls with fabrics is entirely appropriate in certain rooms. In a room where texture is necessary coarse or irregular weaves may be used. Elegance is given by the use of velvets, brocades and damasks. Such materials are used above a dado. To tack them on batten strips which are then fastened to the wall is a better method than to fasten them directly on the wall. Fabrics with oiled finish which are now available in many delightful designs, and Japanese grass cloth are very durable and attractive. Wall coverings and the appropriateness of different designs to particular rooms were discussed more fully in a previous lesson. Wall hangings will be discussed in connection with pictures. Textiles, of course, should be used in moderation. There should be enough of the natural wood and enough of the architectural lines evident to give firmness and strength to the room. Pattern too, should be used with discretion. Contrast in texture, color and pattern is most desirable, although that contrast must be harmonious and suitable. Some suggestions for combining materials in rooms are: In a Colonial room with mahogany furniture of the Georgian type we might use damask on one chair, brocade or satin, on couch, another chair might be covered with needlepoint. In a bedroom, curtains of Toile de Jouy in violet would harmonize with coral moire on bed and chair. Drapes of Old India prints in cream, red, blue and green would be harmonious with rose damask, brown satin, blue frieze and green taffeta in the upholstery. In either case the floor might be covered with a wool rug of heavier and deeper texture, yet if a rough or rugged texture rug were used, or one of cheap cotton introduced there would be immediate conflict. The study of fabrics is a never exhausted one. It is a story that is romantic and intermingled with the history of the world's civilizations. Many delightful things have been left to us from the ages that have passed to furnish inspiration for those of today. There are also many modern designs that are unsurpassed for loveliness. But there has been a demand for cheap things and this demand has been supplied at the expense of quality. It is better to go without than to use a cheap, tawdry imitation. Again let me repeat—use cotton, which is real and only what it pretends to be, rather than a cheap silk that is only a poor imitation of a fine brocade or damask. Be as honest in your decoration as you are in your character. Let your home really reflect you.