A Path-Breaker in Woman's Activities By Lorene Pearson
WE THINK of pioneers as those brave men and women who took household goods, weapons and a plough and trekked out into the wilderness to establish homes. But there were others, quite as fearless and as tenacious of purpose as these frontiersmen. They were the trailmakers in the fields of activity for women— brave pioneers in a new world.
Among these women there are none, perhaps, more worthy of the name of "pathbreaker" than Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard. A child of rugged pioneers she had trekked her way courageously into new fields for the fairer sex, step by step, to the head of the Department of Political Economy, Finance and Sociology in the University of Wyoming.
It was with this knowledge of the distinguished woman that I drew near Old Main Building on the University campus. Students were hurrying to classes, tripping up the old stone steps with the enviable enthusiasm of youth. Then I noticed a woman, walking along at the same rapid pace, a familiar brief case held firmly under her arm. She was as eager in attitude as the students but there was a difference; every movement spoke of accomplishment, of the joy of extended determination in spite of obstacles. Only this aspect of ardent life-long activity set her apart from the younger men and women hurrying to eight o'clock classes. Carrying her seventy years very lightly upon her shoulders Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard ascended the steps and disappeared into Old Main Building.
Climbing the stairs to her rooms on the second floor, I reviewed what I knew of her life. At the age of nine she was left fatherless on the frontier of Iowa. And although she had the advantage of an unusual spiritual influence, her father having been a minister, she also had the disadvantage that attends a family of a missionary—little remuneration for services. By dint of much management the mother and her four children moved to the University town of Iowa where the children were educated.
AT a very early age Grace Hebard recognized the limitations set upon the activities of women; it was an unheard of ambition that a girl should want to or should even be able to compete in the economic world with men. But here was a vast field, a wilderness to women, why not strike out and break a path for others to follow? Once her mind was made up nothing could deter her from fighting the thing through to its conclusion—a necessary attribute to the successful pioneer.
Her first definite step in this direction was to register in the University in the College of Engineering. This action was attended by the usual doubts and admonishings that attend every new movement. But without swerving in the least from her purpose the young woman graduated in 1882, receiving the first Bachelor of Science degree ever given to a woman by that institution. She was employed immediately in the Capitol of Wyoming at Cheyenne, as a draftsman in the Surveyor General's office. But she was not content—pioneers never are—with just one new achievement, not when there were so many things that needed doing in the new state.
Gradually her interest became active in educational affairs. She was appointed a trustee for the University of Wyoming and removed to Laramie, having completed nine years of service as a draftsman. She was the first woman to be a trustee of Wyoming's institution of higher learning; another break into the wilderness of activities for women Miss Hebard received a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Illinois Wesleyan in 1893 in preparation for her future services to the University. She has been with the University to the present time, first as trustee, then as librarian, teacher and professor and finally as head of the Department of Political Economy and Finance.
Standing on the landing for a moment out toward the Snowy Range glistening in the morning sunlight 12,000 feet above the tides, I recalled the numberless activities she had undertaken in addition to her teaching and executive work. In 1898 she was admitted to the Wyoming bar, the first woman to have the privilege of practicing law in the state; in 1914 she was accorded the right to appear before the Supreme Court of the state. And not all these activities were confined to serious fields; she was the first woman to hold golf and tennis championships in the state.
NOT long after her arrival at the University she turned her interest to the undeveloped field of Wyoming and Western history and Government, with special emphasis on their educational value. There was obviously a great need for histories and Civics to provide the school children and students with lore of their own west and state. Perceiving this need Dr. Hebard set out upon the tremendous task of alleviating it. Indefatigably she continued her research, here and there wherever a clue led her. She traveled to interview people, to locate diaries, letters, pictures for her books. As a result she published Pathbreakers From River to Ocean, which has gone through its sixth edition, testifying to the gap it filled in the educational world. Other texts on Civics and Government of Wyoming, and references for teaching history by counties in the state were added to her lists.
A story is told of a trip she made to the town of Lander, Wyoming, a long trip in the time of teams and wagons. Dr. Hebard maintained that Thomas Fitzpatrick was the first white man to cross the Rocky Mountains, South Pass, near Lander, is not obviously a low point and might easily be crossed without the realization that the back-bone of the mountains had been reached. Clues in her research led Miss Hebard to the conclusion that Fitzpatrick had gone over South Pass without realizing it. To test this theory out for herself, she hired a team and buggy and was driven over the Pass. Even when she was looking for it she did not know when the high point was reached and descent begun on the west slope. Her theory was entirely tenable. This is a sample of her thoroughness in investigation.
HER later years have been employed, outside the heavy schedule of teaching, in preparing books of research on early western history. Her latest and ninth book, Sacajawea, has just come off the press. The story of the Indian woman guide to the famous expedition of Lewis and Clark in 1804-06 is one of thrilling interest. Practically nothing was known of Sacajawea after she left the employ of the Captains until Dr. Hebard disclosed her later years, her burial place in Wyoming and her unknown record of service to the United States in the second half of her life, in this unique book.
I recalled as I came to the door of her office an interesting story connected with her earlier life. Her publisher, wishing to confer on certain problems in connection with her text books, came one day to her Laramie residence. Dr. Hebard answered the door. "I have come," said the gentleman, "to see Dr. Hebard. I wonder if he is in." Even when told he could not believe that a woman had been writing the books on American government and civics, or that a woman should have a Doctor of Philosophy degree, nor that one so young could have either distinction. It was a commentary on the unusualness of Dr. Hebard's achievements.
I could readily understand the publisher's incredulity as I opened the door and faced this woman pathbreaker. But once inside there seemed nothing at all unusual about the matter. Dr. Hebard "belonged." The unusual aspect lay in her own determination and hard work. She was busily at work on a new book, her shoulders still erect, as I came in. Her plain, neat suit suggested that her major interest was in other things than self-adornment. On a chair nearby lay the brief case that is familiar to all who meet her on the street or on the walks between the Campus and her home. On the walls were innumerable maps, some of her own drafting. An old ox-yoke, relic of the great westward migration, took its place against the wall with rows of books. Out of the windows could be seen the rugged mountains that border the high Laramie Valley on all but one side. It was significant that Dr. Hebard should be connected with the University placed highest in altitude in the United States; beyond the edge of the town the country had a wild, unconquered aspect, quite the setting for a woman who welcomed struggles as necessary to any career of distinction.
DR. HEBARD rose from her work, a straight, wiry woman, energy in every movement. In a crisp, concise voice, used so long to command attention, she asked my mission. Many years of interruptions had left no irritation to my request for an interview. We were seated immediately ready to begin our talk. I realized almost instantly that here was no dreamer. Her hands were long and capable, the hands of the craftsman, handling the instruments of the engineer. Her features had the keenness of the practical people who pioneered successfully as the frontiers moved westward. Seven generations ago an adventuring forefather landed at Salem, Massachusetts. The ruggedness and perseverance of the successive generations of frontiersmen were all written in the face of Dr. Hebard.
When I ventured that the doors of most professions had been closed to women when she began her career, she replied in that delightful vein of humor that runs through her conversation, "The doors hadn't yet been pushed open by women, that was all."
BEHIND this facetious remark I caught a glimpse of the indomitable spirit that makes for greatness. No man or woman has had distinction come to them without infinite labor, great sacrifices and above all the determination to accomplish a task set out to do. And added to this the courage to branch out into new fields. She said to me, "Many people today think there are no more opportunities to pioneer since free land has all been fenced in. The fields of thought and science and history have scarcely been scratched; education has much to offer for the person interested in the improvement of teaching; I could go on indefinitely in almost any direction and point out new things to be done."
Confronting her there behind the manuscripts and notes on her desk I felt the truth of her words; when she was young there must have been many people who could see no opportunities. And although my first impression of Dr. Hebard—that she was no dreamer—, still seemed true, I could see that she had vision; only foresight could have guided her to so many distinguished accomplishments.
I asked, "What has been your guiding principle through your life?"
"Investigation," she said. "I have believed nothing until I have worked it out for myself." Her alert expression, her capable hands lying restlessly among her papers combined to give substantiality to her words. How many people, I thought, accept the dictates of others without questioning the advisability of following them. She continued, "As long as you imitate someone else you are not progressing. If you want to get ahead and do something worthwhile, you will have to use your own initiative. I suppose it has something to do with faith in the validity of your own ideas."
After a moment's reflection she added, "But don't think branching out for yourself is easy. The paths through primeval forests have usually been laboriously hewn out with a hand ax."
We were interrupted by one of her students. He had come in with a clipping which carried information he thought he might like to work on in the historical field. Dr. Hebard encouraged him, as inspired teachers can, to go on with his interest. He went out afire with a vision of his project. It cannot be adequately reported how much enthusiasm for work comes from association with this woman. To be in her presence for a few moments is to leave, potent with stimulation to set out on a new path with zeal and joy. It was evident that here was no ordinary teacher; here was an urgent force that inspired better effort.
Later I had the rare privilege to be admitted to Dr. Hebard's house. It is a quaint roomy structure painted in a soft gray with a bright rust colored roof; symbolic, I thought, of the beauty and wisdom of her years of work, gray—thoughtful, and of her never failing freshness and eagerness of the student just beginning life, bright—visionary. Inside the house there is the instant atmosphere of repose, the comforting quiet of a refuge. On the walls are rare pictures of historical value, and works of art. Bright Indian rugs are scattered on the floor before easy chairs that invite the beholder to pause and read the rare books in the bookcases by the door.
I KNEW that every Christmas the house became gay with the laughter of young girls. It has become a tradition that all the girls in the dormitories who are unable to go to their own homes for the holidays are to have Christmas dinner with Dr. Hebard. After the feast there is a picture show and then candy-making in the kitchen of the gray house with the bright rust-colored roof. But the real heart of the house is Dr. Hebard's study. Here, in what her housekeeper calls "the jungle," are the multitudinous notes of the book she is engaged upon. Here, in the mellowed late afternoon light, you sense the sweetness of the hours of patient work she has devoted to the saving of historical treasures. On her desk lay a volume of Sacajawea, just from the publisher. It was the result of thirty years of work and many of the hours spent in its preparation were consummated here, in the heart of her house. From the window of the study is a view of her lovely garden, cultivated with great difficulty in this high altitude, but flourishing, as everything that she has touched.