1933 a Record Year for Women
In 1933 women achieved honors in politics and science never attained before by members of their sex. One writer says, "In 1920 women gained the right to vote, in 1933 they obtained appointments to major governmental positions." Secretary Frances Perkins is the first woman in the Cabinet and Ruth Bryan Owen, Minister to Denmark, is the first woman diplomatic envoy to a foreign government. Phoebe Umlie, a member of the national advisory board on aeronautics, is the first woman to ever hold a government post in connection with aviation. Nellie Tayloe Ross is the first woman director of the mint. When Mrs. Blair Banister was made assistant treasurer of the United States, she became the first woman to hold that position. 1933 saw Kathryn McCarthy O'Laughlin, an attorney from Kansas and Virginia E. Jenckes, a farmer of Indiana, and Mrs Isabella Greenway of Arizona added to the roster of Congress. Law enforcement opened its doors to a woman when Mrs. Elizabeth Bass was made head of the Chicago narcotic bureau. Rose Schneiderman is on the national labor advisory board. Mrs. Mary Harriman Rumsey is chairman of the consumers' advisory board, and Mrs. Ellen S. Woodward is in charge of the women's activities for the federal relief administration. Marjorie K. Rawlings of Hawthorne, Florida, won the 1933 O. Henry memorial award. Cecelia Beaux of New York was admitted into the exclusive membership of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, Maude Slye of the University of Chicago is outstanding in the battle waged against cancer. Mrs. Anne Morrow Lindbergh as navigator and wireless operator on the aerial survey made by her distinguished husband, has won a high place in navigation of the air. To Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, it is said, more than any other one woman goes the credit for focussing public interest on women's activities so sharply in 1933. It is likely that she will continue to do much to place women in the forefront of achievement. She is deeply interested along many lines and puts her heart and soul into the progress of women, the welfare of children, and to all movements looking to the betterment of mankind.