Then comes a vision sweet, no more obscured,
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in April)
Gifts of the Spirit
1. How Obtained. Concerning the manner in which gifts are obtained from Him, the Lord has said: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world." (D. & C, 132:5.) Thus the Lord never gives a blessing to those who have not obeyed the requisite law. In other words, the condition of an individual at any instant is the sum total of his previous attitude toward law. There is no fortuity or caprice in the operations of God's law or in the distribution of his blessings. Before man came to earth, he accepted a given plan and agreed to abide by its provisions. There is no other way by which he can return to the presence of the Father. His blessings are commensurate with the degree of his obedience.
2. After this plan was accepted, man was a long time in the presence of the Father before he came to earth. Thus the state of his development at the time of birth is the product of a long line of pre-earthly attitude. Man does not have his beginning at the time of birth; he is already a partially developed individual, comparable to the student who has been at school for some years. He is not a beginner, and he is not a graduate.
3. It is a widely recognized fact that at birth some individuals are much more advanced than others, and that thereafter they progress far faster than the group. These are commonly spoken of as the "gifted" ones, seemingly with the thought that their superiority is derived from some extraneous source, as an unearned and unmerited blessing. This, of course, is a mistake.
4. It appears that some progress had been made by the spirits of men even before the council in heaven, as witness the following: "The Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; and God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born." (Abraham 3:22, 23.)
5. It is not unreasonable to believe, therefore, that the condition of man's spirit at the time of birth is the product of his various reactions to the laws with which he has come in contact. Aside from his own wilful responses, he is doubtless also influenced to a considerable extent by the acts of his parents, and probably others. It has been said that the sins, likewise the good deeds of the parents are visited upon the children to the third and fourth generations. Some children, for example, are handicapped from birth by disease, such as syphilis, arising from parental sin. Others LESSON DEPARTMENT are blessed with strong bodies, unimpaired by parental misbehavior or neglect. Thus, as already said, the condition of the individual at the time of birth is the product of his reactions to the various agencies affecting it.
6. Variety of Gifts. The Lord has said that, "The Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit." (D. & C. 84:46.) No one, therefore, is neglected. Every one receives light, doubtless in different degrees, as the following statement declares: "There are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God. To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby." (D. & C. 46:11, 12.) Moreover, considering the matter of degree, it is easily conceivable that there are as many gifts as there are individuals.
7. Nature of the Gifts. Here is the Lord's enumeration: "To some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that he was crucified for the sins of the world. To others it is given to believe on their words, that they also might have eternal life if they continue faithful. And again, to some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know the differences of administration, as it will be pleasing unto the same Lord, according as the Lord will, suiting his mercies according to the conditions of the children of men. And again, it is given by the Holy Ghost to some to know the diversities of operations, whether they be of God, that the manifestations of the Spirit may be given to every man to profit withal. And again, verily I say unto you, to some 109 is given, by the Spirit of God, the word of wisdom, To another is given the word of knowledge, that all may be taught to be wise and to have knowledge. And again, to some it is given to have faith to be healed; — and to others it is given to have faith to heal. And again, to some is given the working of miracles; and to others it is given to prophesy; and to others the discerning of spirits. And again, it is given to some to speak with tongues; and to another is given the interpretation of tongues. And all these gifts come from God, for the benefit of the children of God. And unto the bishop of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to discern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God." (D. & C. 46:13-27.)
8. Developed by Use. It was pointed out earlier in this lesson that the superiorities possessed by certain individuals at the time of birth are the result of reaction to law. It is equally true that after birth these gifts will improve with use, and deteriorate with disuse. It is unfortunate that the gifted person is widely regarded as especially favored of the Lord. The fact is, of course, that he has complied more closely with the law, and therefore has received greater blessing. So far as known, Deity has provided no means of improving a gift except by righteously using it. And conversely, he has provided that unused or neglected gifts shall decline and eventually disappear. The writer of this lesson once asked an authority of the Church, who possessed marked prophetic ability, how he acquired his gift. He replied that from early 110 manhood he had prayed to the Lord for its development and had used it whenever so prompted by the Spirit. It is doubtless true, that many individuals suppress their gifts through failure to use them as the Spirit directs. "He that asketh in the Spirit asketh according to the will of God; wherefore it is done even as he asketh. And again, I say unto you, all things must be done in the name of Christ, whatsoever you do in the Spirit; and ye must give thanks unto God in the Spirit for whatever blessing ye are blessed with." (D. & C. 46:30-32.)
9. Purpose of the Gifts. Gifts are given for the benefit of not only those who possess them, but of others as well, that all may be benefited thereby. Gifts are not given for ulterior motives or for the benefit of those who seek for a sign to consume them upon their lusts. The Lord says: "They are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts." (D. & C. 46:9.)
10. Perhaps God's greatest condemnation of those who possess gifts and seek to hide them, is that he takes the gifts away. Latter-day Saints should remember that their talents are intended for the benefit of others as well as of themselves, and, moreover, that they are intensified through proper use.
11. Variety of. Gifts. It is great wisdom that God should give a variety of gifts to his children. If this had not been done, all would not profit thereby, and symmetry of development would be unknown. Ordinarily in a council of Latter-day Saints there are nearly as many gifts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as there are individuals. This promotes strength and solidarity. The decisions of such a body are the fusion of a variety of gifts—hence their strength and worth.
12. In an effort to explain the importance of the various gifts and the unity of purpose for which they exist, Paul the Apostle wrote the saints at Corinth as follows: "All these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ. For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole body were hearing, where were the smelling? But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him. And if they were all one member, where were the body? * * * The eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee: nor again, the head to the feet, I have no need of you. * * * There should be no schism in the body. * * * Ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular' (I Corinthians 12:11-27.)
13. Seek earnestly the Best Gifts. The Lord is doubtless more ambitious for his people than many of them are for themselves. He has repeatedly urged them to search for the higher things of life, and has LESSON DEPARTMENT promised that he will not turn them away. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you. Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you." (D. & C. 88: 63, 64.)
14. The Lord has warned his people that the evil one is attempting to imitate his gifts, and says: "Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; for verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my 111 commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me." (D. & C. 46:8, 9.)
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. Why is it necessary to obey law in order to obtain blessing?
2. What, then, is your conception of the term "gift" as used in this lesson?
3. Why is it impossible for gifts to improve without use? 4, What responsibilities does the possession of a gift entail?
4. Why are gifts withdrawn when they are not used?
5. Is it possible to obtain something for nothing in nature? Explain.
Teachers' Topic
BELIEVE IN YOURSELF—TRUST YOUR FELLOW-MAN— HAVE FAITH IN GOD
"Hold on to your self-respect." The most destructive fear is that which destroys confidence in one's self. It kills the "try" in him. It is so much better to take a chance, than to do nothing at all. No one is defeated until he admits it. Women can and will succeed in the task that lies before them. Women have always put the heart into every great human battle. Woman's confidence protects the ray of hope in each member of her family. She trusts each one, she believes each one will rise to the needs of the hour. Our confidence in the future and in one another was many times demonstrated during the bank holiday. We were refreshed by the sense of equality and the feelings of universal confidence. In all the lives of all God's children is much, not measured by worldly success. Wm. Lyon Phelps said, "The world counts only things done and not things attempted because the world's standards are too coarse.... One cannot weigh diamonds on hay scales." Sincere effort though followed by disappointment must count for something. Enduring universal values make up our standard of measurement. Confidence in one another and in a new and better era is essential to success. We are encouraged to fight our way through because we believe ultimately evil will be overcome with good. New hope was aroused when the president of the United States said in his inaugural address: "In this dedication of a nation we humbly ask the blessings of God. May He protect each and every one of us. May He guide me in the days to come." Let us put our trust in ourselves and in one another and in God.
 
Literature (Third Week in April)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
THE ROMANTIC SPIRIT
"O hark, O hear! How thin and clear, And thinner, clearer, farther going! O sweet and far from cliff and scar The horns of Elfland faintly blowing!"
"The Bugle Song'—Tennyson
Books are dream children. To all men comes the chance to dream. Some in dreams are eternal vagabonds, roaming the world at large; some in dreams are rulers and potentates, holding mankind in their power; some in dreams are reformers, seeking to refine the lives of men; some in dreams are creators of symphonies, maintaining the things of the spirit in a material world; but all dream of Love because it is the way of Happiness.
The Way of Romance. The voice of Youth is the voice of Romance. Youth, whether of an individual or of a race, is a time of emotional reaction rather than of philosophic reflection. Much of the youthful expression of the world has been lost because it existed orally. When we can trace the expression of the youth of a race, we find songs of war, of worship, and of love. Western Europe enjoyed its youth when the world was no longer young, and thus recorded in permanent form its youthful expression. The Middle Ages was the youth of Western Europe. The master spirit of Romance in Europe was the Celtic race. The Celts were young when Greece and Italy were young. They were vagabonds for ages, wandering on and on to the West. Coming to the ocean they settled in France and Britain. The Celts were a childlike people with a happy, radiant view of life. To them the world was but a fragment of a more beautiful world of eternal youth, where those who have lived honorable lives in this life dwell in perfect happiness. He was a wanderer because life to him was an endless quest, a profound sense of the future ruled him. Driven to the fringes of the British Isles by Romans, Angles, Saxons, and Danes, they lived in comparative freedom for many centuries maintaining their racial temperament. To the Celts we owe a large body of charming tales, from which we know that they had a high sense of personal honor and that they held women in great respect. From them the world first received the stories of Saint Brenden's marvelous voyage, of King Arthur's passing to Avalon, and of Sir Tristram's love for the beautiful Iseult. These stories have permeated many literatures and have delighted readers young and old of many lands for nearly a thousand years. Christianity and Feudalism were the forces that brought about the emergence of Western Europe from the Dark Ages. Feudalism was a practical form of government of peasants and overlords swearing allegiance to a ruler. A system of chivalric behavior evolved which embodied with government ideals of nobility derived from Christian principles. The supreme figure of chivalry was the knight. The romance of chivalry found expression in LESSON DEPARTMENT songs of valiant knights and courtly love. On the other hand Christianity with its spirituality and its monastic life was the source of the moral influence brought to medieval life. The saint was the supreme figure of Christianity. The priest was a librarian, copying the manuscript records, also was he a teacher instructing the common people in the principles of Christian life by reciting and reading to them Bible stories, saints lives, and sermons. Medieval literature is marked with the same vigor, beauty, and spiritual aspiration as is found in the tapestries from feudal halls and in the sculpture in the Gothic cathedrals of Europe. Medieval Romance. National heroes and  knights, priests and saints, lords and ladies, make up the body of medieval romance, created first by troubadors and minnesingers and recorded later by national poets. The song's of the romancers may be grouped as follows: first, songs of great deeds, expressing loyalty to one's lord and delight in combat in his defence; second, songs of spiritual struggle and exaltation; third, songs or romantic love and courtly 'honor. Arthur of Britain and Charlemagne of France are the central figures of cycles of heroic narratives. "The Song of Roland" presents in epic splendor the French national hero, Roland. Roland, the nephew of Charlemagne, was the hero of the great conflict between the French and the pagan Basques of Spain. The romance makes Roland a Christian hero defending his country against the pagans, and gives to the hero a faithful friend, Oliver; a wicked enemy, Ganelon; an invincible sword, Durendal; the love of a beautiful maid, Aude. The poem as it records the critical struggle of France against its pagan enemy, recounts the treachery of Ganelon, who to satisfy his deepseated enmity against Roland, betrays the rearguard of Charlemagne's army, the details of the great battle at Roncesvalles, and the loving devotion of Oliver as he faced death with his friend Roland. The romance does more than merely record heroic details; it reveals the basic elements of the spirit of the French-aristocratic idealism, loyal vassalage, fearlessness of thought, comradeship, and a love of pageantry and formality. The richest and deepest symbol of the religious exaltation attained in medieval life was the Holy Grail. The Grail was the cup used by Jesus and his disciples at the Last Supper. According to tradition it was brought to Britain by Joseph of Arimathea and deposited at the abbey at Glastonbury, where it was committed to the keeping of the Knights of the Grail. Upon the failure of that group to live up to its holy vows, the Grail disappeared. Going in quest of it constituted the highest adventure of medieval knighthood. In French literature the Grail romance is told by Chretian or Troyes making Parceval the hero of the quest. In German literature the romance of the Grail has for its hero Parzival, a saintly knight. Thus we have the heroes of the two chivalries, one earthly and one spiritual. Sir Thomas Malory in the English version of the Grail romance makes Galahad a spiritual hero worthy of the quest because of his emancipation as an earthly hero. To medieval romance must be attributed a significant literary development, that of creating women 114 characters. How different are Guinevere, Iseult, Enid, and Deidra than Helen, Penolope, and Cleopatra? They are so very human and so very real. During the Dark Ages woman was not only the inferior of man but she was his evil genius. With the coming of Christianity and the reverence given to Mary, the mother of Jesus, by the Holy Roman Church, woman was elevated and love was spiritualized. These ideals were appropriated by society and became the ideals of marriage. One of the many beautiful stories exemplars of courtly love which grew in this period of romance is the story of the love of Tristram and Iseult. Chretian of Troyes is responsible for the French version of the romance. Gottfried von Strassburg for the German version, and Thomas of Britain for the English version. It will be recalled that Wagner, the great German composer, utilized the themes of these medieval romances in his music dramas "Parsifal" and "Tristan and Isolde". Tristram and Iseult. The story of the love of Tristram and Iseult is one of the great love stories of all time. The origin of the story was veiled in mystery until Lady Gregory gave to the world the beautiful translation of the Celtic saga. "Cuchulain" (ka hi Jan), which contains the tragic struggle of an uncle and his nephews for the love of the most beautiful woman in Ireland. Knightly romance makes Tristram the hero. An orphan trained in knightly accomplishments, he becomes the favorite at-the court of his uncle King Mark of Cornwall. Suffering from a mortal wound Tristram seeks healing from the magic' powers of Queen Iseult of Ireland. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Upon his return Tristram sings the praises of the beautiful Princess Iseult, daughter of the Queen of Ireland. Tristram is dispatched to obtain the beautiful Iseult as a bride for King Mark. The young people become lovers. Finally, Tristram is banished to Brittany. After many years he marries Iseult of Brittany. Again being near death Tristram sends for the Queen of Cornwall. The jealousy of Iseult of Brittany keeps from Tristram the news ot the queen's arrival with the messenger. Tristram dies of a broken heart. When Queen Iseult finds her lover dead she expires by his side. The bodies are sent to Cornwall and the king knowing the truth of their tragic love for one another had a beautiful chapel erected for their tombs. Medieval literature, tapestries and carvings recorded the story of Tristram and Iseult in many forms; modern poets have used the theme frequently; today the romance takes its place with the loves of Helen and Paris, of Lancelot and Guinevere, of Romeo and Juliet, of Ableard and Heloise. The Princess—Alfred Tennyson, The Princess, a romantic medley, is a delightful romance as well as a beautiful poetic creation. It is the work of Alfred Tennyson, the poetic genius that created "The Idylls of the King," a masterpiece of lofty thought in exquisite poetic style, and "In Memoriam" with its soul-stirring power. The poem has for its theme the emancipation of woman, a great problem, one causing great diversity of opinion ever since its definite formulation with the co-education of the sexes. At the time Tennyson wrote it, 1847, it was a new one, the University of London had opened its LESSON DEPARTMENT doors to woman for the first time and the University of St. Andrews, Scotland, was preparing to follow suit. The poem is not a philosophical treatise abounding in lofty argument or emotional persuasion, but it -is a delightful exhibition of a very natural chain of circumstances glorifying the traditional conception of the spiritual place of woman in the scheme of life. Picted, the playful mood, and the poetic expression blend harmoniously in an exquisite tone picture. There is so much tenderness, such simple dignity of expression, that so long as the English language is loved and spoken "The Princess" and its songs, "Sweet and Low," "Ask Me No More," "The Bugle Song," will hold a reverenced place. The Prologue. The broad acres and stately old mansion of Sir Walter Vivian are crowded with guests, the peasants of the countryside and the personal friends of the family. The host had provided all that entertainment could provide for his guests. The poet is the college friend of the son of Sir Walter. As he strolls through the halls he is interested in the curios scattered around. He is particularly attracted to an old family chronicle containing a glowing account of "the feudal lady of the family" who armed and led her followers against a foe threatening her domains—"O miracle of noble womanhood!" said the chronicle. The poet is carried away by a group of merrymakers to join the family at the Abbey. There the conversation drifted aimlessly until the feudal ancestress is mentioned. At recital of her bravery Walter, playfully patting his sister's head asks, '"'Lives there such a woman now?" The incidents depicted. 115 "Quick answered Lilia, 'There are thousands now Such women, but convention beats them down That I were some great princess, I would build Far off from men a college like a man's a 'And I would teach them all that men are taught; Wie are twice as quick!' " Then and there, says the poet "we planned a 'summer's' tale," as Walter suggested Lilia was the heroine and each in turn added his chapter: "So I began And the rest followed; and the women sang Between the rougher voices of the men Like linnets in the pauses of the wind." Episode I—The Prince's Story. The prince of an ancient kingdom was betrothed at an early age to a neighboring princess. At his maturity his father sends ambassadors with appropriate gifts requesting that the compact be filled. The Princess denounces the arrangement because she has other plans for her life. The prince attended by his friends, Florian and Cyril, presents himself at the neighboring court. They are received graciously by the king, Gama. He is enthusiastic still to have the betrothal compact enforced, and is embarrassed at his daughter's obstinacy. The headstrong princess assisted by two older women, Lady Psyche and Lady Blanche, has founded a university for women. The prince and his friends disguised as "three ladies of the Northern empire" present themselves at the uni116 versity requesting the privilege of enrollment. Episode II—The University. The new students are first received by the College Portress, who sees that they are fittingly robed in academic silks. They are then taken to Princess Ida. At her request the statutes of the university were read by an officer which included the rules: "Not for three years to correspond with home; Not for three years to speak to any men:" Then followed a lecture by Princess Ida on the lives of such women as Semiramis, the legendary founder of Babylon; Artemisia, the brave assistant of Heres on his Grecian expedition; Rhodope, the Egyptian princess reputed to have built a pyramid; Agrippina, Cornelia, and Celia, famous Roman matrons. Upon being assigned as pupils of Lady Psyche they listen to a lecture praising the legendary Amazons, Elizabeth of England, Joan of France, Sappho of Greece and concluded with the prophecy for the future of women: "Everywhere Two heads in council, two beside the hearth, Two in the tangled business of the world, Two in the liberal offices of life." Talking to the new pupils after the lecture, Lady Psyche recognizes her brother Florian. At first she is indignant, reminding him of the inscription on the gate, "Let no man enter in on pain of death." Finally, she yields to the entreating arms of her brother pouring forth a torrent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of questions about home showing that her heart is hungry for "sweet household talk" and "phrases of the hearth." Melissa, Lady Psyche's little daughter, enters to witness a scene very foreign to the atmosphere of the university. She is sworn to secrecy. Still in disguise the visitors stroll about the campus until the organ of the chapel peals forth its melodious call for assembly. Then six hundred maidens clad in purest white assemble to hear the psalms and litanies as Princess Ida invokes the blessings of heaven on her labors for the cause of women. Episode IlI—The Princess. A song is sung—one of the most exquisite of Tennyson's songs, "Sweet and Low." In contrast to the scene just pictured is that of a mother crooning a prayerful lullabye to her babe as they await the sailor husband and father. Melissa meets the new pupils at the fountain as they are enjoying the morning splendor, and beseeches them to fly. At the request of Florian, Melissa relates in detail the university scheme and its administration. Melissa reveals that there exists a definite rivalry between the two women, Lady Psyche and Lady Blanche. Cyril acting upon this information gains entrance to Lady Blanche, and pleads the suit of his friend. Later all participate in a geology trip, and by design the prince and Ida are much together. Pleading for himself the prince suggests: "Might I dread that you, With only fame for spouse and your great deeds For issue, yet may live in vain, and miss, LESSON DEPARTMENT Meanwhile, what every woman counts her due, Love, children happiness." The Princess answers giving her preference for deeds that cannot die. The prince listened and wondered if this strange poet-princess could ever be won. The scene closes witn the evening shadows and the echoes of "The Bugle Song" resounding the message: "Our echoes roll from seul to soul And grow forever and forever." Episode I1V—Tumult. The beauty of the evening lures all. At the command of the Princess, a maiden takes a harp and sings the song "Tears, Idle Tears." To the song's message the princess is disdainful. The prince is asked to contribute to the evening's pastime, and in an aping treble sings "O, Swallow Flying South." Cyril, then, is asked to sing a song of his countrywomen. With a show of humor he sings an old ballad of two indelicate creatures, "Moll and Meg." The indignant women call "forbear," and the prince smites Cyril on the breast. Tumult reigns and the prince and his companions are discovered. At this point dispatches are delivered to the Princess, one is from the king acquainting her of the fact that he has been taken as hostage for the safe keeping of the prince, the other is from the father of the prince demanding the fulfilment of the betrothal compact before the aged Gama can be released. The prince pleads his cause and is scornfully refused by Princess Ida. A conference of students is called to decide whether the university scheme be continued or not. Lilia now sings "Thy Voice Is Heard Through Rolling 117 Drums," flinging anger against the raillery thus far spoken against her idea. Episode V—The Combat. The prince and Florian return home to find Cyril and Lady Psyche already there. King Gama is freed but is ordered to make his daughter yield or war will ensue. The prince consults the king but to no avail, so he goes to consult Ida's brothers. The three brothers of the Princess decide to fight the prince and his two friends rather than to throw the country into war. On hearing of the intended combat, the king in wrath declares: "Man for the field, and woman for the hearth, Man for the sword and for the needle she, Man with the head and woman with the heart, Man to command and woman to obey. All else confusion." The combat is held as arranged, and the prince and the sons of Gama are wounded. Episode VI—Conquest. The song "Home They Brought Her Warrior Dead" is very fittingly placed here. Princess Ida hearing of the combat leads a train of maidens across the park to where her wounded brothers lay. By chance, she passes the king bent in grief over the motionless form of his son. Yielding to her heart she orders the prince to be moved to the college along with her wounded brothers. The king refuses, demanding that his son be removed to the tents for safety. Now the Princess pleads her cause: 118 "O Sire, Grant me your son to nurse, to wait upon him Like mine own brother, for my debt to him." The injured men are removed to the college. Episode VII—Submission. The last scene of the romance opens with the exquisite song "Ask Me No More." The college is turned into a hospital and kindness and sympathy take the place of cold logic. The Princess is sad with a sense of shame at her foolishness. Love in the sacred halls holds carnival when the Princess yields to her lover. As the random story closes, Walter exclaims, "I wish she had not yielded." Lilia remained silent for the tale had touched her. Tennyson made the woman problem solvable by love; he had an abiding faith in its spirituality. The romance implied that women do not want less emotion but larger emotion; they need more love not less, more universal love and less selfish love; more sense of beauty, art, and right. The work of the world lies open to women for "The woman's cause is man's; they rise or fall together." Each must contribute their diversity to be combined harmoniously. The heart of the problem remains unaltered in spite of the years that have passed. In the lines that follow the poet pays tribute to his mother as he expresses his ideal of womanhood: "Not perfect, nay, but full of tender wants, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE No angel, but a dearer being, all dipt In angel instincts, breathing Paradise, Interpreter between the gods and men, Happy he With such a mother! Faith in womankind, Beats with his blood, and trust in all things high Comes easy to him." The spirit of Romance is the spirit of Love. Suggestions for Study. — A. Materials: 1. The Story 'of the World's Literature—Macy. Chapters 13-16. 2. The Princess—Tennyson. 3. Old Fashioned Tales, Hero Tales, Folk Tales—from the Harvard Junior Classics. Volumes 6, 7. B. Program: 1, Music a. Songs from "The Princess" —by Tennyson. 2. Discussion a. The Romantic Spirit. 3. Review a. The Princess. B. The Love Story of Tristram and Iseult. C. Method: This is a lesson of interesting significance to women. Make it Delightful. Note: Select from this lesson the part that you prefer. The whole of the lesson cannot be covered. LESSON DEPARTMENT 119 Social Service (Fourth Week in April) PLay AND PLAY FACILITIES LESSON XVI Two changes have taken place in the parental point of view regarding play The industrial conditions have been modified so that there is little place for children as workers. The time of the child must be occupied in other ways and play has become more important. Parents no longer think of play versus work in the life of a child and strive to reduce play as the evil contender. The second attitude has been caused by the psycnological demonstrations of the developmental value of play in child care. It is no longer considered evil to play. Even governmental agencies plan to support play programs and places for recreation. The aim of this lesson is to make this change in point of view more prominent in the minds of the class members and to give them some practical suggestions for directing play as a part of child care. The lesson should be taught in such a way as to answer the following questions: How can play be made to contribute most to the health of children? How can play be made to contribute most to the socialization of the child? How can play itself be kept most happy for children? What provisions for space and equipment in the home and the community are possible for the members of each class? Suggestions for Procedure: 1. Have each class member prepare a list of the places available for her children to play both at home and in the community; the type of play equipment at each place; the sanitary conditions of each place; the accident hazzards that are there; and the safeguards provided against accident. With these lists as bases discuss the healthfulness of play in the community. Stress especially freedom from accident, proper amount of fresh air play; and games, etc., suited to the children. Have a class member report on the Physical Education suggestion given in White House Conference Report, pp. 177 and 218-220. 2. Discuss the material outlined in the reading guide in order to make clear the socializing problems connected with play. 3. Have the class define "leisure." Have them see clearly that training for the worthy use of leisure is essentially training in play activities. To learn to use leisure properly children must learn what play activities are possible; they must learn to use all of the available facilities, and the process must be so happy that they will want to repeat these wholesome activities when they are free to choose and when enjoyment is their chief aim. Have a class member report on the material found in the White House Conference Report pp. 253-262. Have a special report on how reading may be made into happy play based on the White House Conference Report pp. 262-265. Happiness at play depends upon the adaptation of the activity to the stage of development of the child. Have a class member make an interpretation of the quotation from Miss 120 Harrison's story "Jack and the Alley Boys" given in the supplementary material. Have a similar report made on the quotations on play from Faegre and Andersen: "Child Care and Training." Happiness at play depends on the possibility of a wide variety of activities—not just physical. When children or primitive people use leisure they create. Read to the class the short extract 'Wrhhat is recreation" from the supplementary material. 4. In studying the problem of equipping for adequate recreation discuss first the reading guide. Then have a report made on the effect of economic status as discussed in the White House Conference Report, pp. 141-145. Topical reports from the White House Conference Report might be made as follows: Place and Play pp. 216. The school Age pp. 218-221. Outside the School pp. 221-228. Study the lists of playthings given in the supplementary material as suggestions for homes. Reading guide for class members: Personality, pp. 21-30. Play is not formally defined. There is an implied relationship of play with "new experience," "growth," "adventure," "group life," "widening interests," "leisure time opportunities," "play interests." Take time to work out these relationships as you read. The positive development values of play are listed on page 22. A pencil and paper will help you in isolating and learning these. There seems to be implied a special fear of the "gang". Do you share this fear? Is it possible to prevent the formation of gangs? What positive safeguards are suggested RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for avoiding the evils of gangs? What is meant by "natural impulses for physical and mental activity?' Is a "natural impulse" more difficult to control? What is the relation of this idea of naturalness to the last sentence in the quotation from the Committee on the Socially Handicapped as given at the top of page 4? Is the discussion on commercial types of amusement designed to do away with these, to urge more community centers, to urge more attractive community centers, to urge a different program in community centers, or for some other reason? How can children be led to "know other kinds of leisure time activity"? P. 25. The attitude expressed regarding the influence of companions is rather revolutionary. Have you thought the same way? Do you agree now? On page 27 is a quotation from President Hoover. What does he mean by "imaginative surrounding's?" What does the author mean by "children's lives are lived constructively" in the next sentence? Some definite suggestions on things to do are given. These will be of no value if you just read them. What can you do about any of them in your community? Supplementary material: 1, Harrison: "Jack and the Alley Boys." Jack went to play with the boys in the alley, took part in throwing rocks and was arrested. He was just seven years old. His mother came for help. "I don't see why Jack can't be satisfied with his toys and his picture book," she continued; he used to like them and to play with me in his LESSON DEPARTMENT nursery. But now nothing seems to satisfv him but to be with those horrid Sloam boys." Then she wished the Sloam boys would move out of the neighborhood, or that she could persuade Jack's father to sell their home and move into a neighborhood where there were no bad boys. Her helplessness appealed to me. I tried to explain to her that Jack was no longer a little child; he was a boy now, and needed a larger world than his nursery and the back yard; that he was longing for larger and more varied experiences, and that this longing was perfectly natural, in fact, it would show a sad lack of mental growth if he did not want a larger world. "She gazed at me with big, childish eyes filled with surprise. Seeing that she did not understand my generalities I began to particularize. "TI would suggest,' I continued, "that you so arrange your housework that after school on pleasant days you could go with Jack for a long walk, or take a tramp to some unfamiliar locality or a street car ride to the next suburb. Send him on errands to the grocery store," I added. "Take him into the city with you on Saturdays, occasionally. Get his father to take him out on Sunday afternoons. In such ways enlarge his little world yourselves, so that he will not seek the Sloam boys for a change or new experience. "Perhaps it might be well," I suggested, "to invite some of his nice schoolmates in to take tea with you. This would probably result in his being invited to eat in some of their homes. This, too, would help to satisfy his hunger for new experiences." We talked on for a while longer and she thanked me for the suggestions I had given. When she rose to go I followed her to the door and saw Jack and Ger121 trude coming across the lot, both warm and flushed by their rapid walk. They were chattering merrily together, evidently they were just returning from one of their long walks together. — "Today is Saturday, and just after our noon meal I chanced to see Jack dressed in his best suit with a stiff collar and a big bow necktie (how he hates those babyish big bows), starting from his home, tugging in a sullen sort of a way at a pair of kid gloves into which he was striving to thrust his hands. Following a short distance behind him were his father and mother, both dressed as for an entertainment. All three seemed out of mood and in a hurry of unpleasant excitement. As they disappeared in the direction of the railway station I surmised that they were going to town, and the thought of them dropped out of my mind. "Tonight, however, Jack's mother came in to see me in quite a flutter of pleasure. She said she had told Jack's father what I had said about Jack's needing a change. "And." she added triumphantly, "he took Jack and me to a vaudeville show this afternoon, and he has promised to take us, or to send us, every Saturday! Won't that be fine? "Gertrude was right, we must get hold of Jack himself!" (Misunderstood Children by Harrison, pp. 96-98.) 2. "If we recognized the nature of the child's play and its importance in developing his life attitudes, this would not so often happen. The child's play is, first of all, serious. He puts into it his whole power, is absorbed and intent, lost in his pursuit, whether it be that of building a block house, loading sand, or pushing his engine up an incline. The play of the child is full of meaning to 122 him, because it is something he has initiated, it is an activity of which he sees the purpose. The child learns largely by means of the satisfaction he derives from an activity; hence the educative value of spontaneous, self-induced activity which is a satisfaction in itself, quite apart from any benefit the child's habits receive. "Play at this age, two years, should aim to give ease in motion, freedom for great physical activity, and opportunity for much absorption through the senses. There must be stairs, boxes, chairs for experimental climbing. A small, stout chair will be used more often to push, to climb on, or to carry, than to sit on. There should be wagons to pull, ropes to swing on, so that arm and back muscles, as well as leg muscles, may learn quick adjustments. Big balls to roll and catch, sand and water for mud pies, utensils to bang and pound with, furnish appeal to several senses. The manipulation of objects fascinates the child. He likes to drive nails into soap, to pour beans from one receptacle into another, to turn the handle of the meat grinder, or put together the separator. "How often he is expected to gain sensory and motor experience in a home where he is constantly told "not to touch"! The two-year-old who climbs on the polished diningroom table is not wantonly mischievous. Providing something to climb on is easier and more constructive than trying to check the child every time he infringes our rules, which, after all, are arbitrarily laid down for the convenience of adults. "The mother who provides opportunities for the child to help in opening and closing drawers and cupboards, in carrying dishes, in hunting RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for articles—in short, who makes use of instead of trying to thwart the child's impulses—will be rewarded by fewer vexatious occurrences. Mothers often complain, "(How can I interest my twelve-year-old in doing her share around the house?" In the same breath they admit that they could never put up with the child's early efforts at helping be'cause it took so much more patience and time "to show the child how than to do it myself." (Faegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, pp. 205-206207.) 3. "What is recreation? Even under the most primitive conditions of existence the whole of man's time and energy is not consumed in those activities directly related to the maintenance of life and the satisfaction of family, economic, civic, and religious interests. After these needs are met a margin of leisure remains. In periods of plenty the savage may have opportunity for giving expression to those impulses which but lightly condition existence; and during the inclement seasons, when the ordinary routine of life is suspended, he may turn his mind to the pursuit of congenial interests. In these moments of leisure man may elaborate the common life and weave into it meanings and appreciations which are not derived from external necessity. Thus grow up in the life of every group the recreational arts— songs, stories, games, dances, ceremonials, and festivals. Among the earliest of human records are the crude drawings of animals scratched on the fragments of bones, or painted on the walls of caves. These were the diversions of the primitive huntsman as in moments of leisure he relived in imagination some exciting adventure of the chase or conLESSON DEPARTMENT templated the thrills of future exploits. Through activity as well as through rest the re-creation of life proceeds." (Chapman and Counts: Principles of Education, pp. 294-295.) 4. Materials for Play: a. "As much as possible of the child's play should be carried on out of doors. We know that in providing play materials for children we must include two types: things which exercise the large muscles, and things which stimulate mental activity. The outdoors is 'the true home of childhood, in this wild, undomesticated stage from which modern conditions have kidnapped and transported him.' But 'for very many children, the pasture and the woodlot have long since been sold, the climbing tree has been chopped down, the barn, even the woodshed, has disappeared.' Facing this change in community life which has brought about the apartment and the neighborhood playground, we must provide substitutes for those thing's which were before a natural part of the environment. If there are not any trees to climb we must have ladders, ropes, horizontal bars. The modern child has no sandy creek in which to play; but the narrowest city lot is roomy enough to include a sand box. ° Every child should have packing boxes to clamber into, or use for store or house if there is no place for a "shack" or "dugout.". "Indoor play space is as important. The mother who prepares to sacrifice for a few years some of her ideas of orderliness and beauty, in order that the child may have freer surroundings, may be rewarded by a calm child with good muscular coordination. In the household where polished surfaces and bric-a-brac are 123 of immediate importance an unstable, irritable child is only too likely to result from the clamor of "don'ts". A punching bag or a trapeze, fitted up in a doorway or on a cellar beam, furnishes an outlet for energy which oftentimes spills over into behavior annoying to adults. If there is no attic or basement to be converted to the children's use, the furnishings of their rooms must be so simple that no qualms will be felt when they get hard use. This does not imply that a child should be encouraged in rough or destructive play. His energy and interests may be building up either good or bad habits, depending on the selection of materials and toys, and the place where he uses them. "Tt is important that we keep in mind when selecting or planning for toys, the growing and changing needs of the child. Too often the eye of the adult is caught by playthings which are of only passing interest to children. To be of value, equipment and materials should be of permanent and lasting nature, and should be readily adaptable by the child as he develops. Blocks furnish a splendid basis for developmental play because they lend themselves to so many uses. Wloden animals, which can be used in building up a farm, furnish a nucleus around which the child may gather interesting and constructive material. Parents are sometimes discouraged because their children fail to use expensive equipment, not realizing that the fault lies in their selection rather than in the child. To a boy of seven, a Meccano set has fascinating possibilities; to a child of four, it is a combination of odds and ends, which he juggles about a bit, and then loses piece by piece." (Child Care and Tiraining: by 124 Faegre and Anderson, pp. 208-209211.) b. Play becomes work when it is made into a competitive program or the goal made more important than the activity of playing. Popular Playground Projects— Recreations, April, 1932: Traveling theater; puppet shows; children's folk theater; reading; handcraft; stories; travelogues— with construction work; music; hikes; flowers and gardens; pets: and pet shows; holiday celebrations by children; festivals; wagons; kidReady made toys RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE die cars; tricycles, doll carriages; sand boxes; rope jumping; lawn games; ball games; checkers; chess etc.; neighborhood square dances; folk dances; return to the imitative —tools, musical instruments, etc.; parties; socials; art hobbies; nature activities; nature notebooks; photography; building blocks; fishing; outing; horseshoe; sewing of variOus types. 'c. Jessie C. Fenton: (A Practical Psychology of Babyhood; Houghton Mifflin, gives the following suggestive list of toys, chapter IT p. 54.) Home made toys One to three months Rattles, strings of beads, celluloid and rubber rings, small animals of rubber or celluloid. Spools, strings of buttons, light spoons, chains made by linking large safety pins together., Three to six months Floating celluloid toys for the bath, bells. Small lids and covers, a cup and spoon, clothes pins, rattles, made of aluminum salt shakers, tea-balls, etc., with small pebbles inside, sheets of clean crisp paper. Six to nine months Light wooden blocks, dolls, toy animals, picture books. Various kitchen utensils: eggbeater, potato masher, wooden butter paddle, etc., hard fruits and vegetables of different shapes, such as oranges, cucumbers, small gourds and squashes. Nine to twelve months Nests of hollow blocks or boxes, blocks, books to use in turning pages as well as to look at, ball, all sorts of manipulative toys: an abacus, small game of quoits, etc. Sets of pans, cups, cans, boxes, etc., which will fit one inside another, jars, bottles, etc., with removable lids to take off and put on, boxes or baskets containing a number of small objects, which may be taken in and out. LESSON DEPARTMENT Home made toys 125 Ready made toys Twelve to fifteen months Primers with simple stories, toys to drag or pull about, a small wagon or wheelbarrow, a bell mounted on wheels, toy animals set on wheels, etc., (such toys should be solid and not too easily tipped over. A two wheeled cart or wheelbarrow is better than a four-wheeled one because less liable to upset in turning corners.) toy replicas of household articles: iron, broom, shovel, dolls, furniture, etc., toy chair to sit on. A cylindrical can or carton impaled on a string or wire so that it will roll as it is dragged about is often even better than toys with wheels at this stage, because it turns in any direction readily without upsetting, pebbles, a bell, or something of the sort, may be put inside to make a noise. Empty boxes and cartons. Fifteen to eighteen months Toy trains, autos, etc., more miniature household articles, crayons and pencils to mark with, toy blackboards, slates, etc. A box to climb upon (an apple box of a good size to climb into and out of. Care should be taken that there are no nails, splinters, etc.) a plank raised at one or, both ends to walk on and bounce on. Eighteen to twenty-four months A sand pile, bucket and shovel, shells, various toys for digging, etc., toys which enable the child to reenact his own real experiences, such as toy airships, farm implements, trains, doll carriages, whatever he has encountered and enjoyed in real life, a swing, more elaborate blocks. Arlitt: (The Child from One to Six) makes the following suggestions: Toys for House Play Doll beds, carriages, stoves, wash tubs, wash boards, clothes pins, chest of drawers containing doll clothes, brooms, sweepers, unbreakable dishes, kitchen utensils: egg beaters, potato masher, flour sifter, screen play house: tea party, chairs and tables. Scrapbooks, made by pasting pictures cut from magazines, etc., in blank books or books made of heavy butcher's paper, blocks made of leftover lumber, etc. Blocks Nest of blocks, large cubes and bricks, architectural blocks, large maple blocks: cut to order. Toys for Block Play Toy animals, a set of trees, Noah's ark, doll house families. Dolls. Unbreakable, rag dolls. 126 Arts and Crafts Materials Modeling clay or plasticine, paints: non-poisonous water colors—provide paper and rubber aprons, crayons and drawing paper, scissors, paste and construction paper, hammer, large nails, and soft wood. Toys for Active Play Pulling toys: carts, wheelbarrow, toy animals on wheels, wagons, riding toys: velocipedes, kiddie car, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE trains, trucks, autos, etc. Horse reins, balls, several sizes. Outdoor Playthings Sand box and sand toys, see-saw, slide, climbing ladder, yard blocks, boxes, swing. Manipulative Material Wooden beads for stringing, large size one inch in diameter.