New Books
"AMERICA SELF-CONTAINED" By Samuel Crowther
In his volume, "America Self-Contained," Samuel Crowther strongly, clearly, forcibly urges that the United States stand alone, working out its own destiny untrammeled by foreign alliances. He says that we can depend upon our own resources, that there is scarcely one important commodity we need import, that we have the inventors and research chemists, the machines and the raw materials that will enable us to compete with all nations. We have the highest purchasing power of any nation. We have "One hundred and twenty millions of people speaking a common language and striving to find a common ideal: natural resources of almost infinite extent and variety; human technical resources which can put to use these natural resources and also create for us by synthesis the few materials which we need and do not possess: ample means to exchange and diffuse such wealth as we may choose to create." He calls attention to the fact that we must, "choose whether we shall take what we have and, making our isolation more complete. Shape our own destinies, or whether we shall break down our isolation, abandon the principles of the founders and accept a standard of life fixed by the lowest common denominator of the world's standards." He says we must decide whether we shall deliberately control our own destiny in the light of science or whether we shall drift on trying somehow to be out of world affairs and still in them. A new freedom is being born, not political but economic "and, just as it was given to the United States to begin a new era in political freedom, so it has come to pass that today the United States, for long the most nearly self-sufficient of nations, has through the labor of her scientists become wholly self-sufficient and hence able to take the leadership in developing a new political economy of freedom. No nation has ever before been given the opportunity to have and to hold a complete liberty and no nation has ever before had the opportunity wholly to shape its own destiny. Even Rome at the pinnacle of her power had to depend on far-flung provinces for the necessities of life. He points out that today, owing to the World War, the United States has no friends among the nations, but rather bitter enemies. "This and only this have we accomplished by dint of nearly two decades of insistent meddling into the affairs of other nations." * * * * "We are back from our crusades richer perhaps in experience, poorer certainly by upwards of twenty billions." He says, "Fortunately we have escaped tangling our affairs with those of the World and have almost achieved isolation." "We have returned—or have been returned, to the posture which George Washington held as prerequisite to perfecting our freedom." "Now we have to decide whether we shall deliberately control our own destinies in the light of science or whether we shall drift on, trying somehow to be out of world affairs and still in them." The book is most stimulating and EDITORIAL is well worth reading.—Published by Doubleday, Doran & Co. Price $2.00.
"BLACK" By B F, Gardner
In "Black", a collection of poems written by B. F. Gardner, whose parents were born under the yoke of Slavery, one reads of the longing and heartbreak of those who feel they could do so much were they 107 not hindered by color. The book is really the voice of the Negro race calling for equal opportunities with the White race and feeling that they should be treated as though they were white. The volume contains many lovely poems voicing a longing to be of service, to uplift the sorrowing, and to scatter sunshine—Published by the Caxton Printers, Price $1.50.