2
EDITORIAL
A Valuable Practice
Matthew Arnold's daughter records that her father each year kept a narrow little book in which he would jot down his engagements and any short or striking sentences that he came across during his daily reading or which he recalled as suitable to his mood. This practice continued for 37 years. The quotations from each fifth year have been printed and they reproduce the portrait of the mind that selected them. Nevinson in his "Books and Personalities" tells us that these quotations came from books universally recognized as containing the best that has been thought. The greatest number came from the best books in the Bible. Extracts from the Psalms and St. Paul's letters are very numerous. There are many from Plato and the Tragedians. From writers after Christ, Goethe's wise sayings are probably the most numerous. The quotations are largely exhortations to definite and constant labor, to work that "fills and moralizes the day." A favorite was the Latin precept, "Always set before yourself some definite aim." The two essentials of good work—isolation and limitation, are emphasized. Again and again do the quotations urge one to disregard the transient and trivial and serve the Eternal alone. The same passages are often repeated after an interval of fifteen years. In later life sentences stress cheerfulness, amiability, patience and the way of peace. One of Arnold's favorite maxims was Goethe's "He that would do good work must never scold, must never trouble himself about the unfitness of things, but simply go on doing good work." Another was, "Oh that thou hadst hearkened unto my commandments! Then had thy peace been as a river." EDITORIAL Constant reference is made to "Thy Law."
Would it not be a good practice for us to invest each year in a little book that would fit into our handbag and jot down some of the most stimulating and beautiful passages we read? This practice has many things to recommend it. Writing the sentences impress them upon 105 the mind. It tends to make them more our own than a casual reading does. We could look over them again and again until we would know most of them. This would enrich our lives, stimulate worthwhile thinking, give us food for thought and for conversation. In after years these books could be brought forth to remind us of thoughts we had treasured through the years.