A Working Plan By Mildred Tobler
In this era of plans and plans for helping other folks, three stakes in the church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have an unusually efficient "way out" for the dependent. These are Utah Stake, Kolob Stake, and Maricopa Stake. The objective of the work is to build the morale of the needy, to make them self-supporting, by giving them temporary aid and furnishing them with employment if possible. The plan has all the advantages of ordinary charity work; with none of its disadvantages. The work in Utah Stake is under the direction of President T. N. Taylor and Sister Achsa P. Paxman, president of the Utah stake Relief Society. Under Mrs. Paxman is a corps of enthusiastic workers, who, through their desire to help, have eliminated nearly all the overhead cost usually necessary to such an organization. The Community Welfare organization takes the place of the regular Relief Society charity work in the wards except that it is centralized as a stake institution. In a sense, its effects are more far-reaching, for it serves both members and non-members of the church. One would never dream, when visiting the little office in the Utah Stake Administration building with its sole occupant, Mrs. Emily Nielsen, distributor of help, that such a complete work is being carried on. Mrs. Nielsen also takes care of the Burial Clothes and this department practically pays the expenses of the Community Welfare organization. Last year, $5,600 was distributed from the office to those in need in Utah Stake, however, this amount included some funds distributed for the county. In the last seven years an average of sixty families a month have been either completely or partially taken care of by the Community Welfare. Some of these cases have needed only temporary aid, as the temporarily unemployed and the seasonally unemployed; while others have required permanent help—orphans, children without parents, or children with disabled parents. The money for these enterprises is obtained from voluntary contributions from members of the stake. The stake stages a drive for funds every six months, and each ward is assessed a certain amount, the amount being determined by the membership and their ability to pay. These funds are sent to the Community office so that every needy family in the stake is uniformly cared for. This provides for a standard distribution among all the wards. Bishops and Relief Society Presidents cooperate in all the plans of this Community Welfare organization. The Community Welfare work is very well organized. Every ward in the stake has a Social Welfare Aid who makes investigations. A complete record of their findings is made and filed at the central office. This includes the names of those in the family who are capable of helping to support A WORKING PLAN 89 the family, physical and mental condition of the father and mother, and any relatives who might be able to help them. No help is given without an investigation, except in extreme cases, when people are without food, or fuel. In these instances an emergency order is sent and an investigation made after. Whenever possible the Community Welfare provides opportunities for work, a chance for a member of the family to go to school and learn a vocation by which he may earn a living, thus increasing his confidence in himself and in his ability to help to better provide for his family. Jobs for School boys and girls are usually filled upon recommendation of the Community Welfare organization. Red Cross clothing materials and flour were distributed by the Dept. Last winter. The county cooperates with them in all ways, giving aid on their recommendation, and supplementing their funds, because their efficiency and dependability in distributing money, food, and clothing to the right people is well-known. When families are known to be lax in managing their incomes appropriated by the organization, their groceries, fuel and clothing are sent to them instead of money. The central and final objective is to reclaim the individual's ability to earn, to make him feel responsible for filling his niche in the scheme of things. One of the most unusual and helpful divisions of the work is taken care of by a health program. When operations are needed, patients are sent to the hospital without charge, the welfare organization paying for the materials and hospitalization, the physicians cooperating with their time and skill. One little boy was eight years old and still in the first grade. He was a teacher's problem, disinterested, slow, unwilling to learn. A community welfare worker sent him to a physician to be examined. It was found that his tonsils were very badly diseased. They were removed six months ago. Now, he is at the head of his class, confident, ready to work, and very interested. His teacher's greatest problem is to find something for him to do. Several children with defective vision were furnished with glasses, which increased their interest in school and their standard in classes. A man with a large family had been unemployed for several years. His personal appearance was seriously affected by very bad teeth which he hadn't had money enough to have fixed. Upon being sent to a dentist and furnished with new teeth, his enthusiasm and his desire to work returned. He searched for work incessantly, something he had given up finding years ago. Finally, he got a respectable job at a living wage and is back in the harness and happy again, with a new lease on life. Mothers are being given prenatal care so that children are being brought into the world without the handicaps caused from undernourished and worried mothers. "Maternity bundles" are distributed to the mothers who would not otherwise be able to clothe their infants nor furnish proper bed linen. In the first nine months of 1933, $683.09 has been spent for health work, The money was obtained as interest on money for grain sold by the Relief Society to the United  States government during the World War. Children whose homes are unsuited for their growth and development as good citizens are placed in private homes and surrounded by a wholesome environment, the county cooperating with the Community Welfare to pay the small board bill. Free lunches at schools are provided by the Parents and Teachers Association and assisted by Community Welfare workers. Begun sixteen years ago when Sister Inez Knight Allen was president of the Utah Stake Relief Society, and Brother Joseph B. Keeler was president of the stake, the work has expanded every year to fit the increasing needs. In the depression years since 1929 it has been one of the most potent factors in providing employment, furnishing necessities of life, and looking after the general welfare of the poor of Utah Stake. It is a plan that might well be followed in any stake that wishes to care for its dependents in the most efficient and encouraging way. Through it, many are brought to realize their possibilities for living with others as independent members of society.