It was obvious that all these accomplishments, the books, the active interests in suffrage, the garden, the tireless and endless help given to students, came not from an idle life. She must have spent tremendous effort every day of her existence to have realized them all. "Yes," she admitted, "I've wasted no time sleeping in the mornings."
She showed me some of her most priceless historical treasures. Turning the leaves of the remarkable diary of John Hunton, a man who was directly connected with Fort Laramie on the Oregon trail for many years, a glow of satisfaction colored her face. "There is great happiness," she said, "in knowing that you have saved something of value from obscurity. Perhaps that is the chief reward of the pathbreaker, because, of course, he is a discoverer."
[THIS IS FIGURE: The image shows "The Shoshone Indians gathered to hear Dr. Hebard give the dedicatory address at the unveiling of the tablet for the Bishop Randall Chapel (the log building in the picture) in commemoration of the day in 1873 when the famous Bishop himself baptized four of Sacajawea's grandchildren"]
The Mirage By Roxana T. Hase Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
Around me miles and miles of trackless sands, Glistening, sifted, wasted, desert lands. My throat grows parched, death stalks my weary wake When through half-blinded eyes I glimpse a lake.
A lake! God grant that I may reach its brink And in its cooling depths my hot face sink To wet my lips, my throat, my red-rimmed eyes, I summon flagging strength to gain the prize
But ever just ahead it beckons me Elusive as the white-caps of the sea. Baffled, I fall; Dear God, must I die so? Never again a cooling draught to know?
Shall desert vultures feed on me ere night? In fancy now I see their circling flight. I, who so love this life, I cannot die Here on these wretched wastes alone to lie
And bleach until white phantom hands Stretch forth and cover me with drifting sands I clutch at glistening grains, desperately crawl Till flesh can stand no more, blindly I fall.
Is this the end? I feel my senses reel Crazily, like a ship with broken keel. This then, is death: Oblivion wraps me 'round My blanket, blazing sky, my couch, the torrid ground.
Then suddenly a cry, and someone tips A canteen to my parched and swollen lips, Cools my hot face; my throbbing, aching brow, I struggle slowly back from chaos to the now
Still thinking of that lake, then as my senses clear I know: 'Tis the mirage, the desert traveler's fear! How like mirages are the things of life So near and yet so far, so filled with strife.
Success seems brightly glittering just ahead But when we reach that spot we find it fled. Passions, fortunes, pleasures, mirages all are they Vain hollow nothings beckoning us astray
Until we quaff that all-sustaining draught— Salvation's Truths—all else must come to naught. The worthwhile things are added when we've learned To follow Him whose teachings once were spurned.
ROXANA T.