Later an old man from the highlands of New York said, "Up there we believe in God and Father Abraham",
Notes from the Field
Our "Magazine Program', in the Springville Third Ward, sponsored by our magazine agent. Charlotta Black, was very interesting and successful. It was carried out as stated below.
1. The song, as outlined in the September magazine, was sung by our ward Relief Society Ladies' Chorus. They were dressed in large cartons decorated to represent covers of the magazine with an open magazine tied with a ribbon for a bonnet.
2. An interesting stunt was put on by twenty-one ladies, each bearing a letter of "Relief Society Magazine". Each lady, in a hat and dress of some member borrowed without the owner's knowledge, recited a comical bit about the lady whose name began with her letter.
3. The five editors then posed in a frame (see accompanying picture ) and short biographies of each were given. A member read "A Little Friend of Mine" from the September 1931 magazine. Two tiny girls in Halloween colors passed slips to the members which read as follows—
We, the members of the Third Ward Relief Society of Springville, resolve to read the Magazine from cover to cover and repeat the reading of each lesson, before the day on which the lesson is given.
Are you a subscriber?.......--Name......-.
This accompanying picture taken of the ladies who represented the past five editors, are as follows:
1. Susa Y. Gates—represented by Mary Ellen Sumsion McKenzie.
LADIES REPRESENTING THE FIVE EDITORS OF  
2. Emmeline B. Wells—represented by Sophia Packard.
3. Lula Greene Richards—represented by Adrian J. Gore.
4, Alice L. Reynolds—represented by Grace Baker.
5. Mary Connelly Kimball—represented by Charlotta Black.
Recently I attended the Salt Lake Stake Union Meeting. It was a joy to see how the supervisors of each department had so many helpful suggestions for their teachers. One wished she could divide herself and go into each section. Each year this Stake selects an aim on which it labors. In various ways it puts it over. On Work and Business Day, this aim is featured. The aim for this year is "We believe in progression through the learning and living of Gospel principles." For the nine months when the Relief Society holds meetings, they have what they call nine stepping stones that develop this aim. I visited the Activity Department and the following helpful things were given.
1. We believe in progression through activity.
2. We believe in progression through study— Magazine, Textbooks, General material.
3. We believe in progression through faith— Deity, Self, Fellow-man.
4. We believe in progression through service.
5. We believe in progression through self-expression.
 . We believe in progression through obedience to law— Land, Church.
7. We believe in progression through appreciation— Membership and the Church, Friendships gained, Opportunities provided.
8. We believe in progression through developing Motherly virtues.
9. We believe in progression through cultivating a love of the beautiful.
A ten-minute talk is given each month on Work and Business Day on these topics. Helpful suggestions and outlines are presented at their Union Meeting to aid the speakers. Collateral music is given, a poem is read, seasonable recipes are given, and for the month following my visit, toys for the kindergarten were shown. This Stake has urged every Ward to have a Kindergarten so that young Mothers may attend. One Sister reported that they did not have any babies in their Association and hence needed no Kindergarten, but conforming to the wishes of the Stake Presidency, they established a Kindergarten and now have many children in attendance. The little folks so love the work given there that some of them ask if they cannot come even when their mothers do not attend Relief Society. The next month "helpful hints in housekeeping" will be presented in this department. The recipes given were for eggless squash pie, green tomato mincemeat, and a Thanksgiving menu that would serve twelve people for $2.90.—K.
Calling in
NOTES FROM THE FIELD El Paso Ward: The following report has been received from El Paso Ward, in St. Joseph Stake: "We are happy to report the work and activities of our Relief Society at El Paso, Texas. Our Annual Day was stressed by the presentation of the playlet contained in the March, 1932 issue of the Magazine, entitled 'The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo. This well rehearsed playlet, under the direction of Sister Zeretta Harris, was well received by the membership of our Ward, who were the guests of the Relief Society for the entire evening, which was devoted to drama, dancing and refreshments."
Yellowstone Stake (Parker Ward): The picture of the pageant "College of Opportunity," is expressive of the enthusiasm and resourcefulness of Relief Society women. This group is a picture of women who successfully carry on the program of education in meetings, 101 President of Parker Ward, with her two counselors—typical Relief Society women homes, vacation camps, everywhere the occasion offers.
COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY, PARKER WARD, YELLOWSTONE STAKE. 102
Teton Stake: Those who have had the privilege of meeting Sister Susannah Sheets Wilson will be interested in the following note, which comes from Teton Stake: "The passing from earth life of Sister Susannah Sheets Wilson, April 1, 1933, caused a sadness among the members of the Relief Society of the Teton Stake. Mrs. Wilson has been connected with this organization in some way ever since the beginning of the stake. She was born in Salt Lake City in 1858. She was married in the old endowment house in 1881, and came to Teton Valley a pioneer in 1887, with her husband, T. R. Wilson. She was chosen first counselor in the Relief Society in the first ward organized, also first counselor in the first stake organized, a position she held for nine years, after which she was chosen stake president. This position she held for thirteen years, when she was released on account of ill health. Mrs. Wilson was well known throughout the Teton Valley, and was loved and admired as a woman of deep faith. She was a true gentlewoman, and took a pride in home-making. Mrs. Wilson is survived by five children, twenty-three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. Her husband, T. R. Wilson, preceded her to the grave in 1929,"
In the Thirty-first Ward of Liberty Stake, a very fine piece of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cooperation between the mothers and daughters is told. This was held on the Work and Business Day, when a very great effort is made to have especially attractive features in addition to the regular program. One particular meeting of this type was held on March 14 of this year, where a splendid opportunity was given to bring the mothers and daughters into closer companionship of interests. The Gleaner project for the past two years has been, "I will gather Treasures of Truth." The purpose of this is to stimulate the girls to gather the history of their ancestors with interesting and faith-promoting stories of the pioneers. This vital material is compiled by each girl in a book of her own making, and it is called "Treasures of Truth." In order to accomplish this extremely worthwhile effort, every girl must have the helpful cooperation of her mother. This was very successfully done on the day indicated, and some of the mothers brought articles of historical value, and many interesting and valuable stories of pioneer life were related. This Ward is working on a plan which will include many mothers who do not have daughters of Gleaner age, but who will be able to contribute stories and experiences which are most valuable. These will be compiled in a Ward Book together with a history of the Ward, and will be accessible to all.