Building a Diet By Lucy Rose Middleton
The housewife who has become more or less familiar with technical terms such as vitamins, proteins, calories, minerals, etc., will naturally inquire how she may select foods to cover these fundamental nutritional requirements. In recent years entirely too much propaganda has been circulated about certain dietary theories which have caused unnecessary and even foolish adherence to temporary fads. Radio health talks, usually given for advertising purposes, often prove a source of misinformation. The relative value of a product to be sold is overstated. No effort is made to distinguish proved facts from speculative theories. Laboratory experiments on food requirements are of great value, both from a scientific and a practical standpoint, but we must beware of drawing too many conclusions from them. This is illustrated by the tremendous and revolutionary changes in nutritional "dogma" from year to year. Who would have dared twenty years ago to give a baby orange juice, spinach, or tomato juice? Our grandmothers would have been horrified to see babies fed in this manner. Even today, infant feeding is by no means an exact science and doubtless coming years will see further changes. In the same household there are generally persons of widely different food requirements. The baby cannot be fed like the five-year-old boy. Nor the five-year-old like his football playing brother. The dainty fare which is best suited to a school teacher would be scorned by a farm laborer whose energy requirement is very much higher. These divergencies are more in quantity and mode of service than in kind. With a few adjustments it is possible to keep the family well and happy on a meal composed of practically the same ingredients, if suitably cooked and apportioned. Infants and children young enough to require specially prepared foods are best cared for by themselves. As is well known, the energy value of foods is measured in terms of calories. All foods when burned in the body yield a definite number of calories. It is said that some large establishments now purchase coal in terms of the number of heat units a ton will yield, but we have not yet reached the point of buying food by the calory. Nevertheless, when we prepare a meal the caloric values should be kept in mind. In addition, we must not neglect any of the components of a scientifically adequate diet. Our biggest source of foods is grain products, which are primarily valuable for the production of energy. Foods from this group include bread, corn, crackers, macaroni, and rice, as well as breakfast foods. They are our most economical part of the diet. From one-third to one-half of the total calories of an adult may come from this source. Emphasis should be placed on the use of the grains with the bran and germ retained, since they contain minerals and vitamins. Milk is a great protector in the diet. It is important for its supply of calcium, phosphorus, and other minerals. Even in the adult diet a liberal amount should be included at  all times. A pint a day for adults and a quart for children is a good rule. Milk also contains protein and may serve as a partial substitute for meat, which is an expensive protein food. Eggs, too, are rich in protein, and in this respect are the equivalent of meat. All nutrition experts stress the importance of a plentiful supply of fresh fruits and vegetables because of their richness in vitamins and minerals, and also because of their laxative properties. Tables, carrots, tomatoes and citrus fruits are particularly valuable, and should be used frequently. At least ten per cent of our. Total calories should come from this group, and more if the cost is not prohibitive. Fats and oils are by far the richest foods in the number of calories per pound. They are so nutritious that most persons are satisfied with relatively small amounts. They include butter, cream, suet, bacon, and oils. Fats usually contribute ten to twenty per cent of our daily caloric requirement. Sugar serves as a fuel food only. It adds greatly to the palatability of the diet without supplying vitamins, mineral ash, or other building material. Not more than ten per cent of our calories should come from sugar. The following are 100 calorie portions of some common foods: Milk...............5/8 cup Bread...............2 thin slices Butter.......1 scant tablespoonful Sugar..............2 tablespoonfuls Eggs................11/3 eggs Oatmeal................1/3 cup Potatoes.........1 medium sized Bananas...........1 large Lettuce............2 large heads Apples............1 large Green vegetables.....14 cups
Peach Dumplings 1 1/4 cups flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons shortening 1/2 cup milk 6 peaches 6 tablespoons sugar
Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together; rub shortening in lightly. Add enough milk to make a soft dough. Roll out to 1/4 inch thick on slightly floured board. Divide into six pieces and lay pared fresh peach or two halves of canned peach on each piece of dough. Sprinkle with sugar. Moisten edges of dough and fold up around peach; press tightly together. Place in buttered baking dish, sprinkle with sugar and top each dumpling with a piece of butter. Bake 40 minutes if fresh peaches are used and 20 minutes if canned ones are used. Oven temperatures should be 350 degrees F. Serve with a hard sauce or plain cream.
Crusty Apricot Puff 3/4 lb. Dried apricots 3/4 cup light brown sugar 5 tablespoons butter 1 cup flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 cup milk
Soak the apricots over night or several hours in warm water to cover. Rub two tablespoons of softened or creamy butter over the bottom and sides of a pie plate or baking dish. Spread half of sugar evenly over the butter and lay the apricot halves in circles to cover dish. Sprinkle the remaining sugar over them. Make an ordinary dumpling mixture and spread in a thin sheet to cover the apricots. Dot plentifully with butter. Put into a hot oven, 400 degrees F, After 5 minutes reduce the heat to BUILDING A DIET 95 325 degrees F. Bake until brown, and serve with hard sauce or plain cream.
Graham Cracker Pudding 1/4 lb. Graham crackers 1/4 lb. Marshmallows, cut fine 1 cup chopped nuts 1 cup chopped dates 1 cup thin cream or top milk
Mix crackers (rolled fine), marshmallows, walnuts, dates and cream slowly until the mixture is moist enough to form a roll. Wrap in waxed paper and place in refrigerator and allow to stand for several hours. Slice and serve with whipped cream or a thin custard.