The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Volume XIX MARCH, 1932 No. 3
"I now turn the key to you in the name of God and this society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days to this society. * * * Let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforth." ?Joseph Smith, the Prophet. March 17, 1842
March 17, 1932
If you knew all the facts about Coal you'd insist upon receiving?
SPRING CANYON OR ROYAL COAL
"Hot 'n Clean AT A MINIMUM OF EXPENSE"
Ask Your Good Friend the Coal Dealer
Genuine KNIGHT Spring Canyon and ROYAL Coal mined in Utah exclusively by
Knight Fuel Co. Royal Coal Co.
General Offices 8th Floor Newhouse Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 1676 Phone Wasatch 1320
LEONARD E. ADAMS, General Sales Agent
Invest in Home Prosperity
USE BEET SUGAR
Knee Length, ? Length Legs or Old Styles. Super Non-Run Rayon Elbow and Knee Length $1.29; Three Pair $3.65
In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted, also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 15c. Postage prepaid.
Cutler's GARMENT CO. 36 So. Main New Address: 240 Constitution Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
for a Clean, Hard, Hot Fire
No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton 75c; Three Pair $2.10 No. 76 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Lisle $1.10; Three Pair $3.10 No. 64 Light Med. Wt. Bleached Double Back $1.19; Three Pair $3.35 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back $1.29; Three Pair $3.65
for Fast, Intense, Clean Heat
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 19 March, 1932 No. 3
CONTENTS

Presidents of the Relief Society Frontispiece
Birthday Vesta Pierce Crawford 129
Our Ninetieth Anniversary Amy Brown Lyman 131
The General Board of the Relief Society (Portrait) 136
Greetings from the Presidency of the Relief Society 137
An Appreciation Presiding Bishopric 138
A Tribute to the Relief Society President Bryant S. Hinckley 140
March Annie Wells Cannon 141
Birthdays Bishop Nicholas G. Smith 142
Hail! Church Mother! Vernald William Johns 143
The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo Alice Driggs Brown and Jane Cutler Weaver 144
Hyrum Gibbs Smith George Albert Smith, Jr. 150
Vitalizing Resolutions President Louise Y. Robison 153
A Visit to the Members of the First Relief Society Vesta Pierce Crawford 155
Masonic Hall, Nauvoo 159
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 160
It Pays to Advertise Harrison R. Merrill 161
The Joy of Service Sarah M. McLelland 163
Two Prayers Lula Greene Richards 164
"The Least of These" Albert R. Lyman 166
Notes to the Field 168
Notes from the Field 174
Editorial—The Relief Society as a Means of Self Realization 178
The National Council's Participation in the Century of Progress Exposition 179
Hyrum Gibbs Smith 180
Woman's Christian Temperance Union 180
Happening Claire Stewart Boyer 181
Lesson Department 182
Recalling My Edith E. Anderson 187

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
Cal LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.

DINWOODEY'S
You will always find Dinwoodey's has lower prices and better Furniture.
ESTABLISHED 1852
DINWOODEY'S "GOOD FURNITURE"

L.D.S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
82 Fine rib. Cotton, Lt. Wt 1.50 256 Med. Wt. Firmly Knit cot 1.65 1124 Med. Wt. Wool and cot. Mixed 2.50
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
464 Med. Lt., Ribbed cot $.95 147 Spring needle, combed cot 1.10 98 Special Rayon, Ladies 1.28 208 Med. Lt., cot., Ecrue or White 1.35 226 Med. Lt. Rayon Striped 1.45 624 Lt. Wt. Luster Lisle $1.75 808 Run resisting Rayon 1.95 742 Med. Hvy., cot., Ecrue or White 1.75 904 Unbleached cot., Extra Heavy 2.00 1118 Med. Hvy., wool and cot. Mixed 3.50

L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies' number $1.25
No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight Cotton, bleached or unbleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style 1.25
No. 3 Ribbed medium weight Cotton, Ladies' new style 95 or old style 1.50
No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight Unbleached cotton. Our double back number. Men's new or old style 1.50
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style 2.75
No. 6 Light weight Cotton, our standard garment for ladies only, new style only 1.00
No. 7 Light weight Spring and Autumn garment. Men only, new style only 1.00
No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies old style 2.00 Non-Run 1.95
No. 9 Medium weight Silk for men and women, new style only.
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order. Special discount to missionaries.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street

100 "Glads" $2.30
Comprised of 8 Choice Named Sorts Postpaid A Regular $4.25 Catalog Value
For Real Joy Grow GLADS
When the soft spring days make you long to be outdoors and dig in the earth, plant a garden of glads. This is the period of color, so why not "paint" your entire landscape with the exquisite colors of gladioli—gay borders along your flagstone walk—or among your perennials. Plant in April and every 10 days until July 1st for late summer flowers. Enjoy the thrill of seeing your new shoots develop into beautiful blossoms to last all summer long. Gladioli are easy to raise and they bloom readily in any soil or climate at little cost.
T. G. HARRISON GARDEN SUPPLIES AND SERVICE 863 Ramona Ave. HY. 7085 SALT LAKE CITY Brainard Cottonwood
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Birthday
By Vesta Pierce Crawford
(In Memory of the Organization of the Relief Society Ninety Years Ago)
Mists of many years have fallen on Nauvoo But the women brave who labored there This day in glowing memory live anew, And from altered arch of time and space They reach their eager hands to us, For we as daughters of that steadfast race, Have sought to follow where they passed And find the widow and the orphaned one; In paths where want and sorrow walk Still work of love and charity is done; And yet we could not serve so well, Or seek with faith for wisdom's road to go Had you not set an ensign on our way, O valiant sisters of the long ago!
EMMA SMITH ELIZA R. SNOW ZINA D. H. YOUNG 1842-44 1866-87 1888-1901
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH EMMELINE B. WELLS CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS 1901-1910 1910-21 1921-28
LOUISE Y. ROBISON 1928—
PRESIDENTS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XIX MARCH, 1932 No. 3
Our Ninetieth Anniversary
By Amy Brown Lyman
ON the ninetieth birthday of the Relief Society our hearts are filled with gratitude, appreciation, wonder and admiration for our beloved organization. We are filled with reverence for its mission and its past colossal achievements; and have hope and faith for its future prospects and development. Like a great beacon light it has been sending forth its rays for nearly a century, lighting the pathway of its members and of those who have been recipients of its benefactions.
Birthdays are mile posts for both individuals and institutions. It is customary on such occasions for those concerned to review and take stock, to indulge in reminiscences, to recount blessings, to turn questioning eyes on the future, to rededicate efforts to ideals, principles and standards.
The official recognition of the women of the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842 is one of the many outstanding evidences of the inspiration, wisdom and unusual leadership of this modern prophet, and one of the evidences also that the gospel was restored in its fulness. Through divine inspiration he turned the keys and opened the door for Latter-day Saint women to take their proper place in this Church and kingdom. On the 17th of March of that year the Relief Society was established in Nauvoo, Illinois, under his personal direction, for humanitarian, educational, and spiritual purposes, and ever since that time has stood as one of the distinctive organizations of women in the United States, advocating what has been best in our present-day civilization.
The story of the organization meeting, which was held in the old Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, has been told and retold by those who were present, and chronicled time and again in our publications; but it never loses interest. There were present on that occasion twenty-one in all: President Joseph Smith, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor, and the eighteen women who had been invited to this initial meeting, and who thus became the charter members of the Society. Officers for the organization were chosen and voted upon. A name was selected, and instructions given by the brethren on the object and purposes of the Society, on the order of conducting meetings, and on general procedure. A charity fund was also begun.
In contemplating the life and work of the Relief Society we naturally go back to the beginning and follow it down through the years—back to its birthplace and setting, and there, either because of sentiment or historic interest, or both, we love to linger in our thoughts. To Latter-day Saints Nauvoo has been a sacred place, beloved of their parents and grandparents, founded by the Prophet and famed for its beautiful location, its rapid growth and development, its excellent and liberal charter, and its fine community standards. "In four years' time it rose from a few tumbledown shacks to the dignity of being the first city in Illinois in population and commercial enterprise." At the end of its sixth year the population was twenty thousand. Who can tell what the city might have become but for the tragedies which befell it just in the wake of this phenomenal growth and success?
At the time the Relief Society was organized, the city was only three years old and with a population variously estimated at from three to seven thousand. Where could be found a finer or more interesting setting for a new and important organization like that of the Relief Society than this newly founded and rapidly growing place with lovely homes and a beautiful temple in course of construction, and in whose every development the women of the Church played an important part.
While the Relief Society functioned here in a fully organized capacity only two years, from March 17, 1842, to March 16, 1844, and while there were many dark and anxious days during this period, followed so soon by the most tragic events, it accomplished a wonderful work in feeding the poor, clothing the naked, housing the homeless, comforting those depressed in spirit, promoting faith and courage and in helping to raise funds to complete their beloved temple. Its membership grew from eighteen to 1310.
In our mind's eye we can see those early workers in that first meeting, sitting in silence and wonder, full of hope and expectation. We can see them later in action conducting their meetings with grace and dignity. We see them going to and fro through the streets of the city, dressed in their full skirts reaching to the ground, with tight bodices and long sleeves, and such outer wraps as manteaus or shawls, and with straw or shirred silk bonnets trimmed both outside and in with flowers, and wearing black or white net mitts on their hands.
The Nauvoo Relief Society women became the pioneer women of the plains, now without organization but filled with the spirit of their work and carrying it on individually, for there was plenty to do on those perilous journeys. In spite of the hazards of traveling and of the suffering and sorrows through which they passed, they were brave and courageous and more than willing to help blaze the trails across the great American desert to found an empire in the West.
As pioneer life in Utah developed into village life, in each town and hamlet there was organized a Relief Society. In 1854, ten years after the last meeting in Nauvoo, ward organizations were being formed and in a few years more they were on a sound operating basis. The ward organizations were later linked together into stake organizations by President Brigham Young, beginning in 1877, and in 1880 a Central Board was organized to preside over all the Relief Societies of the Church. In 1892 the Board was enlarged and given the title, General Board of Relief Society.
On its fiftieth anniversary, the membership was 25,300; on its seventy-fifth, it was 45,339, and on its ninetieth, it is 64,225.
As the organization grew and developed, its activities were enlarged and extended to meet the needs of each period of time, until today it has grown into the mammoth organization which is now known so well everywhere. In the founding and developing of the state of Utah, the women of the Relief Society had a prominent part, and while their attention was primarily directed to welfare work, they were helpful in every endeavor. Among their early activities were the founding of the Deseret Hospital in 1882, which was the forerunner of the Church hospitals of today; the training of nurses; the establishment of a silk industry which was successful for many years; the operation of their own cooperative stores where they exchanged among other things the products of their labor; the building of Relief Society halls where they held meetings and where they gathered to sew, knit, remodel clothing, make quilts, carpets, etc., for the needy and for funds for their treasuries; the gathering and storing of grain for times of need. They joined the women of the nation in their work for suffrage and peace, and later became affiliated with the National Council of Women. All this was done in addition to their charity and relief work. Educational work for members became a feature in 1902 and has developed until today it is one of the most important projects of the organization.
The Relief Society as an organization has been fortunate in many respects, both from a Church standpoint and from a general standpoint—fortunate in its origin and broad foundation, in its form of organization, its method of operation, the broad scope in both organization and program, the particular period of its existence, in the spirit which has permeated it, and in the devotion of its members. Most important of all it was organized, as has been stated, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was also the founder and president of the Church to which it is auxiliary. It was founded by revelation and under the authority of the holy Priesthood. Such an origin alone naturally gave it great momentum.
Next in importance to the origin of the Society is the spirit which has permeated its work throughout: the spirit of love and sacrifice and service, of progress and inquiry, the spirit which submits to divine authority—the spirit of the gospel. Never has this spirit failed or even faltered in all these ninety years. In its infancy, the organization with all its activities was fostered and supported and developed by the Prophet and was by him made a part of the regular charity system of the Church. It has had the same guidance and supervisory care and support of all of his successors in the Presidency of the Church, as well as of the local Priesthood in stakes and wards. With such universal help and encouragement it could not fail. Being a part of the Church and working so closely with the Church, has given impetus to its entire program.
Its many sided educational work embracing history, literature, art, social science and religion, has reached practically all the mature women of the Church. No woman's organization anywhere can boast of better training than is given in the Relief Society course of study, nor of a larger class enrollment. Its civic projects in health, sanitation and community development have succeeded beyond expectation. Its philanthropic work has been especially fortunate for there is a close relationship between religion and charity. The influence of religion upon the instincts of man is apparent in any consideration of either charity or religion.
The organization was formed when the Church was only twelve years old, and only twenty-two years after the marvelous vision of the Boy Prophet, which ushered in the new dispensation and made way for the restoration of the gospel. Its work therefore covers practically the whole period of the Church's existence. In the development of the Church itself and in all its experiences and dramatic incidents, the Relief Society has had some part. It is therefore rich in historic interest, tradition and experience. Few organizations can point to such a variety of experiences.
Its form and type of organization and its method of operation are patterned after those of the Church. This gives it a sound basis and a foundation especially efficient for functioning. It has had marvelous opportunity for growth and expansion, due to the fact that as soon as a branch of the Church has been firmly established in any given locality, opportunity has been given for the organization of a local unit of the Relief Society, and as the Church has grown and spread, so has the Relief Society. Through this gradual but constant extension, it now covers geographically practically the entire Church. This means that it encircles the globe and is national and international in scope.
In addition to these considerations and advantages, the Society was fortunate in coming into existence in the nineteenth century—the wonderful century which seemed to stand upon the shoulders of its predecessors, thus gaining broader outlook and vision; the century with which began the modern renaissance. The life of the organization has thus paralleled a golden period in history in which there has been greater all around progress than in the whole preceding historical period; a time when the world was unconsciously preparing itself for the fostering and growth of religious freedom and for the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It has witnessed also the most important period in the whole history and development of social work.
The world today is very different from that of one hundred years ago when the Church was organized. New methods of locomotion have been inaugurated, new methods of conveying thought and sound discovered, labor saving devices have been invented, and striking progress has been made in the educational and social world. One hundred years ago there were no steamships and Church immigrants were weeks crossing the ocean. Parley P. Pratt and family were ten weeks on a voyage from England to New Orleans in 1843. Farmers were harvesting by hand, women were doing all their sewing by hand, and nobody could send a telegram or cablegram. No woman could enter a college anywhere in the world. No woman could vote. A married woman had no legal status—she could not hold property, she could not use her own earnings without the consent of her husband; she could not act as a guardian and control the person or property of her children; she could not under any circumstances secure a divorce.
A brief statement of some of the achievements since that time will show the progress made. Among them are railways, steamships, automobiles, airships; electric telegraph, wireless telegraph, telephone, radio, phonograph; photography, moving and talking pictures; friction matches, gas illumination, electric lights; typewriting machines, sewing machines; anesthetics, antiseptic surgery, germ theory of disease, X-ray, preventive health work; prohibition; scientific welfare work, abolition of slavery, emancipation of woman. In listing these accomplishments, however, we must not overlook some of the tragic failures—the failure to eliminate war, poverty, crime and disease.
The winning of suffrage, which came about only after a struggle of seventy-two years, from 1848 to 1920, was of great moment to women. That there was lack of progress for women through the preceding centuries is shown when one compares the ideas of Plato in 387 B. C. with those of a New England minister in 1840. Plato affirmed that he who failed in this world would in the next be changed to a woman, and the New England minister said that the degradation of slaves and the degradation of women was approved of God and that he could prove it by the Bible.
In the early nineteenth century women found they had inadequate opportunity for development and little influence in public affairs. When they undertook to work for the anti-slavery cause in 1837, and for temperance, they found they were curtailed and hemmed in on every side, and while Susan B. Anthony began her public work in the interest of temperance and made her first public address in this cause in 1847, she became convinced with others that the only path to victory for women in any cause was through suffrage, and so she with others dedicated herself to this work.
Today women are working successfully in many fields—in business, education, research work, in music and art, in the professions of law and medicine and social work. We hear of successful women business managers, college presidents, and professors, artists and musicians, social experts, lawyers, doctors, women mayors, legislators, congressmen and senators, theatrical producers and aviators. The advancement which has been made by and for women in one hundred years is astounding.
In the face of the past progress and development of the Relief Society, its present officers and members will surely sense their responsibility for its future—and a tremendous responsibility it is. They cannot sit idly by and rest on past achievements. This is a day of enlightenment and progress and if they succeed in carrying on the work in a large way they must have faith, vision, courage, and knowledge, all of which are fundamental to leadership.
"What I do hereafter for charity I shall do through this Society."—Joseph Smith, the Prophet
THE GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
GREETINGS
By the Presidency of the Relief Society
OUR Relief Society will be ninety years old on March 17, 1932. It has made a glorious record of achievement, having grown from a charter membership of eighteen into an organization exceeding sixty-four thousand members. It is affiliated with the most influential women's organizations of the United States and has a creditable world standing. Incorporated in 1892 under the laws of Utah, it has since been officially known as the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
AS one thinks over the work of the Relief Society during the past ninety years, the care of the sick, the poor, and the needy of the Church is its most significant service. This objective has been its guiding star since it was expressed at the first meeting, March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Its work has been to seek out those who need material help—those who have met with sickness or financial reverses, causing helplessness and suffering. Into the homes of such, the Relief Society has entered—a blessing from heaven and a friend in need. If it were possible for those who have been helped by the Relief Society to proclaim their appreciation, a mighty host would be loud in their praise and thanksgiving.
IN its methods of distributing charity the Relief Society has always endeavored to help people to help themselves, practicing the philosophy that the most successful charity is that which preserves and builds up the self-respect of those who need aid. To carry on this work has required the unselfish devotion of many volunteer leaders. It is doubtful whether any other organization in the world can be found with the same number of devoted unselfish workers who, without thought of financial reward, give their time to the welfare of those in unfortunate circumstances. IN its program of helpfulness, the Relief Society has not limited itself to discovering and administering to the needy alone. Its great power has been felt in a constructive, educational program. In the Church among its members and reaching far beyond its membership its program of health education, care of infants, home budget making, improved home sanitation, better housekeeping, more beautiful home surroundings, and other similar topics must be recognized as among the most important influences for happiness and success of the people. The Relief Society is then, both an efficient relief agency and a strong practical educational institution. TO the officers and members of the Relief Society the world over, the — presidency sends greetings, confidence, and good will. It is an opportunity and a blessing that has come to each one to fill a place in an organization at once so necessary, so useful, and with such great possibilities. May the splendid spirit which has characterized the organization during the past ninety years continue with it and motivate the work of each officer and each member. A great and glorious work lies ahead.; Louise Yates Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia Alleman Child. An Appreciation By the Presiding Bishopric Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon, Bishop David A. Smith, Bishop John Wells "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction and to keep himself unspotted from the world." James 1:27. HE declaration of the Apostle James is the spirit of the Relief Society which was organized by the! Prophet Joseph Smith, later expanded by President Brigham Young, and now organizations are found in every ward of the Church. Under the fostering care of the Priesthood and the splendid efforts of the women who have presided over the Relief Society, the organization has grown from a few members in 1842 to 'more than 64,000 devoted Latter-day Saint women. There are now over 10001: organizations in the stakes of Zion and approximately 400 organizations of the Relief Society in the missions. It is a society for benevolence, education and progress among women. Its purpose is to advance in every legitimate manner the welfare of women, having in view particularly the stabilization of family life. It assists in caring for the poor and unfortunate. It labors under the direction of the bishop to alleviate poverty, sickness, ignorance, distress and other similar conditions prevailing among the sisters of the Church which deter the development and progress of Latter-day Saint family life. No other organization is better adapted for this work. We sincerely appreciate the close cooperation of the General Presidency and Secretary of the Relief Society in their labors in supervising the work of the Relief Society. The weekly meetings held with them have been the means of coordinating the work of the bishoprics of wards and the local Relief Societies. By this means problems connected with service to the poor and afflicted have been passed upon and a definite program outlined. The care of the poor is the duty of the Priesthood. This responsibility is placed upon the bishopric of each ward. The Relief Society is the chief aid to the bishopric. It is our earnest desire that the bishoprics shall invite the Relief Society officers to meet with them once a month or oftener, if necessary, to consider general relief work, plans for looking after the poor, the sick and those in distress. At these meetings the Relief Society officers will report their labors and receive advice and counsel from the bishopric in dealing with their special activities in the ward. 'We have urged upon the bishops that thorough investigations be made when unfortunate members of the Church apply for help so that intelligent and constructive work can be done with these unfortunates. All such work should be done in conformity with the spirit and practice of the Church, with a sympathetic and kindly attitude toward those who are in need of help. We heartily endorse the Relief Society institutes, several of which are held each year. These institutes are for the purpose of training Relief Society officers and members AN APPRECIATION in the best methods of caring for the poor. Our success in the past has been because of the ward units, which have helped to preserve high spiritual conditions, and this should be the keynote and basis of all Relief Society work in conjunction with the bishoprics of the wards. It is one of the essentials of all Relief Society work to help people to get their own livelihood. Therefore, there is vital need for training Latter-day Saint women, imbued with the spirit of the Gospel, in the better methods of caring for the poor. We hope that in the near future every ward will have at least one worker trained in the fundamentals of social work. The Relief Society has made an enviable record. Voluntary service is the spirit of the work, as it is of the Church. With the exception of a few paid workers in social service, all Relief Society activities are administered without cost. These workers proceed like neighbors helping neighbors. They are keeping in mind the two great commandments of the Lord: To love God and to love their neighbor. Not only do the activities of the Relief Society deal directly with 139 the poor, but many thousands of bottles of fruit and vegetables have been provided; thousands of articles of clothing have been made by members of the Society; old clothes have been gathered and remade for distribution to the poor. Temple work and numerous other activities have been encouraged. The interest on the wheat fund has been used almost entirely for child welfare and maternity purposes. The present depression has called for tremendous efforts from the Relief Society organizations. There has not only been the care of the poor, but the problem of the unemployed, and how nobly have these sisters, with the help of the bishoprics, arisen to this occasion and met the situation of poverty, distress and unemployment, and have alleviated these conditions as far as it was in their power. Their work has been so well done that the statement has been made that there is less suffering from the depression among Latter-day Saints than in any other community. May the Relief Society, in all its functions, grow and expand in usefulness and in the ideals for which it was organized. A Tribute to the Relief Society By Bryant S. Hinckley, President of Liberty 'Stake NE familiar with the objectives of the Relief Society, with its plan for rendering service, with the spirit which motivates its endeavors and the personnel of the organization would be lacking in the finer sentiments of appreciation if he did not cheerfully avail himself of every opportunity to say some word of commendation and encouragement. In point of age this organization is, among the auxiliaries, the senior, and in point of service, the superior. All people whether they belong to this Church, to any other church, or to no church, are interested in practical religion. It is the fine art of living and of helping others to live. The members of this Society come as near practicing true religion as defined in holy writ as any people we know anything about. The Master, in the allegory of The Last Judgment, as recorded in Matt. 25:34, 36, explains with matchless beauty and _ simplicity what religion really is. "Then shall the King say unto them, on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit. The kingdom prepared for you from the foundations of the world: "For I was hungered, and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a thane! And ye _ took me in: "Naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me." James (1:27) has this to say: "Pure religion and undefiled, before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their to new endeavor. Affliction and to keep himself unspotted from the world." The practices of this Society square with these standards. This organization gives more in service and in material aid at a smaller cost than any other relief organization in the world. (For sincere, gratuitous, sacrificial service its members stand in a class by themselves. A typical "'Mormon" Relief Society woman is what Kingsley calls "A natural kingdom-of heaven-ite." The writer calls to mind a Relief Society woman, past middle life, the mother of five, plain looking, plainly clad; she will never have a monument erected to her memory. [She knows very little of the meaning of luxuries and does not have all of the comforts of life. Few people outside her circle know anything about her; but her recording angel is writing a record bright with deeds of mercy. She carries about in her luminous soul the divine art of making peace, of planting hope in the forlorn heart, restoring confidence, banishing gloom, adjusting discords, dispelling fear and encouraging people We do not know what disappointments, what sorrows, are concealed in her own life. They are there but she never murmurs. — Somehow it is given to this woman to sweeten bitter experiences, to plant faith in bleak and barren lives, to uproot grudges and assuage grief. She has a sympathetic understanding of the problems of young people. They love her and go to her; she knows how to help them and to inspire them to finer A TRIBUTE TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY endeavor. She is just one of those great souls who live among the plain people and are not always discovered—a real Relief Society worker, and there are many like her. Beside all its relief work the Society does an inestimable service to those who work for it. It has a carefully elaborated program. It is an enlightened scheme of adult education skillfully adapted to the needs of the people. This leads its members into new fields of interest and inspiration, taking the drab and monotony out of many lives and helping them to discover gifts and talents which have lain dormant. The story is told of a farmer who, learning that his neighbor's wife had been taken to the mental hospital, went over to offer to his friend such solace as he could. In the course of the conversation the disconsolate husband told him that 141 he couldn't account for the misfortune that had come to his wife for, he said, "she hadn't been out of the kitchen for thirteen years." The contribution which this organization has made to the home is manifest on every hand. Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, Julia A. I) Lund 'and those associated with them in administering the affairs of this organization are women of faith, intelligence and nobility of character, typical of the finest womanhood of the land. Their leadership wins the affection and secures the cheerful allegiance of their associates. We say, without reservation, that this organization reflects the spirit and genius of "Mormonism" to the everlasting credit of this people, and its record is the pride and glory to every ward and stake in the Church. March By Annie Wells Cannon O, March, a foolish rogue you are, Whistling tales to the polar star, For in a lilac bush today A med-lark sang a roundelay, A scarlet-winged oriole Trilled once more his madrigal, While down beneath a leafy bed A purple violet hid its head, The south wind blew with such a pace The mask fell off your smiling face. Birthdays By Bishop Nicholas G. Smith SOME folks don't even know when their birthday comes: others make of it a great occasion; then again others go right on with their work, paying little heed to when their anniversary rolls around. Yet, why should we not bless the day that gave us an Edison, a Lincoln, a Washington? These lines are my tribute to the birthday of as great an organization as exists in the world today,—the Relief Society. Since it first was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, hundreds of thousands of people have been blessed through its agency. If you will pardon illustrations that come close home—a family consisting of five moved into our ward. Through sickness the father had to give up hard labor which his family were dependent upon. He was unable to do any other kind of work because he did not know how. The Relief Society sisters called on him and after going into his case, reported to me that 'the must be fitted for some kind of work. They had decided on the job that would suit and had worked out a way to teach him the new line. They also had, provided to feed his family until he was proficient enough to support them. The plan was successful, This incident occurred four years ago. A few weeks ago this man came in to see me. His face was beaming as he said, "Bishop, everything is going fine, I am surely thankful to the Relief Society in your ward for setting me free." A wreck, if you please, off the rocks, into safe waters, a useful citizen and all credited to the Relief Society. Should not this man's voice be raised in everlasting praise and thankfulness that such an organization had a beginning, a birthday? And thousands like him, when hunger, distress, sickness and death come: into their homes, have found succor in this same organization. Now think of these devoted women who have been the bearers of good will. Think how their hearts swell when they see that through them one of our Father's children has been helped. What an opportunity for growth—what an opportunity for happiness has been opened up to them through this birthday. How much better they can bear their own sorrows after having been so close to others' broken hearts. My relief Society president was called out late one night to an elderly sister who was in dire distress. Alone, she made her way to the little shack where lived the needy one, and just at the door she slipped and fell on the ice, breaking her leg in such a serious way that for months she lay in the hospital and was confined there for nearly a year. Her great regret, as expressed to me, was that she was unable to render any assistance to the sister whom she had set out to help and who had died a few days after. Such love, such devotion! Truly this is religion, for "pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the BIRTHDAYS world." How thankful for this birthday are these tens of thousands of devoted workers who are given such an opportunity to live a true religious life. How thankful are hundreds of thousands of people for this birthday. To their own door, once a month, one or more of the active workers of this organization call, bringing to them an opportunity to help, thus giving them a chance to find real joy. 143 Now for the Bishop — what a birthday—and what a life it would be without a Relief Society. Every day of my life I need it—every day of my life I call on it for help— every day of my life I pray for it. May the favor of our Heavenly Father ever rest upon this organization and the wonderful women who make up its membership and may the day of its birth and the. Manner of its birth ever be held in sacred remembrance by all Israel. Hope when we faltered, cheered us when sad.. Hail! Church Mother: By Vernald William Johns Four score and ten are the years you have blessed us, Since by a Prophet to serve you were bade, Succor you've brought when ill fortune o'er took us, Hope when we faltered, cheered us when sad. Blessed in your labor of kindly devotion, Years have brought wisdom and grace to your brow; From every rank and from every station, Lady of Mercy, we honor you now. Called to go forth and bring aid to the suffering, Greater than dreamed was the task that you had: Oft prayers and smiles were more needed than clothing, Work was required more often than bread; Literature, science, religion, you study, Character, knowledge and growth is your aim; Youthful in vision you seek work and beauty, Lady of Mercy,: Woman of Culture, Old in experience, In vision full young,— Hail to you, Mother, On ninetieth birthday, By all your children Your praises are sung. 5 The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo By Alice Driggs Brown and Jane Cutler Weaver CAST OF CHARACTERS Reader Lucy Mack Smith............. Mother of the Prophet CHARTER Members OF RELIEF SOCIETY Emma Smith Leonora Taylor Sarah M. Cleveland Bathsheba W. Smith Phoebe Ann Hawkes Phoebe N. Wheeler y Elizabeth Jones Elvira A. Coles Sophia Packard Margaret A. Cook Philinda Merrick Sarah M. Kimball Martha Knight Eliza R. Snow Desdemona Fulmer Sophia Robinson Elizabeth (Ann Whitney Sophia R. Marks Costumes: Dresses, bonnets, scarfs, paisley shawls, etc., worn at that period.: Setting: Parlor in Heber C. Kimball's home in Nauvoo, with small center table at front and left of stage, rocking chair and small chair at left of table, desk or chest of drawers at rear stage, settee and two or three chairs at right and rear of stage, rag rugs or strips of rag carpet on floor. Portrait pictures in round frames or framed mottoes such as "God Bless Our Home" on the wall, tidies of lace or patchwork on table, chairs and settee, globe of wax flowers, and oil lamp, Bible and album on table, all lend an old-fashioned atmosphere.. Doors, back and right of stage. An orchestra consisting of piano, violin and. Cello, plays an overture during rising and lowering of curtain for both scenes; the same theme throughout as effective. (Where an orchestra is not available, the organ or piano may be substituted.). The reader stands at the right of stage, with curtain lowered, while the orchestra plays an overture. Reader: Let us take you back ninety years to the beautiful city of Nauvoo, the famous gathering place of the Saints in Illinois. The Church has been in existence only twelve years. It has suffered much from the ravages of persecution and apostasy. It has been driven from Palmyra to Kirtland, from Kirtland to Jackson County, Missouri, and from Missouri to Illinois. The Prophet Joseph and many of the brethren have been imprisoned, their homes and property taken from them. The sufferings of the Saints have been so intense that only the faithful have reached Nauvoo. Their trials at this time are greatly aggravated by the physical weakness resulting from recent privations and sufferings in Missouri. Scarcely a family in Nauvoo or vicinity has ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 145 escaped the scourge of cholera and winter fever. And with it all, they are again building a Temple. It is due to these distressing conditions that a desire has been awakened among the sisters for an organization of the women members of the Church whereby relief might be "given to the suffering Saints in a systematic way. Thus we begin our first scene showing the parlor of the Kimball home in Nauvoo, where the women are meeting to discuss and formulate plans to present to the Prophet Joseph for his consideration and approval. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball is greeting the women as they come in. Scene I: Grandma Lucy Mack Smith kitting in rocker by small table near front and left of stage, vacant chair to her left; Sarah M. Kimball standing by table, facing audience, Elvira Coles and Elizabeth Whitney ion sofa at right of table near back of stage, Sarah M. Cleveland in chair by sofa, Phoebe Wheeler coming from another room at rear, enters room, adjusting her hair, just having removed her hat. Phoebe takes vacant seat at left of Lucy Mack Smith and begins to examine her knitting. Orchestra plays a few measures of appropriate music as curtain slowly rises, giving audience time to contemplate scene before the characters speak. Sarah M. Kimball speaks as Phoebe Wheeler enters the room. Sarah M. Kimball:. You know, sisters, I have just been thrilled ever since we discussed this matter the other day. If we could only be organized! Wouldn't Sister Emma Smith make a splendid leader? Elizabeth Whitney: Yes, indeed she would. Dear me, it makes my heart ache to see such poverty and suffering among us and not be able to help as we could if we had an organization. Think of the number that have died from cholera and winter fever. It seems to me that we should have committees to take care of the different kinds of work. Each committee should be responsible for one part of the work. 'We could accomplish much more and the work would be done more efficiently. Don't you think so? ' Elvira Coles: Yes, indeed! Sarah Kimball: J think that a splendid suggestion. (As Sister Whitney says "work would be done' there is knock on door to right of stage. Sarah Kimball goes to door and opens it.) Sarah Kimball: Come right in, Sister Smith, and Sister Snow. We are all here waiting for you. Sisters Smuth and Snow: Good afternoon, everybody. All say: Good Afternoon. Sarah Kimball:, Come in the other room and remove your hats. Emma Snuth (While they are removing hats): I'm sorry we have kept you waiting, but I was detained the last minute by an urgent case of sickness. Phoebe Wheeler: By the way, ladies, I called to see Sister Peterson this morning. Her two children are seriously ill in bed and all they had to cover them was a poor, ragged quilt. There was no carpet on the floor and not a cup of flour in the house. This is just one family. There are so many others. Sister Emma has been visiting another family in similar circumstances. 146 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Emma Smith: Yes, that is a pitiful case, too, but their faith is strong and they try not to complain. You know, sisters, if we were united and 'had the authority to go ahead and do things, we might approach some of our brothers who are well-to-do and secure donations. Then we would have a fund upon which to draw. Some would give us clothes and others flour and groceries. Eliza Snow: Yes, and we could get together and have rag bees and make rag rugs and carpets. 'We could sew quilts too, couldn't we? There are so many families that need bedding. Grandma Lucy, what do you think about it? Lucy Mack Smith: I think it is a splendid idea, dear, and I would be there with my needle and thread to help. My eyes are getting dim, but I think I could see to sew carpet rags. Phoebe Wheeler (Pats Grandma Lucy on shoulder and says): Bless your heart, we knew you would help. Elvira Coles: That is just fine, dear lady. Sisters, another thing came to my mind. Have you thought how we could help in building the temple? We all know how hard the men are working and I can imagine how they would appreciate some surprise dinners. We might assist with the work, too, by carrying water for the masons. My arms are strong and I could do that. (Bends arm to show muscle.) Sarah Cleveland: Honestly, sisters, it amazes me to think of the service we might render. With so many of the apostles and others on missions and immigrants arriving so often we are really needed to help out. If the (Prophet Joseph would organize us we could get down to work immediately. I read the other day of a body of women in the states known as the Anti-slavery Organization. This body of women have been holding public meetings, making speeches and discussing the broad principles of human rights. Our cause is as worthy and of as much importance as theirs but we need to be organized to get results, Emma Smith: Well, sisters, let us formulate some plan. If we were officially organized, what would be our name? Sarah Cleveland:. I was thinking about that this morning. Since our aim is to give relief we might name ourselves a relief society and as the male members are not included we might call ourselves the "Ladies' Relief Society." Different ones respond in unison: That is a good name. A splendid name. A very appropriate name. Lucy Mack Smith: A very sensible name, I'm sure. Sarah Kimball:. I'll find a pencil and paper and let us have someone write this down. (Sarah goes to desk or table drawer in rear of room.) Sarah Cleveland: Let us have Sister Eliza Snow for our secretary. Sister Eliza, I'll bring you a chair and will you please come to the table and write the by-laws. (After bringing chair to table and getting Eliza R. Snow seated, all in room come slowly to table.) These by-laws we will present to the Prophet for his approval, and I feel sure he will realize what a benefit we could be to the community. ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 147 Now, let's see—what shall we write first? (By this time they have all gathered to table, facing audience. They are looking down at Eliza R. Snow and tablet, thus forming a tableau.) Music by orchestra as curtain falls. Reader: So these sisters took their by-laws written by Eliza R. Snow to the Prophet Joseph, who received them kindly and said he would be pleased to organize the women of the Church., In fact, he said he had been considering this vital question for some time. His plans, however, were greater and more comprehensive than they had contemplated. So on March 17, 1842, he called these women together, eighteen in all, to meet at the Masonic Temple, to perfect the organization. Accompanying Joseph Smith on this important occasion were Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards of the Council of the Twelve. — They began their meeting by singing the hymn, '""The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." Elder John Taylor offered the invocation. Their deliberations resulted in a unanimous expression of good will and a desire that all the sisters present be admitted to membership in this society for human service. In addressing the meeting, the Prophet outlined the purposes of the organization, after which officers were selected and voted upon as follows: Emma Smith, president; Sarah M. Cleveland, first counselor; Elizabeth Ann 'Whitney, second counselor; Eliza R. Snow, secretary; Phoebe M. Wheeler, assistant secretary; and Elvira Coles, treasurer. The officers were then set apart, and Emma Smith, the new president, took charge of the meeting. & The next order of business was the selection of a name for the new society. Elder John Taylor suggested that it be called 'The Nauvoo Female Benevolent Society," which name was approved by the Prophet Joseph. Counselor Cleveland proposed the name of "The Nauvoo Female Relief Society,' and was supported by Counselor Whitney and President Emma Smith. This name carried the vote, and the Society was known 'as "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." The Prophet recommended that all members hereafter be admitted to the Society by vote. He then told them to conduct meetings according to parliamentary procedure, instructing the women to work in cooperative manner, to respect and hold sacred the confidences of one another; that they should be pure in heart and always armed with mercy. "If you would have mercy from God, have mercy for one another." He gave instructions on how to care for the poor, the sick and the unfortunate. "This society should be not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." The Prophet made the first contribution to the charity fund, by donating five dollars in gold with the remark, "Hereafter, what I do for charity, I shall do through this Society. A charitable organization is according to your natures. It is very natural for women to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a position where you can act according to these sympathies that God has planted in your hearts. If 'you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. I now turn the key for you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice. Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down upon you from this time.". So impressed were the women with what had taken place on this 148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE occasion, they just had to meet to talk things over. Thus we see them gathering again at the Kimball home after meeting with the Prophet Joseph and the two apostles. Scene Il: Stage setting same as for Scene I. Sarah M. Kimball leads, going into her home after the meeting. The six officers follow her. Orchestra plays while curtain slowly rises. Sarah Kimball: Come in, sisters, and rest for a few minutes. Take off your hats. Emma Smith: No, Sister Sarah, we won't remove our hats because we can only stay a few minutes. (Sarah Kimball goes into the other room and removes hat. Eliza R. Snow puts notebook and papers on table and sits down at table facing middle of room. Other sisters in group talking. As Eliza speaks, Emma Smith leaves group and comes to table facing audience. Others sit on sofa and chairs. Emma Smith stands, Sarah Kimball returns to room while Elza Snow is of Sarah Kimball goes over to sofa and tells sisters to sit down.) Eliza R. Snow: Sister Emma, I should like to go over the minutes of the meeting while everything is fresh in our minds. T do want the record of this meeting to be accurate for everything the Prophet said was so important. I should like to read it over to you and— (While giving this last sentence, there is a knock, the door is pushed open, and Sophia Packard looks in. With her are the remaining women of the group.) Sophia Packard: We saw you come in Sister Kimball's and we couldn't resist following. We all came to tell you how delighted we are with our officers and we are going to support you in every way possible. (While talking, she goes over to Emma Smith and takes her hand. The others come into room and mingle in groups.) Elvira Coles: I can see we are going to be a happy united band of workers., You know when the Prophet sent word that we were to meet with him today, such a wonderful feeling came over me. I felt as though something of great moment was about to happen to us. Hasn't this meeting today just exceeded our expectations? And to think the Prophet has had this in mind for some time! Elizabeth Whitney: 1 think we are all thrilled with the wonderful spirit of the occasion. The Prophet gave us the authority to go ahead and do according to our charitable and kindly impulses, but did you notice that all our meetings are to be conducted in a business like manner, according to parliamentary rules? Emma Smith: Yes, sisters, we officers will have to study parliamentary procedure now and with all the work we have planned, it means untiring effort and diligence, for this is going to prove a big undertaking. And sisters, we officers do feel our responsibility, but you have spoken and shown in so many ways your willingness to help that we feel with the help of the spirit of the Lord that we are going to be blessed with strength to accomplish everything we set out to do. Eliza R. Snow (has been sitting, but now stands): For my part, sisters, I feel that we are blessed in having, as our president, the wife ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 149 of our beloved Prophet. I also feel it is a great honor to be chosen secretary of this organization, and I pledge you my word that I will try faithfully to do my duty in this capacity. Sisters, we have a complete organization now. The Prophet told us that he had turned the keys for us, in the name of God, and we would rejoice in our work. He made some wonderful promises to us also. Tears came into my eyes many times while he was talking. Think of it, sisters, he said that if we lived up to our privileges the angels of heaven could not be restrained from being our associates. Martha Knight: What touched me too, was the Prophet's sympathy and fairness. I guess he realized that sometimes we criticize each other unthinkingly, so he told us we should be merciful and work with a cooperative spirit. Another thing, don't you remember, he said we should hold sacred the confidences of each other. I made up my mind right then that I would not say anything to offend or hurt anyone's feelings if I could help it., Elizabeth Ann Whitney: Yes, and he said that knowledge and intelligence would flow down upon us from this time and that we should have love for religion, culture, education and refinement. Sophia Robinson: Wasn't that splendid! Just think, this is the first real organized Relief Society in our country. The Prophet said that all our relief work should be done through this Society, and when he presented the $5 in gold, he said that hereafter all his donations would be made through us. Philinda Merrick: Yes, and sisters, we must remember our official name. Let's see, Sister Sarah Cleveland proposed the name, ''Nauvoo Female Relief Society" and I'm so glad we voted for that in preference to "Nauvoo Female Benevolent Society." I believe I'd get my tongue twisted if I had to repeat that name very often. I like the name "Relief Society" because that's what we are, isn't it, a society to give relief. Emma Smith: Well, sisters, I believe we have all come away from this meeting with a wonderful spirit of cooperation and now while we are all here let's decide when and where we shall hold our first meeting. Sarah Kimball (extending both arms graciously): You are all welcome to meet here at my home. Curtain slowly descends as orchestra plays an overture. Reader: Thus ends the story of the first heroic efforts of the eighteen charter members to establish a Relief Society composed entirely of women, the anniversary of which we have met this day to celebrate. From such a small beginning, the Relief Society has grown until it is national and international in scope and influence. We feel that it is a privilege of great magnitude to belong to an organization of 64,000 members, all of the same faith. Music by orchestra. HYRUM GIBBS SMITH Hyrum Gibbs Smith By George Albert Smith, Jr. HE Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the Lord." These words of philosophical truth and comfort have found utterance in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints more often than usual during the past few months, occasioned by the calling home of Church leaders. The Presiding Patriarch of the Church, Hyrum Gibbs Smith, was indeed given to the Church, and as a very young man, by the lineage of his descent and by the appropriateness of his own life, which was ever motivated by the prophetic traits of a great soul. And now he has been taken away, not full of years, though able to look back upon an earth life full of active service and abounding in deeds of goodness and blessing to all mankind. He was born July 8, 1879, at South Jordan in Salt Lake County, the son of Hyrum Fisher Smith and Annie Maria Gibbs, the great grandson of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, one of the two martyrs. He was one of nine children whose ancestry bequeathed to them the blessings of faith, of testimony and of prophetic vision, which qualities in his especial case enabled him to serve his Church and people in the capacity of a prophetic seer and revelator. The formative period of his life was spent in the wholesome influences of a delightful home and in the out-of-doors. The year after his birth his family moved to Idaho, into the Snake River valley where they resided for a time. They next settled in Portage, Box Elder County, where the father engaged in farming and horse raising. When young Hyrum was just seven, the residence "was again changed, the family this time making a home in Hoytsville, Summit County. Here he grew to manhood, assisting with the duties of the farm and home, at the same time attending the public schools, filling positions of responsibility in the Church and varying his activities by hunting, riding and learning the charm and mysteries of the out-of-doors. He subsequently entered the Brigham Young University at Provo, which school he attended until graduation. His scholarship was very high there and he also made a good record as an athlete, being a member of the school track and baseball teams. 'On August 17, 1904, he married Martha Gee of Provo, who has been a remarkable companion for him and an inspirational influence in his life and in forming the lives of their splendid children, of which their home has been blessed with eight, three sons and five daughters. After a period of school teaching. He matriculated into the College of Dentistry of the University of Southern California, which he attended until 1911. He was graduated in June of that year with high honors, was awarded a gold medal for excellence in operative technique and served his class as valedictorian. The practice of his chosen profession was highly successful but was terminated by his selection as successor of his grandfather, John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. This was in 1912 when he was thirty-three years of age. 152 This high calling found him well schooled and experienced in Church work, for he had actively performed the duties of a Latter-day Saint all his life and had held many positions of trust and leadership. He served as Superintendent of Religion Classes and of Sunday Schools in Summit County. Before going to Los Angeles to attend the University there, both he and his wife were set apart 'as missionaries and performed valuable service in that field. Outstanding was his work as Superintendent of the Los Angeles Sunday Schools and later as President of the Los Angeles Branch. For the past nineteen years he has diligently and faithfully discharged the duties of his office. He has pronounced thousands of blessings upon the heads of his fellow Church members, thus pointing to them the way of peace and salvation. In addition to these blessed personal ministrations he has functioned with the other General Authorities of the Church. In visiting the Stakes of Zion, always counseling wisely and encouraging the Saints to enable the fulfilment of their blessings and promises by keeping the commandments of God. Asa member of the Young Men's General Board he performed distinguished service in that organization. This active life of righteousness could do no other than endear him to those whom he contacted both in and out of the Church. A splendid compliment was paid him in 1928 by his Alma Mater, the University of Southern California when he attended the home-coming exercises and was asked as the sole representative of his class to sit with the faculty in recognition of his excellent under-graduate scholarship, his ecclesiastical attainments and_ his ascendency to the position he so RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE deservedly held as Presiding Patriarch of his Church. Hyrum G. Smith's appointment was to be the father of the Church, and so to be, his disposition and native endowments most fittingly qualified him. He was a lover of his fellowmen. He loved peace, simplicity, orderliness. His was a finely sensitive nature, responsive to the needs of those about him and ever alertly reaching out into the infinite and bringing back those treasures of prophetic comfort and assurance to the gladdening of the lives of those who were the grateful recipients of his ministry. He was not the aggressive, argumentative type although he was firm in support of his convictions. His sympathy for the misled transgressor was abundant, but for sin itself he had no tolerance. This faculty developed in him a directness of thought and speech. He talked to people but rarely about them. The confidence of another he never betrayed. This fidelity to friendship and personal trust was only equalled by his loyalty to his Church and devotion to the principles which it promulgates.
It is not surprising that such a man qualified to be Patriarch of his people should also be eminently successful in fathering his own immediate family. He laid the foundation stone of a happy home admirably well when he chose for his wife a young woman of personal charm, unusual intelligence and possessing that vital faith in God which has induced her to an unselfish support of her husband in his high calling and which has been caught up into the lives of the children she bore him. These two, so happily wedded, have, under the judicious and affectionate guidance of the father reared their family in a remarkable way. Orderly dispatch of their domestic affairs is ever their watchword. Family prayers are faithfully observed and obedience to parental advice is a highly developed trait in this family. The parents have never ceased to be lovers and that warm, wholesome affection has kindled the whole family, than which a happier, more loyal or more faithful could nowhere be found.
Holidays have been home days for this family. Hyrum G. Smith had the foresight to desire the immediate companionship of his loved ones and provided that it should not be secondary to other associations. He enjoyed working about to beautify his home and garden that they might form sanctuaries where the blessed influences of the better life might be fostered and imbibed. As a lover of these valleys and peaks which gave him his birthplace and home he rejoiced in their beauties, and as opportunity afforded he visited the streams and remoter glens to enjoy fishing or hunting, in both of which he was signally proficient, and to absorb enjoyment and inspiration from God's handiwork.
His calling required of him a particularly fine degree of faith and vision. His endowments of character and personality enabled him to meet these unusually high standards to the complete satisfaction of his associates and to the blessing of the Church for which he lived and to which he gave his full measure of devotion. In his life were no indications that he harbored the thought that being born of such illustrious ancestry gave him any privileges for absolution. On the other hand he regarded his heritage as a special responsibility, by virtue of which he should strive the more diligently toward that perfection of life exemplified by the Master in whose service he was.
Hyrum G. Smith did not leave to his family or people any great legacy of material accumulation, a possession of which too oft is a hindrance to spiritual growth. That which he did leave is of infinitely greater worth—a testimony that God lives and has revealed His purposes,—a beautiful life which vitalized that testimony—a family full of faith, which is a tribute to his patriarchal nature—and the blessed memory in the hearts of his fellows that he was one whose greatest desire it was to assist his Lord and Master in bringing to pass the eternal life and immortality of man.
Vitalizing Resolutions
By President Louise Y. Robison
An Address Delivered at the Regional Conference of the National Women's Christian Temperance Union, January 26, 1932
THE invitation to meet with you today has given me great pleasure. The Women's Christian Temperance Union has ever upheld the standards of good citizenship and in the words of that great leader, Frances Willard, it has fought long and valiantly "for God and home and native land." In the face of ridicule and opposition it has never lowered its standards but has calmly and prayerfully carried on. I am honored in the privilege I have of meeting with you in this Conference.
Thinking back to the early seventies one must remember that those early workers for temperance—so few in number, without money or experience but with strong faith—must have been led and sustained by Divine Power. Their untiring efforts prove their belief in a saying of Emanuel Kant: "Anything that ought to be done, can be done."
The gaining of the ballot by women and the outlawing of the sale of liquor, unquestionably constitute two of the most significant reforms in history, and the adoption of the 18th and 19th Amendments to the Constitution, two of the finest pieces of social legislation ever enacted. We owe an incalculable debt of gratitude to those heroic women who patiently endured pain and persecution for the sake of the liberty which the women of today enjoy.
But we must remember that the spirit of any event must be kept alive by adherents of that event in order that it may not die. Only by being true to the ideals and standards of those who made possible the 18th and 19th Amendments to the Constitution can we give the next generation the precious heritage which we have received. We are reminded of what the Roman Officer said to the Apostle Paul, "With a great price obtained I this freedom."
It seems to be human nature for us to sacrifice and make effort to obtain a goal—then to "rest on our oars." There certainly has developed a civic carelessness—a national indifference, making necessary more valiant effort and greater cooperation. Resolutions may be helpful and the appeal, which led to making them, may have educational value, but at best it is passive. This passivity must be vitalized and made a living force in the lives of the people.
We read in 2nd Corinthians, 3rd Chapter, of the epistle of Christ, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone but in tables of the heart, for the letter killeth but the Spirit giveth life. To many people, these precious Amendments are but written in ink. It is clearly then the mission of every loyal American to make these words of ink, a vital force, written in the tables of the heart.
In the home—first by example and in song and story, let there be no jokes nor cartoons on prohibition or officers of the law. An enlightened public opinion can be created if women will unite in the effort. We should know the purpose of every election and the officials to be elected. It is of utmost importance that we should know the character and records of individuals seeking office. We ask this of everyone applying for the humblest type of work in industry, then why should we pass it over in those individuals whose actions influence the lives of our youth? If we have placed good servants in office we should support and help them in the discharge of their duties, and we should honor and obey the law in small things as in great.
We are not pessimists but people of faith, faith in ourselves and in our country—faith in the living God who strengthens the cause of right and we are going to set our hands to the task that lies before us. In closing let me quote the words of President Lincoln in his Cooper-Union Square address: "Let us have faith that right makes might and in that faith let us dare to do our duty as we understand it."
A Visit to the Members of the First Relief Society
By Vesta Pierce Crawford
"I hear the tread of pioneers Of nations yet to be, The first low wash of waves where Soon shall roll a human sea." —J. G. Whittier.
LET us imagine that time has turned back nearly a century, and we are going to visit the members of the very first Relief Society! Our journey should prove both pleasant and profitable, for we are going to meet those pioneer women who planted the seed that has grown into our present large and effective organization.
Let us leave behind all the impediments of 1932, since we must use our historic perceptions and change our point of view just ninety years. We are ready, now, to set out for Nauvoo, the Mormon City, on the Mississippi River. Travel will be by stage or carriage, or we may take one of those "swift and elegant" boats that ply with some regularity up and down the great river. If we are fortunate, we shall charter passage on the Prophet Joseph Smith's own steamer, "Maid of Iowa," and sail up the river past St. Louis and Keokuk, to Nauvoo. There are two landings, upper and lower, but we shall strike anchor at the lower landing and proceed directly to Main Street.
It is 1842, and Nauvoo the Beautiful is only three years old. There is the very sheen of newness about it—new lumber houses, new roads, new sidewalks, new-plowed fields, and even new lilac buds bursting in the early sunshine. There are sounds of industry in the place—the clang of farm implements, galloping of horses, lumbering of laden wagons, and the pounding of hammers on new roofs. Eastward, on the prairie, rise the shining temple walls.
As we look at the beautiful city, let us recall how the Prophet called together eighteen of the leading women, they were called "female spirits" then, and organized them into the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. Let us say that we know how it was done, with John Taylor and Willard Richards assisting, and how on the pulpit that very day was found an open Bible, having this appropriate verse inserted on a scrap of paper:
"O, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children, Amen. So mote it be. With the sword and the word of truth defend thou them, so mote it be."
And with charity in their hearts and eagerness in their faces, the chosen ones came at the Prophet's call, and began the task of organization. Who were they, these women leaders of nearly a century ago, these women who had the courage and the faith to do what women had never successfully done before—to organize themselves into an active association for benevolent purposes?
Here are the names, as they wrote them down that day, March 17, 1842:
Emma Smith Sarah M. Cleveland Phebe Ann Hawkes Elizabeth Jones Sophia Packard Philinda Merrick Martha Knight Desdemona Fulmer Elizabeth Ann Whitney Leonora Taylor Bathsheba W. Smith Phoebe M. Wheeler Elvira A. Coles Margaret A. Cook Sarah M. Kimball Eliza R. Snow Sophia Robinson Sophia R. Marks
Let us call upon some of these women and learn all we can about them. What part do they play in the work of the Church? Where did they come from? What is their heritage? What are their hopes and ideals? And, of course, because we are women, and therefore curious, we shall want to know other things. How old are they? Are they married? Are they good housekeepers? Are they mothers? They will all be very busy and we must not stay long.
Perhaps we shall pass some of them on the street. They will be wearing long wool coats buttoned down the front in redingote style, or little capes or pelerines, if the day is fine. In their homes they will wear full gathered cotton dresses in dainty "sprigged" patterns or plain material, and the collars will be white, crossed like a fichu in front. And what will they talk about? Some of them will tell you that they have followed the migrations of the Church from New York, through Ohio to Missouri, and back again to Illinois. Others will ask you to look at the temple walls and the lengthening streets of Nauvoo and read the story written there. They will nearly all of them mention their children and say how glad they are that there is a school in Nauvoo.
Much alike in their ideals and their enthusiasm for home and Church, these women are very different in personality, and we shall be that much more interested in meeting them.
First we shall call at the home of Emma Smith. She is President of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, and we have already heard that her leadership is both sympathetic and dynamic. She lives in a comfortable frame house very near the river, and she will come to the door herself. We see a tall woman of queenly carriage, very stately and dignified. Her hair is dark, parted in the middle, and coiled in a "bun" at the back of her neck. Likely she will be dressed in lavender, for that is her favorite color, and her white apron will be spotless. She is very quiet, and you will realize at once that you must ask questions if you succeed in conversing with this woman who has about her the reticence of the Hales of Pennsylvania. She is neither visionary nor voluble, but a person of calm decision and untiring devotion to her people.
When she took the chair immediately after her election as President of the Relief Society, her maiden speech lacked flowery flourishes, but the eagerness of service was there: "We are going to do something extraordinary. When a boat is stuck on the rapids with a multitude of Mormons on board we shall consider that a loud call for relief; we expect extraordinary occasions and pressing calls."
In Emma's calm demeanor, in her quiet voice, in the strength of her splendid physique, we recognize the characteristics of undemonstrative ability. We have already heard how the Prophet's home has always been a haven for the destitute, and that there is scarcely a household in Nauvoo that has not known the personal ministration of "Joseph and Emma" as their "brethren and sisters" affectionately called them. But Emma will not mention this. The Relief Society, just now, is her principal interest, and she will tell us that the sisters hope in time to be able to help all the needy, so that Nauvoo will be a city of unmarred joy and beauty. The alleviation of suffering and sorrow is the aim of the new Society, and the splendid system of cooperation insures a wider service.
Emma Smith, although she has, for ten years, been a natural leader among the women, feels that she is not capable of directing the Society so that it can reach the height of its possibilities. There is so much that could be done. But we find that Emma's associates do not doubt her ability, and their allegiance to her is a pillar of strength in the association. As we say "Goodbye", Emma's wide dark eyes smile at us, and we walk along between the lilac bushes, noticing, as we go, that low-bedded pansies are in bloom.
Sarah M. Cleveland, the first counselor, is a neighbor to Emma Smith, for when the Prophet first arrived in Nauvoo, he immediately wrote to his good friends, the Clevelands of Quincy, Illinois, and said that he had selected a lot for them just across the road from his own property. The Clevelands lived in Quincy when the main body of the Saints fled across the river from Missouri in the spring of 1839. It was they who gave Emma Smith and her children shelter and cared for them until Joseph was released from prison.
Mrs. Cleveland is a vigorous, capable woman, brisk in movement, brisk in conversation. She is the type that goes eagerly forward to meet work. One wonders if she knows how to rest. But then Nauvoo is no place for laggards. Her definition of charity is "less dreaming, more doing", and she finds scope for her practical kindness in Nauvoo as she did in Quincy. She is admirably adjusted to frontier life, and we wish that we could take with us some of her ambition and strength. What a day of growth! Enthusiasm is contagious.
And here we are at another door, waiting to see Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who is the second counselor. We see that she is older than Mrs. Cleveland and Emma and also that she is more talkative. There is about her a warmth of friendliness. She has lived a life "brim full" of romance and achievement, and she has reached the retrospective age. As a young girl she came from New England out to Ohio, which was then "the far frontier", to live with a maiden aunt. There she met Newel K. Whitney, a man of wealth and character. He had been for years a trader on the Great Lakes, and once, when he was younger, his life had been saved, like John Smith's, by an Indian girl. Her name was Moudalina, and the Whitneys have a daughter named for her.
Newel Whitney was able to accumulate money in such large amounts that his friends said that he was depression and panic proof, and that it was impossible for Whitney boats to be lost on the lakes or for Whitney goods to be low in the markets. Newel and Elizabeth Ann were living in Kirtland when the Prophet came to that place. He arrived in winter, and stepping from the sleigh, grasped Newel Whitney's hand and said, "Newel K. Whitney, thou art the man!" Newel was surprised at first, and then he remembered having seen the Prophet in a dream, and he made him welcome at once. Elizabeth Ann is justly proud of the fact that it was she who entertained the Prophet and his family in those early Kirtland days.
We have heard that Mrs. Whitney is an excellent singer. Well, yes, she explains, she loves to sing. Heber Kimball and John Taylor both have pianos, and "musical meetings" are frequently held in their homes. The Saints gather around Elizabeth Ann and the piano and sing, "The earth was once a garden place at Adam-ondi-Ahman", and "An angel came down from the mansions of glory and told how a record was hid in Cumorah." There are many other good singers among the women—Zina Huntington, Emma Smith, the Partridge girls—and the music they have in Relief Society meeting is very good.
And Zion has her poets, too, we learn. Eliza R. Snow is the "poet laureate" of her Church, and no official versifier ever felt more closely the pulse of the people. She is a vivid, dark-eyed woman, with a sensitive face of great spiritual beauty. Her features are well formed and delicate, and there is a compelling loveliness in her expressive eyes. She is Lorenzo Snow's sister, well educated, refined, and talented. We find that love for Nauvoo and for the Church is the dominating force in her life. Others, perhaps, are as loyal, but no one else has such a gift of beautiful, lucid literary expression. She celebrates Nauvoo and its history in ringing rhythmical verse, and her "fair city on the river" loves her as well as she loves it. "Our Eliza," say the women of the Relief Society, and "Our Eliza" is echoed in Nauvoo.
Leonora Taylor, wife of John Taylor, is one of the most beautiful and lovely women in the city. She is the daughter of Captain Cannon of the Isle of Man, and for several years she lived in Castle Rushen, with the Governor's family. It was in Toronto that she met and married John Taylor. They were both ardently religious, and after they joined the Church and moved to Kirtland, John Taylor became one of the Prophet's most staunch defenders, and the refined, well educated Leonora found her niche in the rapidly expanding work of the vigorous new Church.
We learn that the Relief Society is growing so rapidly that no building in Nauvoo will hold all of the members. More than two hundred joined in a day, and four times there were more than one hundred who became affiliated at a single meeting. It has been necessary to teach many of the women not only the principles of the gospel, but also how to keep house and raise gardens, and preserve fruits and vegetables, and take care of the children. Leonora Taylor, with others of the first eighteen, does not hesitate to do the kind of work that the occasion demands.
Now we shall visit Sophia Packard. Her maiden name was Bundy, and as a girl she lived in Massachusetts. She will say that she was an early convert to the Church, baptized in 1832. Mr. Packard has always been active, particularly in the High Priests' Quorum, where he has served as counselor to Don Carlos Smith. He has walked 15,000 miles to spread the gospel, and has preached nearly five hundred discourses. That is loyalty. We realize that the Packards are of the hardy faithful stock who build empires. Mrs. Packard speaks mostly of the accomplishments of her husband, but finally she does acknowledge that she too has not been idle. People say that she is one of the best nurses and housekeepers in Nauvoo, and very few women can stitch so well. And yes, she has a family and is proud of all the children.
Philinda Merrick is a widow. Her husband was killed in Missouri and Brigham Young helped her to move into Illinois. She wants to tell us about a very interesting incident that occurred at the first meeting of the Relief Society, the day it was organized. Emma Smith had just been elected President, and in her initial address she urged the women to give all the work they could to Mrs. Merrick and to be prompt in payment. Wasn't that thoughtful—to begin so soon to help the widows?
It is a broad message of charity and uplift that we have found in Nauvoo among these outstanding women. We wish that we could visit all of "the first eighteen," but we hear the boat horn signalling from the landing. We must be going, but let us take away with us, in our hearts, a portion of that spirited devotion we have found among the charter members of the Relief Society.
MASONIC HALL, WHERE THE RELIEF SOCIETY WAS ORGANIZED IN 1842 BY THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH
Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
THE RELIEF SOCIETY this month is ninety years old. This great sisterhood engaged in benign charity, in retrospection now beholds wonders of progress and achievement. So the good work of loving kindness goes on from year to year—God bless the Relief Society.
"CHEER up" was the message Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt sent to the world on her 73rd birthday. "As soon as everybody works the depression will end. We'll come out of this one—as we always have before," is her optimistic prophecy.
STATISTICS tell us that the decrease in marriages and divorces was due to the depression. In June of last year Reno issued a divorce every eight minutes. One wonders what would happen if there were no depression.
KATHERINE HARING, of New Haven, was recently awarded the Loomis fellowship of $1500 in chemistry at Yale University. She is the first of her sex to be so honored. The award is one for which the most brilliant men in the chemistry departments compete.
MISS VIRGINIA KIRKUS of Harper Brothers, publishers, has set a high standard in the selection and presentation of books for children and adolescents. Her judgment in this matter would be most helpful to parents in the selection of books for children.
THE Real "Alice in Wonderland" is to visit America in May. Mrs. R. G. Hargreaves, a little old lady now, who has two sons buried in Flanders Field, is the original heroine of that wonderful story, so dear to every little child. The author, Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, whose pen name was Lewis Carroll, promised to write out the story for Alice Liddell which he so delightfully wove for her one summer day in 1862. He kept the promise and gave her the manuscript, borrowing it once to have a facsimile made. This original manuscript was sold at auction in 1928 and brought $72,250. It will be shown at the centenary celebration at Columbia University in May with 15 known copies of the first edition. January 27, this year, was Carroll's centenary and it was celebrated in London, with Mrs. Hargreaves present. The celebration in New York was deferred until May, that Mrs. Hargreaves might be spared an ocean crossing in winter.
"JADWIGA," by Charlotte Kellogg, is one of the new books much praised by the critics. It has an interesting preface by Ignaz Paderewski, the Polish statesman and artist.
"THE WOMEN'S HOUSE OF DETENTION" is the name for the new prison New York is building for women. This is a step in prison reform long desired where women prisoners may be segregated and those only held as witnesses or on suspicious charges will not have to mingle with the criminal class.
REPRESENTATIVE EDITH NOURSE ROGERS of Massachusetts has recommended to President Hoover combined homes and hospitals for women veterans of the World War. Another step forward in behalf of women.
It Slays to Advertise
By Harrison R. Merrill
WE are all game for the advertiser and there is no buck law or closed season. He guns for both sexes the year around, and in all sorts of places. We are bombarded from roadside bill-boards, from the pages of magazines and newspapers, from the pulpit, the screen, and even from our own firesides. When a magazine is opened with its gorgeous coloring and enticing slogans and catch words, or when the radio is turned on I feel what pennies I possess scurrying for cover. They remind me of chickens when the screech of a hawk is heard over head. Unlike the chickens, rarely do the pennies escape.
Slogans and statements with all the assurance of truth and innocence gaze calmly at us from various places, or ride to us on the invisible steeds of the ether until they become a part of our thinking. We get the habit of subscribing to them subconsciously. Because seven million glasses of a certain beverage are sold daily, we call for it at the soda fountain without taking the trouble to think. Occasionally something occurs that sets up a resistance—the child and the hot poker idea—but usually we go merrily along unconscious of our bill-board magazine-page thinking.
I developed some resistance rather early in life when a cousin of mine, a little older than I wanted to bet his flipper against my knife that he could out-run me and run on one leg half of the time. I found that he was right and lost my knife even though I had misinterpreted. A few years later I bought from a friend a fine Waltham watch in a case that was guaranteed for 20 years. In time the gold wore off the case and I took it to a jeweler for replacement.
"This case was guaranteed for twenty years," said I. "It has gone bad and I'd like a new one."
"Very well," said he, "if you'll tell me who made the guarantee, I'll take the matter up with him."
"The guarantee is right there on the case," I answered.
"So it is," he replied, "but unfortunately, whoever put the guarantee on it neglected to put his name or the name of his company with it. Waltham, you know, didn't make the case."
I learned through that deal that it is well to know the company with which one is dealing. About eight years ago we were looking around for an electric washer. At that time a certain company was shipping a certain make of washers West by the car load. The washer, according to its advocates was guaranteed for a life time. We found one of those washers which had been used about a year that could be purchased at a saving of about eighty dollars. "What's a year in a life time?" we argued. "It will be our last washer anyway." We bought.
Not so long afterward, we had trouble with the belt and had to have a new one. The salesman explained that no one could expect an ordinary leather belt to last a life time. Why, of course not. We felt foolish for even mentioning that. We had to pay a good sum for the belt and a little of our faith in our machine went with the purchase money. A little later a rubber pipe used as an outlet gave way. We learned from the agent that in all probability the former owner had used strong soaps or lye. We had to pay for it, and have paid for another one since and we don't use lye. Then the gears went bad. Of course we expected them free, but, no, they revealed no material defect. While they were guaranteed for a life time all right, we had to pay a good sum for them. Still later the gears went bad again. When we went to have them replaced, we learned that steel gears at a much higher price were being used. We were pleased. The material, after all, was defective and we would have the new steel gears free. "Well, um—not exactly free—" the salesman hesitated—"You see the cast gears were as good as cast gears could be expected to be, but they wouldn't hold up in our washer."
Now, my wife tells me, the wringer is going bad. The company has now changed its catchwords in its advertising. "It's wise to be shifty" might be substituted with propriety. "The skin I'd love to clutch" would suit me rather well.
Slogans and catch phrases bark at one from so many unexpected places, many of them demanding analysis as my cousin's proposition did, that one sometimes is constrained to analyze them in order to maintain one's sense of humor. A few of them so treated would read something as follows: "More wiles per smile," "Knockless gasoline," "You can afford so many extras when you shop at Shears and Shave," and "Albuquerque has that all-year climate."
After glancing through a magazine one could make up a questionnaire of his own something like the following: "Do you know what is winter's worst threat? Over-dry indoor air." Are you aware that "you can cut your fuel cost 50%, your summer heat 12°? And that great talkers have no need of ears?" or that "It wasn't what he said, but what he didn't do", or "What has the "Perfect Power?" Do you know why, according to Chic Sale, "she is principal of her school?"
I bought a "genuine cowhide" bag and found the hide had been mulched and sprayed on pasteboard with a paint gun, and an all-wool sweater made of shoddy. Gunning for the pennies has become such a national sport that in self protection many firms as well as individuals have joined a purchasers' protective association which, by means of research, finds out the real value of goods offered for sale—from automobiles to darning cotton.
Yet, while we know our dimes are being sought, like the coyote chased by a dog, we rather enjoy the campaign. Many a national magazine is bought, not for its editorial contents, but for the beautiful and wise things the advertisers have to say. Though we know it slays to advertise we risk our incomes and turn our backs upon the good old proverb, "There is safety in slumbers."
Why did I buy that recent tube of tooth-paste? Because I could not "Laugh that off." Why do I use a certain kind of shaving cream? Chiefly because I became interested in the quarrel between a blue jar and a tube. Why do I wear a certain kind of socks? Because a musical pair have sung about them so repeatedly in my presence that when I need hosiery I can think of the name they drummed into my ears first and further, because I want to appear to know what I want.
Dear reader, I think I am something like you, or, to turn it around, that you are something like me. We are all more or less alike. Sometimes I think that even inanimate things are like us in this matter. My sour dough bread refuses to rise properly when the soda comes from a box that does not bear on it the well-known sign or trade-mark with which my sour dough and I have been reared. Truly it slays to advertise. Sooner or later the catch word or phrase becomes a part of our thinking, if the advertiser is sufficiently persistent. When it does, we are lost.
The Joy of Service
By Sarah M. McLelland
NO greater evidence can be found of true service than that shown by the women of the Relief Society. Thousands are giving time and strength and means to help those in distress. We are building up an organization that is efficient in ministry, both for the living and the dead. The work extends from ocean to ocean. Our reward is not found in public recognition nor in material increase, but in the joy of real service.
The work is not something vague and visionary but is exemplified in daily tasks and sacrifice. Of all money received for charity, one hundred percent of it reaches its goal. In periods of depression our activities are enlarged and our love goes out in greater abundance to suffering humanity. Christ said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me."
Service is constructive. We are builders of homes that are founded on love and sanctified by prayer. Service carries with it an obligation of courtesy and kindness. It requires sacrifice and courage to do what we feel and know is right. Courage is the fundamental part of success; it makes us strong in doing what we have resolved to do. "No life can be strong in its purpose and big in its strife without all other lives being made better."
The story is told of a boy on the battle field, whose comrade had been wounded. The captain said, "It isn't worth while to go after him; he is dead, and you may lose your life." But he went. It was worth while, for his friend was not dead and said, "I knew you'd come."
Many think that happiness consists of having and getting and in being served by others. It consists in giving and in serving others. Henry Drummond asked, "Are we letting the pleasures of modern life crowd out the finer things?" There is in every human heart a hunger and thirst for the things of the spirit. Let us not let the temporal things of life take away the blessings of spirituality.
The Lord has said, "For behold I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing. Wherefore, be not weary in well doing, for you are laying the foundation of a great work and out of small things proceedeth that which is great."
When we look back on the progress that has been made by woman during the last ninety years, we ask, who can vision what the next ninety years will bring?
Two Prayers
By Lula Greene Richards
IT was during the summer of 1882 when I was a young wife and mother that I became more conscious of the validity and significance of prayer, and more deeply impressed with my mother's sense of the magnitude of its beneficial results than I had previously been. I was frail at the time and conditions necessitated my doing much hard work which I had not been accustomed to. My aged, widowed mother was a member of our household.
One morning as I bent over a tub of hot suds and rubbed away on soiled clothes to make them clean, Mother came to me and said anxiously, "My daughter, I am fearful that you will be made sick with all this hard work."
"Oh, no Mother," I replied, smiling at her (perhaps rather faintly). "I have discovered a new way of obtaining help in these testing times, and I can work on and on. You must not worry."
"Can you tell me of this newly found help?" Mother asked.
And I answered, "It is simply to do as the Lord has taught his followers—to 'pray always that they be not overcome.' I say a short prayer, asking for help, and as soon as it is finished I commence at the beginning and say it over again. And you see Mother, in this way, I can keep on all right with my work."
Mother beamed on me a sweet smile of sympathy and approbation. "Well, my child," she commented, "you have just discovered, it seems, a way which you thought was new by which to obtain strength for emergencies. I have followed that same course month after month, week in and week out, for years and years, both before and after you were born."
I had nothing more to say. I lifted my hands out of the suds, shook and dried them, and winding my arms around my mother's shoulders, laid my face against her neck and wept a flood of pent-up tears by which I was greatly relieved and strengthened to resume my work and praying. I had been awakened to a new consciousness of my own mother's life of struggles and sacrifices, borne by strength received through the agency of constant, concentrated faith and prayer, a consciousness never to be forgotten or to become vapid.
Nearly seventeen years later, in the latter part of the winter and the spring of 1899, I was privileged to attend a National Woman's Congress held in Washington, D. C. As I sat in one of the sessions of the Congress, being one of a group of our Latter-day Saint sisters representing the women of Utah, I heard repeated a lesson similar to the one cited above. Very different, however, were the circumstances attending the two occasions. The first, as already portrayed, occurred in my own modest home in Salt Lake City, Utah. My mother and myself were the only persons present in a work-room surrounded by common domestic concerns. The lesson was given by a conscientious, humble, "Mormon" mother to but one of her seven daughters who was with her at the moment.
The memory of that by-gone incident came vividly to my mind on the second occasion that the same great lesson was forcibly transmitted to my soul. Instead of bending over a washtub in my own home, I was at this time comfortably seated in an easy chair in one of the great public buildings not far from our nation's capitol. Instead of my mother being alone with me, solicitous for my welfare, I sat in the midst of thousands of the bright, intelligent women of our country, who had come together for the purpose of discussing and planning ways and means by which they hoped the whole world might be really benefited.
At that session of our Council the ladies on the platform were talking over and arranging the program to be used by our American women who were to represent us at the International Woman's Convention to be held a few months later in London, England. One question brought up to be considered and passed upon was whether the session of the great council to be allotted to our United States representatives should be opened with public prayer or otherwise. A number of differing opinions were expressed on the subject, some in favor of the prayer being offered, others feeling that time thus spent might prove detrimental to the work they hoped to accomplish, rather than beneficial. After awhile, as there appeared to be no final decision on the question, a moment's lull served as an opportunity for an expression from a woman whose words were naturally waited for and listened to with most profound attention by the assemblage.
Very tersely were her views expressed and, to me her words seemed a repetition of the lesson given me years ago by my own mother, on prayer. Susan B. Anthony, one of the greatest and bravest women workers for the good and uplift of humanity the history of our world has yet shown, stood up before that vast concourse of her sister workers and satisfactorily settled their disputed question, at least for that time. As nearly as I am able to recall her exact words, they were as follows:
"This question cannot be decided here. We cannot tell now what conditions may exist when we shall be permitted to present our program in the Congress we are now working for. Lack of time or some other hindrance may be in the way to prevent our doing as we might be glad to do. But whether we are allowed to pray openly or not, nothing can hinder our secret prayers. I pray all the time with my head and heart and hands and feet. That is the way I have worked all my life—the way I have accomplished all I have ever done."
That was the declaration of the woman who had pioneered and pushed forward the mighty work of the emancipation of woman from political bondage until she saw in a measure at least the thing she had so nobly striven for accomplished. And she still worked and prayed, encouraging those who were in line with her to do likewise.
The newly awakened memory of my mother's acknowledgment on the same subject of work and prayer, coupled with thoughts of the ridicule, false accusations and persecutions of different kinds to which this now world renowned philanthropist had been subjected for so many years during her wonderful career, stirred me deeply.
"The Least of These"
By Albert R. Lyman
DOWN from the white summits to the valley came winter with its gloom and chill. It sealed up the glad streams along the sidewalks, it drove the dry leaves about under the trees and moaned sadly through the naked limbs. Unseen along with it like a spectre, came want, entering unbidden to the homes of the poor. As winter closed its fierce grip, and gray clouds left mists of cold snow on the valley, want grew bold in its lowly quarters, smiting its defenseless entertainers with cruel hand.
The cries from its blows echoed forth from one mouth to another till they reached Aunt Emma, whose duty was ever to go at the first sign of distress. No one wondered that Aunt Emma dropped her own affairs without question to go at once—of course she would go—she should go—was she not president of The Relief Society?
That she was a widow with no regular income, a woman of all-work, ready for any honest and honorable employment to which she could turn her hand, was hardly a related fact. To shake her hand was to feel the callous and ruggedness of genuine toil. With her fatherless children she met all things gamely and bravely, assuming this extra burden of love in splendid forgetfulness of what she carried already. Hiding her own worries and sorrows she smiled bravely and cheerfully for others, and the unthinking multitude considered her amply able, and somehow under obligation to bear the heavy yoke of her office.
That office imposed regular responsibilities each year, each month, each week and almost every day. And yet special cases from various quarters claimed additional attention, calling to her at any time of the day or night, and expecting always, of course, to get ready response. If people became sick, or otherwise distressed, they looked to the (Relief Society, and to Aunt Emma in' particular for assistance, and sorrowing hearts turned to her and her aids when their loved ones 'lay stricken in death. And now, as want and winter grew loud in their wail, reports came of a family with several small children, in great need of both food and clothing. Aunt Emma was a large woman, not able, even when in good health, to move with ordinary ease, but she went herself without delay to see the destitute family. She found them as bad, or worse than reported, and her big heart moved with concern for their comfort. Calling on her assistants she took up the case, and started a movement to provide the necessary food and clothing. This case was not at all unusual with Aunt Emma and her unfaltering co-laborers, they had become inured to one pressing requirement treading close on the heels of another, making their lives intense and their burdens heavy. But along with the urgency incident to supplying the needy members of this particular family, the president was not well, and she trudged back and forth with heavy step. Did she complain of not being well? Not then—not till intervening years had made it impossible for "THE LEAST OF THESE" such a complaint to hinder the work in hand. If ever she had moments of doubt or discouragement, she smothered their secret in her own breast, but naturally in her weariness and her heavier ordeals, her mind went back to years of toil and trying places which she had passed with her fatherless children since she became a widow. She looked back to hardships and perils on the frontier, and heartaches she had borne for conscience sake. Trudging wearily homeward through the keen December wind, trying to bury her own worries to formulate more efficient plans of relief, she sank at last on the bed in her own home and fell asleep. And still in 'dreams she dragged on in the service of the needy, holding to the familiar pathway sh. Had followed for years. She stood again in destitute homes, she considered their want and their poverty around her; she caressed their lean ragged children and took their protesting and unkempt babies in her arms. Then unbidden, deep in her chambers of thought, came a feeling that these babies were not equal to other little people to whom she -had ministered. Silently, deeply there in her soul she wondered if her labors and sacrifices for the lowly and unappreciative were quite as profitable, and as much to be desired, as her efforts with more superior people, especially those who appreciated her services and blessed her as an angel of mercy whenever she entered their homes. Then her dream changed—it be167 came more than a dream. The nude little baby on her lap, at whom she had looked disparagingly as a child of inferior parentage, and therefore of little promise, underwent a wonderful transformation. "As I looked at him," she afterwards related, "the impression came to me that he was the Saviour, and I recognized him as the Christ Child. I thought, 'O what a great honor this is! Whoever had such a privilege? To actually hold the Christ Child on my lap! I was filled with unspeakable joy—my whole being was aflame with the glory of the Lord! In the midst of this, the greatest of joys, I awoke, and these words of the Saviour came instantly and impressively, 'thrilling me through and through: 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my children, ye have done it unto me'." Who was Aunt Emma? A fictitious character framed to illustrate an imaginary ideal? Emma Summerville McConkie was known and loved in various Utah towns as an untiring worker in the Relief Society and in the Primary. Humble and unassuming, but aggressive in giving relief to the needy, and in teaching saving truth to little children, she completed her splendid earth-labors in January, 1924, at Moab, Utah. "And what delights can equal those Which stir the spirit's inner deeps When one who loves but knows not, reaps The truth from one who loves and knows." Notes to The April Conference Plans are underway for the Relief Society April conference which will be held as usual on the two days preceding the annual conference of the Church. As this is the official conference of the Relief Society, it is required that every Stake in the Church be represented, and as many Missions as can find it possible. The special features will be the course of study including class demonstrations in each of the three regular departments, and in the Teacher's Topic department; the Work and Business meeting; and the Social Welfare Work. The work in the latter department will feature charity and relief work with the special object of helping the Stake Social Service Aids and ward presidents. It would be an ideal thing if each stake could send a delegate for each department, but since this is not possible for the far away Stakes which necessarily have to limit their delegation, the program will be arranged so that those who do come will have opportunity to cover most of the work. ' There will be fine musical numbers and an entertainment for the official delegates. The Field The Relief Society Not A Selling Agency There is a continuous effort made to use the Relief Society as a selling medium. Always the people who desire to do this emphasize that it is for the good of the organization that they offer the opportunity of selling their wares, not for their own financial profit. While it is not within the province of the General Board to inform the sisters of the Relief Society, as individuals, as to what they should do in the world of business, it should be understood that it is decidedly against the policy of the Relief Society to make it in any sense a selling agency. It is absolutely necessary that this policy be adhered to quite strongly, else we would be overwhelmed with offers from all sorts of commercial enterprises wishing to make the Relief Society a medium of distribution for their supplies. Let it be clearly understood that the Relief Society as an organization is not in the commercial field, and while in some cases it may be advantageous to conduct an enterprise of this kind, on the whole it is to the best interests of the organization to refrain from such undertakings. The organization must be protected against exploitation. Work and Business We are delighted with the remarkably fine outlines prepared by the Work and Business departments of the Grant and Cottonwood stakes. It is evident that careful attention and much time have been given to them. The committees have used the ability and training of experts and have circulated U. S. Bulletins and Utah State Agricultural College circulars that give helpful suggestions. Because we believe these outlines will be suggestive and helpful to others, we are publishing the general outlines sent out to the ward officers by the Grant NOTES TO THE FIELD Stake, Nettie I. Yates, supervisor; and next month will publish the one used by the Cottonwood Stake. Grant Stake Outlines for Work and Business Days—1930-1931 Due to the variety in age, financial conditions, and general interests of the members of our Society, we find that on the work day we can interest more women and make the day more successful if we have several groups. We are featuring five special groups: I. The quilting group. This takes care of the traditional work day and supplies an interest for the older ladies. II. The rug group. From material that would otherwise be discarded as useless, we make eight different kinds of home-made rugs. This gives work for many who are not quilters, but are willing to help. III. Art group. In all of our homes, besides the useful, we need the beautiful. Art things are always expensive. If we make our own decorations, we will appreciate them more. The plan is to have a professional art craft teacher give lessons to the ward supervisors each month. IV. Sewing group. We realize that many of our women have done sewing; but the finishing and technique that makes the difference between really fine work and the unsatisfactory things we often see is due to the fact that many who have to sew have never had an opportunity for instruction. This year we hired a professional teacher (Mrs. Thomas). She has given our supervisors a lesson each month to take to the association. The lessons are: 1. To know cloth—kinds for different purposes; how to buy—quality and quantity; preparations of 169 cloth—washing, sponging, cleaning, pressing, shrinking, cutting, etc. 2. Stitches: all different kinds. How and where to use them; learn the sewing vocabulary; helpful suggestions in knowing the business of sewing; suggestions to teachers. 3. Seams, hems, bindings, facings, bias—how to cut and sew. Bias tape as a trimming. 4, Button holes — bound and stitched—how to sew on buttons, snaps, etc. Plackets — different kinds and when to use them. 5. Pockets—tailored, vest, bound, inset, patch, etc.—how to make, where to use. 6. Sleeves—how to measure, cut. Hang, and sew; cuffs and collars as trimmings. 7. Cutting from measurement. Our other three lessons will be given in fitting and finishing; also remodeling suggestions. V. The mothers group. The aim of this group is: 1. For the Society a. To make our association better and more attractive than clubs. b. For our young mothers to get the Relief Society habit. c. To increase our attendance, as it does. In nine of our wards an increase of from 9 to 25 new members is reported. 2. For the mother a. To supply a social need for the mother. She can bring her babies, a special room and entertainment being supplied on that day for the children. b. To give relief to the over burdened mother by helping her solve her greatest problems—managing her children in a scientific and successful way. c. Home appreciation—family appreciation with a religious background; the need of establishing a stable community life. Patterns, and 170 3. Aim for the home. The father's co-operation is solicited in this work. Understanding and practicing right principles makes happier homes. 4. For the community. a. Popularizing higher principles in home life. b. Giving the home and family its proper place in public opinion. 5. For the child—a happier home and a better chance. The work of the mothers group. The time is divided into three parts: I, play, II, work, III. Study. Each division has nine lessons in one year's outlines. I. Play—For small children — Kindergarten songs and games that mothers can engage in and still be about their work. October—Introduction, to show mothers the value of play—what it means to mother and child. We love those we play with, and we play with those we love. Love is conditioned by the effort to entertain, and this service is conditioned by love. October—Substituting things to play—Poem, "Let's Play". Broom or stick for horse; blocks make train; chairs for cars: etc. Make a "list of substitutes" know the value. Mothers should enter into this spirit and assist with their interest but not interfere. November — The imagination. Play without toys. Go through motions of making a cake, driving a car, cooking food, preparing and serving a dinner. Children get a lot of fun if presented wisely. What does the clock say? It will say anything you want it to. Ma-ry-be-good. Bil-ly don't-cry. The rhythm quiets a noisy irritable child, puts them in harmony with rhythm; it soothes. Play we have a baby— everyone must whisper and step quietly so that the baby will not awaken, etc. Songs: "I went across the street" —in motion. "Here's a ball for baby." "So early in the morning." Poems: "On Monday I wash my dolly's clothes" (motion). (There is not room here to give poems and songs in full). December—Hearing. Games and songs that may make children keen in detecting sounds. Recognizing common and unusual sounds, as dropping a spoon, knife and fork; the songs of birds; knowing sound of the step of different members of the family; recognizing tones of voice of different members of the family when they speak the same word. Song: "O, listen to the rain." Games: "I am thinking of a word," "Come G. Come," "Clock talk," "Poor pussy." Playing Santa Claus is popular among small children during December, and also learning Christmas songs and poems. Unselfishness may be correlated with this month's play. January — Sight. Games that stimulate quick recognition by sight. 1. Holding an object up for a second; let the child who recognizes it first have privilege to take his turn of holding up an object. 2. Black-board games. 3. I spy—a game or competition to see who can be first to spy special objects from the window, as cars, bicycles, dogs, men, etc. 4. Drawing. May trace against window. 5. Use of colored crayons, beads, tops, buzzers, blocks, etc. 6. Cut postcards into pieces and put together again. 7. Games—hangman (blackboard game); I spy (a hunting game directed by the words hot and cold); the kaleidoscope. NOTES TO Poems and songs on nature that may help children to see things about them. Asking for descriptions of places they have been. February—The sense of Touch. Madam Montessori Methods. Through touch we learn weight; texture of materials, as cloth, wood, iron, vegetables, etc; surface as smooth, rough, slick, sticky, etc., quality of fabric as wool, cotton, silk, etc. Game—guess what is in a number of small bags, one of meal, salt, starch, flour, wheat, etc. Songs and poems: Gentleness can be correlated with this lesson. March—Motion—for grace, balance, steadying of the nerves. Have a plank for the child to walk on— two dimensions will make two different heights, as 2 by 4. Have child walk on a line or pattern of the carpet. The morning exercise on the radio. Dancing. To make the child skilled in using hands, use soap and clay modeling. Making shadows on the wall. Songs—all little motion songs: "Here's a ball for baby," "A caterpillar on the ground," "I went into a strange foreign land." April—Family tests, for weight, height, strength, holding the breath, measuring chest expansion, etc. Keep record and watch for increase in ability and growth. Honesty and accuracy can be correlated with this lesson. Memory tests are also interesting. May—Planning for family excursions to park, swimming, etc. As far as possible let children plan and prepare for family trips or celebrations. Guessing games on taste and smell, teach child to discover what he really tastes by holding the nose and trying to discern flavors. Work Period Each day some simple constructive work that mothers can have their THE FIELD 171 children do. If children work with mothers they learn what mothers have to do. Nearly every month has a holiday. Let the children make favors, table decorations, decorate the house for festive occasions. In group work we can determine at about what age children can accomplish certain work and take certain responsibilities. Much of the work taken here is preparation for entertainment, and is recommended to be given as rewards when children have promptly and quickly attended to their routine of responsibilities. October—Beads. Children love to string beads. If broken strands are kept they can make combinations. A child three years old broke her beads. She restrung them. The beads were graduated in size and she made only one mistake. Large wooden beads may be purchased for small children to string. Colors may be sorted, or designs made. Children at three can learn to sew on their own buttons. Children can sort buttons and string all of one kind on a string. At what age can a child button his own clothes? Carry a glass of water without spilling? Etc. Children love to do things when they feel the task is important and appreciated. Halloween decorations and favors are easily made and appreciated by the children, even in the home if there is no party. November—Things that can be made from paper. By folding and cutting, paper dolls, furniture, caps (2 kinds), ships, chickens, windmills, etc. Weaving paper mats baskets, etc. Sewing outline drawings on cards, afterwards on bibs, dishtowels, etc. Thanksgiving decorations and table favors and place cards can be made. December — Xmas suggestions and presents for members of the 172 family. With a pocket knife and a coping saw boys can make bread boards, cake boards, tie racks, etc. Girls can make needle work designs for towels, handkerchiefs, etc. Salt beads. We solicit suggestions from all members. (We make our own models and present at the union meeting). Supervisors make their models before going to class. At what age can a child begin to assist in setting the table? At what age can children wash hands, face, neck, comb hair, etc. January—What can we do with spools? Make wagons, cradles, tops, hay forks (spools for pulleys), doll furniture, book cases, weaving, color spools, and string. With cigar boxes and pocket knives, boys can make many things. Crepe paper and oil cloth novelties can be made by small girls. At what age can children peel potatoes and help to prepare vegetables? What age can children learn to make their beds and keep rooms tidy? February—Three holiday or festive occasions. Lincoln and Washington's birthday and Valentine's Day. Patriotic things—flags, red, white and blue decorations, a cake frosted to represent flag. Gum drop pigs for Lincoln's birthday, hatchets for Washington's birthday. If children plan and work for little parties they will appreciate them more. Let mother be the helper and director. For Valentines, decorate a cake as a valentine—heart shaped nut cups. Original designed valentines give the child something to occupy his time, and make for accuracy; also teach color, design, form, proportion, and aesthetics. A valentine is a message of love. March—Spring starts with March with outside games. We present our Easter novelties because it would be too late to give them in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE April. Easter novelties made from egg shells—baskets, cradles, flower pots (plant in them crocus bulbs); make pigs, rabbits, color shell, make faces, make hats and bonnets for them. Make from gum drops and candy eggs, baskets, pigs, and rabbits. For the table, cup cakes with candy rabbits or chickens in green frosting; make cake look like a nest with cocoanut; put eggs and candy yellow chicks on for decoration. Salad: 1. Boiled eggs cut to look like a flower with yellow center; place on plate with shredded lettuce. 2. Boil eggs hard; take shell off; place eggs in beet vinegar to color them red; cut as above or in slices for salad. How to make a kite— book of knowledge. At what age can a child commence helping with the cooking? When is a child responsible for money? April — Children can make flippers, bows and arrows, for target shooting; whistles of several types can be made in early spring. A parachute made of a square piece of cloth, a string tied to each corner, a weight tied to the four strings. Prepare a garden spot, vegetable or flower garden. Are lessons in dancing and music considered as work or as play? How can we discover the special aptitudes of our children? May—How can we obtain the cooperation of our children in the home work? Why do children like to work for the teacher? Why do children like to work for a neighbor or in some other home? Necessity of getting children to school on time helps to regulate many homes during school months; in the summer, this restraint is removed. We suggest that parents learn the value of regularity; value of definite routine responsibility; value of using a chart to assist them. (Franklin NOTES TO used a chart). Suggest Knighthood of Youth chart for the child. A suggestive chart for mothers to keep for the child. Chart Date ................................. Physical condition.................. Food used............................. Recreation enjoyed................... Work ability......................... Child's attitude..................... Mother's attitude.................... Weekly or monthly markings Study For the success of this work we owe much to Miss Jean Cox, supervisor of adult education in the State of Utah, who has shown special interest in this course. She has furnished outlines on several of the subjects we have studied. The outlines were prepared by Miss Anna Page, who has also showed great interest and helped in the work. Oct.—Why study our family— no two children are alike. What makes the difference? How to meet our situations successfully. Get others' view points. Profit by others' experiences. Nov.—Heredity and environment. The part these play in forming child character. Dec.—Attitude of parents to children and their responses. Jan.— Attitudes and emotions of children and the part they play in their adult life. Feb.—Discipline and obedience. Mar.—Rewards and punishments. Apr.—Sex problems. May—The adolescent child. Some of our wards are so interested that they make two sessions each month. They do the study work at the meeting and meet at the different homes for the work THE FIELD 173 and play sections. It makes the social contact stronger. In another ward so many want both the sewing and mother group they have the sewing lesson in the forenoon. Another ward is holding the art work at the home of the art supervisor so more can attend the mother group. Many of the older mothers ask the privilege of attending the mothers group so they can take the information to their daughters who live out of our stake, who have little children they cannot leave or for other reasons they cannot attend. We have been asked if we will hold this course through the summer for those who could not come during the winter. We ask that each group on our workday keep a roll and that members register for the separate classes, that they may feel more responsible for being present at all the classes. We have a suggestive outline for a four years course for the mothers group. Miss Page has sanctioned it and recommends it. Mother's Group Study for Four Years (Subject to Changes) First Year—pre-school age—(physical) Why study Appetite and habits Eating and foods Sleeping Elimination. Play Sex Temper Second Year—emotional— Mental growth and emotions Love Fear Anger Conscience Entertainment Imagination Child's faults Complexes Third Year—parents 1. The Parents Part 2. Methods of training 3. Parents Faults 174 4. Corrective method 5. Child's viewpoint 6. Rewards and punishments 7. Honesty 8. Industry 9. Citizenship Fourth Year—adolescent— 1. Mental and physical development RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 2. Emotions 3. Attitudes 4. Social 5. Financial 6. Sex. 7. Cooperation and companionship 8. Morals 9. Spiritual and life's work. Notes from the Field New Zealand Mission: Even from far away New Zealand, interesting tidings of the activity of Relief Society come to us. Sister Jennie Magleby, who has been president of the New Zealand Mission Relief Society for the past four years, writes as follows: "It has been my good fortune to help usher in the new programs of Relief Standing, Sister Takare Duncan, First President of the Relief Society in New Zealand. Seated, Mere Meha, 1st Counselor; Ani Renata, 2nd Counselor. Society work as outlined by the General Board; to see many new organizations established, with many more sisters enrolled and taking part in this wonderful work. We use the Relief Society Magazine in all our class work, and find it a wonderful aid, and a very effective exponent in putting over our work. The lessons from the Magazine are translated into the Maori language and published in our Mission paper for the benefit of all. The yearly reports for 1931 show an increase of three new branches, thirty-two new members, more meetings held, better attendances, and more time and money spent for charitable purposes." We quote the following from a history of the mission: "In the year 1901, under the able direction of President John E. Magleby, the first Relief Society of New Zealand was organized. Sister Takare Duncan was chosen and set apart as president, and Sisters Mere Meha and Ani Renata as her two counselors. After receiving instructions as how to carry on the work, Sister Duncan traveled throughout the Mission, organizing Relief Societies. Very few trains were running throughout the Island, and the roads were very rough, which necessitated most of the traveling being done on horse-back. Wherever the roads were good, buggies were used. The branches were few and far between, NOTES FROM THE FIELD and oftentimes a
night or two was spent by the wayside. "The early work was that of teaching the Maori women how to care for their homes and families, how to cook, how to make their own clothes, and also teaching them the Gospel principles. Sister Duncan was a faithful worker in pioneering the cause of the Relief Society in New Zealand. She is respected and loved by all those who have labored with her in this capacity. She is 66 years of age and still active and happy. Her two counselors are both alive, and whenever the three meet they enjoy talking over old experiences and incidents concomitant with the early rise and spread of the Relief Society work. In company with her husband, Sister Duncan made two trips to Salt Lake City to go through the Temple. The first trip was to receive their endowments, and the second time they were called by President Joseph F. Smith on special Temple work. Not until eleven years ago was Sister Duncan released from the Mission Relief Society. Today she is still an active worker in her branch. "The first counselor, Sister Mere Meha, has been a very capable worker in the capacity of her calling. She, too, was very active in pioneering the work of the Relief Society. The Elders always have a real Maori welcome, Haere Mai, at her door. Last May, at the age of 76, Sister Meha was the "life" of the Temple party—a group of thirteen, who made the trip of eight thousand miles to obtain their endowments in the Hawaiian Temple at Laie. By saving every penny of her money for a considerable time, she was able to provide her own $225.00—the necessary amount for the trip—the substantial aid offered by the Mission Relief Society was not needed. She is one of the very 175 tew of her age to learn to speak the English language fluently. She is a devoted Church worker, and a hardy pioneer. "The second counselor, Sister Ani Renata, is a staunch and devoted worker also. Besides being a Mission worker, she was president of the Tamaki Branch for twelve years, and was much loved by those working under her. She and her husband were also members of the last Temple group. "In later years it has become the policy of the Mission to place the Mission President's wife as President of the organization, with Maori sisters as counselors. Many changes have taken place, not only in the country, but in the Maori people. Trains now run to almost every part of New Zealand, and the automobile has taken the place of the horse and buggy. Schools are erected everywhere, and most of the Maoris are educated, and are on the same level as the Europeans. "The work of the Relief Society in the Mission is growing. Today there are fifty-two organizations, with a membership of 607. The lessons and outlines of work are taken from the Relief Society Magazine, and the work is patterned as near that of the home Relief Societies as possible. "For the past four years, with Sister Jennie Magleby at the helm, the work has grown by leaps and bounds; new programs have been introduced, and much interest added to the work. The sisters have found life more abundantly through being anchored to the truth, and enjoy their work of 'aroha' in the Gospel of the 'hearty hand shake'." Tahitian Mission: ANOTHER interesting report is from Sister Marguerite S. Bur176 bridge, president of the Tahitian Mission, which reads as follows: "I desire to report our Relief Society Conference which was held 'April 9, 1931. We had a very nice meeting, and some very interesting testimonies were borne. We did not have as many in attendance as we had hoped for, but on account of the bad financial condition of the natives, there were very few came from the Upper Islands. However, all the sisters in Papeete were in attendance. At the close of the meeting a dinner was served to all Relief Society members, as well as to all the members of the Church, and a very lovely time was enjoyed. We did not have a pageant this year, as I was very busy putting on an operetta with the children. We are enjoying our work down here very much, and feel that we are being blessed beyond measure." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Northwestern States Mission: From the Northwestern States Mission comes the beautiful picture, and account of the Relief Society pageant, which was presented in Seattle, also in Tacoma. "The Guardianship of Life,' was presented by the Relief Society of the Seattle Branch of the Northwestern States Mission, on November 13, 1931. The divine and spiritual message contained in this pageant, it was staged in such a delightful manner, the characters were so well chosen, and the magnificent flowers of the Northwest enhanced our stage setting to such a degree, that a repetition was thought necessary in order that more of the people of the branch would have the opportunity of seeing a production carrying so much of worth to all. This second production was given November 22, 1931, in conjunction PAGEANT "THE GUARDIANSHIP OF LIFE," SEATTLE BRANCH, NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION NOTES FROM THE FIELD with a Sunday Evening service, and our chapel was well filled. Visitors from the Tacoma Branch were in attendance that evening, and at a request from their Presidency, Seattle presented the pageant again in Tacoma, Friday evening, December 11, the closing night of a bazaar given by the Tacoma Branch, It was such a beautiful thought to present and leave with our sister branch at the Yuletide season, that it gave the Seattle Relief Society officers and members much happiness in doing it. The production was under the direction of Mrs. Alma Benson, President of the Seattle Branch, a most capable Relief Society member, Sister Pauline Lanyon, assisted by Jeanette T. Batt. Sister Laura Shomaker, first counselor in the Seattle Y. L. M. I. A., played the musical accompaniments. In the Tacoma offering Sister Onlyn Weiser sang the solo, "O My Father." Southern States Mission: From the Southern States Mission, Sister Grace E. Callis, Relief Society President, writes of their year's activities. "We offer the report of the work done by the Relief Societies of the Southern States Mission with a feeling of gratitude to the Lord for the increase in the number of Societies, growth of membership, the growing sympathy for the sick as expressed in increased and frequent visits to the sick, and the large amount of food, clothing and money distributed to the worthy poor, not all of whom are members of the Church. "Nobly and generously have the sisters responded, to the call requesting each of them to make or donate one or more articles of clothing to give the poor. With commendable public and civic spirit the women of several Societies have met with public charitable organizations and assisted in making clothing for the 177 destitute, thus showing that they have pity for the unfortunate outside as well as inside the Church. Most of the Relief Societies have prepared a written account of their organizations, which is really a history of the founding and the progress made up to date by the Relief Societies. All the officers are being urged to furnish this data for the historical records of the mission. The sisters sense the necessity of learning their duties more fully as members of their organization. During the year conferences were held. The questions asked by these unselfish workers disclose their willing minds and spirits to engage in this good cause. "With genuine missionary spirit some of the sisters have engaged in missionary work, joining themselves with the lady missionaries in tracting and holding cottage meetings. They have assisted in providing Christmas trees loaded with toys for the children. The strangers, the missionaries and members attending district conferences, have partaken without charge of substantial food provided and prepared by the sisters. "The spirit of patriotism had marked the planting of trees in honor of the Father of our Country. This act of recognition of George Washington has elicited much favorable comment from non-members. "In doing Relief Society work, not forgetting the nature of it as taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith, we are blessed of the Lord. Our visits to the sick, the knowledge that it is more blessed to give than to receive, give us a foretaste of heaven, and the blessed testimony that we are pleasing God. Faith in the Gospel is strengthened by the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine, and the counsel and instruction given by our Relief Society leaders make us happy and more efficient in our work." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON: President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager Assistant Manager: Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman 

VOL. XIX MARCH, 1932 No. 3 EDITORIAL The Relief Society as a Means of Self Realization Self preservation is said to be the first law of life. Life is sacred and it is well that people hold it so valuable and preserve it so tenaciously; but higher than the preservation of it is the realization of self, developing the innate possibilities, calling forth the hidden talents. We know of no organization that so completely helps women to realize self as does the Relief Society. The Master laid down the law of self realization when he said, "Whoever will be great among you, let him be your minister, and whoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant." They who follow this admonition realize the paradox of finding life through losing it. The women of the Relief Society realize their better selves by transcending their personal desires and ministering to the general good, by forgetting self for others. They are enriched by their service. No wonder they are deeply spiritual, for in the realm in which they minister one is enriched, not by what is kept but by what is spent. They find the most satisfying happiness in making others happy. They are freed from selfishness, for in their work "sacrifice is growth and service is freedom." Besides the opportunity for service to others, the Relief Society recognizes the rhythm of life?taking in, giving out. It senses the fact that "it is not selfish to cultivate one's faculties, to develop one's talents, to make the most of one's opportunities." The study courses offer educational advantages that are deeply appreciated by the membership. Many women are being educated in the broadest sense of the word through the classwork. Brigham Young said, "Education is the power to think, the power to act, and the power to appreciate." The Relief Society develops all three of these powers. One possesses only the talents that are used, for without cultivation they shrivel and die. The Relief Society woman multiplies her powers through using them. Through this organization opportunity is given for the members to express themselves, and it is a well known fact that expression clarifies thought. Much responsibility is placed upon the shoulders of the officers, and responsibility develops undreamed of powers. The Relief Society woman's emotions are developed through sympathetic understanding and tender ministrations. For ninety years the Relief Society has fulfilled its mission "searching after objects of charity 179 and administering to their wants," developing the members, "provoking the brethren to good works, putting down iniquity and strengthening the virtues of the community," "holding all characters sacred," providing for its members an outlet for the "feelings of charity" that are God-implanted in the woman-heart. From the day it was organized, when the Prophet turned the key, the Society has rejoiced, knowledge and intelligence have flowed freely, and better and better days have been enjoyed by the women who are honored in being connected with this great organization that was founded by the Prophet, and that is instructed and sustained by the Priesthood. Kindness, charity and love have continually crowned its work. The National Council's Participation in the Century of Progress Exposition At the Chicago World's Fair held forty years ago, the women of the world held a great international conference. Now Chicago is planning another great exposition for 1933. This one is to be developed "upon scientific and educational lines and will point not only the way our civilization has come but perhaps the way it is to go." Early in 1931, Dr. Anna Garlin Spencer presented to the National Council of Women the desirability of the women again showing to the world the power and influence of their organized life. She hoped that in the 1933 exposition there would be a picture of women's organizations and their work in the social science building of the Century of Progress. She hoped that "this work would be crystallized through the publication of a book based upon scientific research and made a permanent record of the achievements of organized womanhood." Before her death, she had secured the generous cooperation of the Century of Progress Exposition. Approximately five million club women throughout the United States have pledged their cooperation to what is claimed to be "one of the most dramatic and spectacular projects which has ever engaged the attention of organized womanhood in America. They will unite in an exhibit at the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago in 1933, which will demonstrate the monumental accomplishments of women along cultural, philanthropic and welfare lines during the past one hundred years." Already the National Council has leased 2,400 square feet of floor space in the Social Science Building for the use of its twenty-one member organizations. "Here it will unfold the dramatic story of how 180 women's organizations have developed from the first small cultural societies to the large influential groups which play an important part in the civic life of America today." The National Council of Women will also sponsor an International Congress in connection with the Exposition, which women from many countries will attend. A research worker will prepare scientific material upon which the exhibits and the dramatic record will be based. A well-known woman writer will weave this material into a fascinating story of the work of women's organizations. The three projects were formally launched at a dinner given by the National Council of Women in honor of Mr. Rufus C. Dawes, President of the Century of Progress Exposition, at the Vanderbilt Hotel in New York City late in November. Approximately 150 women RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE leaders from various parts of the country attended. Mrs. James Moyle represented the National Woman's Relief Society. It was estimated that it would take at least $100,000 and two years' time to carry out these plans. After investigation it was found that the Postal Telegraph Cable Company was desirous of having women become better acquainted with its many services, and it offered to furnish $100,000 for the exposition projects if the organization would secure a million signatures to petitions to be sent to foreign governments asking them to send their most representative women to this exposition, these petitions to be signed, as far as possible, in the Postal Telegraph offices. Where this is not feasible, the petitions may be signed in meetings. As a member of the National Council, the Relief Society is cooperating in getting signatures to these petitions. Hyrum Gibbs Smith In the death of Hyrum Gibbs Smith, Presiding Patriarch of the Church, we lose one of our most beloved leaders. His public life was characterized by integrity, devotion to duty and an eagerness to serve and bless his people. He was gentle, retiring, earnest, loving and full of the spirit of blessing. It has been truly said that "no man who has held this position has more faithfully or honorably magnified the calling of patriarch than has he." His home life was beautiful. He and his wife were truly mated and were devoted to each other and to their children. The sorrow of parting will be assuaged by memories of the happy years spent together. He will be held in loving remembrance by the thousands to whom he has given blessings and by all who associated with him. May his family be comforted. May his children continue to walk in the paths marked out by their faithful father. Woman's Christian Temperance Union The Regional Conference of the National Woman's Christian Temperance Union that convened in the Hotel Bigelow in Ogden, January 25 and 26, 1932, had for its object, "to promote law observance; to study the problems of law enforcement; and to make vocal the sentiment in favor of national prohibition." One visiting the convention could tell that the old militant spirit that drove the saloons from the land is still here to maintain the ground already gained and to continue the fight for prohibition. The Reverend Harry T. Morris said, "There is no argument against the values and righteousness of prohibition. The business of the W. C. T. U. Is not to meet in circles and give platitudes about prohibition. Its business is to universalize the sentiment of the organization. The problem is to evolve methods to do the job." He urged that mothers of today rear their children with the same teachings on which he was brought up, that they may know the evils of liquor and resolve never to taste it! He emphasized the fact that "no law is effective unless man loves the law and obeys it because he wants to." One of the leaders, Mrs. Nellie B. Burger, quoted the words of Lincoln?"With public sentiment nothing can fail; without it, nothing can succeed." President Louise Y. Robison said that "to many people the 18th and 19th Amendments are but written in ink. It is the mission of every loyal American to make these words of ink a vital force written in the tables of the heart." The Reverend Dr. Rollin Ayres said, "Prohibition came because every other expedient had failed." One speaker after another gave instruction, encouragement, information, and roused the determination of the delegates to carry on in the worthy cause. Happening By Claire Stewart Boyer This poem received second honorable mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest Three times in my daily wanderings A soul flashed its golden hue Out of the dark to my lonely soul, And none else knew. The first was a kiss as fresh as the dawn Coming over A hilltop of grief, And my heart looked up in wonderment With a child's belief. Yet I faltered as a child must do, Not knowing which way life leads, Till a smile shone warm as the summer sun And filled my needs. Then came a word, a crystal sound From lips that were closed before, And the day brought me unexpectedly To heaven's door. EDITORIAL 181 Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in May) The Book of Mormon: Nephite Ideas of the Rich and the Poor. Select Readings: Alma, chapters 29-35, inclusive. Are there any new ideas here? If so, what are they? One of the things that make the prophets outstanding in the history of revealed religion is their attitude toward the rich and the poor. Isaiah is a signal example of this. "What mean ye,' demands the prophet, "that ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of the poor?" And elsewhere he exclaims, "Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write grievousness which they have prescribed; to turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless!" Also he predicts the time when "the meek shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel." Jesus, however, is the most notable example of sympathy with the poor and the oppressed. One of the signs that he was the Christ, as he told the disciples of John was that "the poor have the gospel preached unto them." Every reader of the Gospels remembers how Jesus isolated the widow who, out of her poverty, had given her "mite" in the temple. Every one knows also what he said about the difficulty which the rich would encounter in their attempt to get into heaven. And then there is Lazarus and the rich man?a classic example. Now the spirit of the Book of Mormon, so far as this phase of life is concerned, is of a piece with that of the prophets and of Jesus. That astonishing man Jacob, whom we have had several occasions already to quote, has something also to say on this subject. "Wo unto the rich, who are rich as to the things of the world. For because they are rich they despise the poor, and they persecute the meek, and their hearts are upon their treasures; wherefore, their treasure is their god. And behold, their treasure shall perish with them also." (II Nephi 9:30) King Benjamin, who lived in the second century before Christ, elaborated on this theme in a discourse which he made to his people. Here are the ideas he advanced:: (1) The "substance" which the rich claim as their own is not theirs at all, but God's. In this he agrees with another, the psalmist, who says, "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof." This is the ground that all the prophets take, who have spoken on the subject. Men are only "stewards," as our own prophet stated in his time. (2) Those who have sufficient to live on from day to day should impart of their substance to those who are poor. And this for the reason that all are really "beggars," the rich as well as the poor; the rich "beg" the Lord for a remission of their sins, even if they do not beg LESSON DEPARTMENT for their bread. The King adds: "If ye judge the man who putteth up his petition to you for your substance that he perish not, and condemn him, how much more just will be your condemnation for withholding your substance, which doth not belong to you, but to God, to whom also your life belongeth." The Book of Mormon, however, nowhere condemns riches as such, nor the rich because of their wealth. It condemns only the attitude of mind so often induced by money values. And in this there is agreement with all that is elsewhere said on the subject. To come again to Jacob's teachings (2: 17 19): "Think of your brethren like unto yourselves, and be familiar with all and free with your substance, that they may be rich like unto you. But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good?to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted." King Benjamin touches a point that still, after more than two thousand years, is much mooted. He says (Mosiah, 4:16-18): "And also ye yourselves will succor those that stand in need of your succor; ye will administer of your substance unto him that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to perish. "Perhaps thou shalt say: The man has brought upon himself his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just. But I say unto you, O man, whosoever 183 doeth this the same hath great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he hath done, he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the kingdom of God." And then (in verse 22) follows that passage about judging, already quoted. This problem of the poor and the rich, therefore, appears to have given the Nephites the same concern as it is giving the world today. And they sought to solve the problem chiefly, it seems, by requiring charity on the part of the rich toward the less "fortunate." Our solution is mainly through another channel. After the visitation of Christ to the Nephites this problem was solved by the adoption of what is known among us as the "united order," or the "order of Enoch." The united order, so far as we know, was first employed as a means of handling the matter of the poor and the rich in the City of Enoch. Hence one of its names. Enoch lived the sixth generation from Adam. Says the Bible: "Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him." In the Pearl of Great Price, however, we learn much more about him. His people were living under the united order; they had all things common; and there were no rich and no poor among them. This order prevailed also among the first disciples of Christ. The account says, "And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul: neither said any of them that aught of the things which he possessed was his own; but they had all things common. Neither was there any among them that lacked: for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them and brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid 184 them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need." (Acts 4:32-37) But the most successful attempt to live the united order so far as our information goes, was among the ancient Nephites after the time of Christ. Here is what is said of the matter: "And they did minister one to another; and they had all things common among them, every man dealing justly, one with another. And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another. And they had all things common among them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the heavenly gift." (III Nephi, 26:19; IV Nephi, 1:2, 3) This condition went on from the year thirty-six, A. D., to the year two hundred and one, A. D. In this last year the historian writes, "From that time forth they did have their goods and their substance no more common among them." Whereupon, he continues, "they began to be divided into classes; and they began to build up churches unto themselves to get gain, and began to deny the true church of Christ." (IV Nephi, 1:26, 27) To sum up the question of the rich and the poor as it appeared among the Nephites: (1) There was the customary social division among them of the rich and the poor. Many allusions to this classification are made throughout the narrative of the thousand years of Nephite history: The first Nephi tells of it by way RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of prophecy and warning (I Nephi, 13:7, 8). Alma the Younger refers to it disapprovingly (Alma, 1:29, 30). All through the history, in fact, this division on the basis of property ownership runs like a scarlet thread. (2) An earnest attempt was made during all this time to handle the problem. This was done mainly by the prophets, and their appeal seems to have been through religion. They sought to induce the rich to look after the interests of the poor and unfortunate, by telling them that their salvation in the next world would be in question if they did not. We read of no effort on the part of the state to relieve the situation. The efforts made, however, appear to have been only temporary in their nature, and did not go to the root of the economic question. (3) This root-remedy was attempted only after Christ furnished the idea and the impetus. It was the united order, and involved the principle of equality in temporal concerns?which is the primary inequality in the world as at present constituted. And the basis of this order was found in the spirit of religion. A consideration of the principles, of the united order in our own times will doubtless furnish a clue to what was done under Enoch, under the ancient apostles in Palestine, and at the time it was practiced among the Nephites. Here are these principles in brief: (1) Inequality in temporal things is an artificial, not a normal, condition. "It is not given," says a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, (49:20) "that one man should have that which is above another, wherefore the world lieth in sin.' Furthermore, the Lord says in reference to this very matter of material inequality, "I say unto LESSON DEPARTMENT you, be one; and if ye are not one, ye are not mine." 'Let every man esteem his brother as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before me," the Prophet is told. "And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself. For what man among you having twelve sons, and is no respecter of them, and they serve him obediently, and he saith unto the one: Be thou clothed in robes and sit thou here; and to the other: Be thou clothed in rags and sit thou there?and looketh upon his sons and saith I am just?" (Sec. 38:24-26. ) (2) Temporal equality does not mean that every man should have the same amount as every other man of temporal goods. Edward Partridge, the first bishop of the church, was requested in the Kirtland branch of this order to "appoint unto this people their portions, every man equal according to his circumstances and his wants and needs." The man with a wife would "need" more than the man without; and the man with seven children would "need" more than the one with only three; and so on. (3) This equality in temporal things is a pre-requisite to equality in spiritual things. In a revelation given in 1832 (78) the Prophet is told (verses 3, 5, 6): "For verily I say unto you, the time has come, and is now at hand; and behold, and lo, it must needs be that there be an organization of my people, in regulating and establishing the affairs of the storehouse for the poor of my people, * * * that you may be equal in the bonds of heavenly things, yea, and earthly things also, for the obtaining of heavenly things. For if ye are not equal in earthly things, ye cannot be equal in obtaining heavenly things." (4) Not only a few members of 185 the church, but all of them, were to be under this order. "You are to be equal, or in other words, you are to have equal claims on the properties, for the benefit of managing the concerns of your stewardships, every man according to his wants and his needs, inasmuch as his wants are just?and all this for the benefit of the church of the living God, that every man may improve upon his talent, that every man may gain other talents, yea even an hundred fold, to be cast into the Lord's storehouse, to become the common property of the whole church?every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God." In the united order, therefore, we come face to face with the conflict between selfishness and service, between Christ and the "natural man.' Its adoption by the Saints in Missouri and Ohio days was unsuccessful partly because of human weakness and partly because of circumstances over which they had no control?outside opposition. Since then the law of the united order has been held in abeyance, excepting for some trials of it in a few places in Utah?Orderville, Glenwood, and Brigham City. After the Redemption of Zion, whenever that event takes place, the practice of this economic principle will be renewed. With us, as soon as the united order was abandoned, a lesser law, the law of tithing, took its place. But there is no mention of tithing in the Book of Mormon in connection with their own religious practices. Questions 1. How important is the matter of earning a living in the modern system? Explain how it is that the "love of money" is the "root" of 186 all evil. What is the cost of living per individual in the United States? What danger is there in the accumulation of large surpluses of wealth? 2. To what extent is "charity" a solution of the unemployment problem? Tell about the "dole" in England. Is it true that a poor man is to blame for his condition? Has society any part in that blame? If so, what part? Why does the Lord so often express sympathy for the poor and censure for the rich? Are riches in themselves bad? Why do you think so? 3. What is the united order? Tell about its practice among the people of Enoch, among the early RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE disciples of Christ in Palestine, among the Nephites, among the Latter-day Saints. Why is wealth so often a hindrance to the enjoyment of spiritual blessings? Explain the sentence, "It is not given that one man should have that which is above another." Explain: "If ye are not equal in earthly things, ye cannot be equal in obtaining heavenly things." Under our present economic system, talent is often undeveloped in the youth for lack of means. Show that this would not be the case under the united order. Compare tithing with the united order. To what extent would there be individual ownership, and to what extent public ownership, under the united order? Teachers' Topic Watchword: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house."?Luke 10:5. Text: "If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me."?Matthew 16:24. This injunction together with the record of the life of our Savior, gives us to understand that life to the faithful is not to be one of ease and pleasure. Had He intended us to pass through this existence casually, He would have set the example by doing so Himself; but that was not the pattern that He gave us to follow. When He said that he who would come after Him must deny himself, and take up his cross and follow Him, it was no idle phrase. He meant that there would be a cross for each to bear, and that earthly pleasures must be renounced. Had Jesus chosen the gratification of temporal power He would have been greater than Pilate or Herod in their time. What is the glory which they achieved compared to the memory of Him who has lived in the hearts of mankind for nineteen centuries? They are remembered only because of Him. Time has dimmed their glory, but year by year and century by century His light has grown brighter, His influence more strong. From poverty, suffering, crucifixion, He became the greatest power for good that the world has ever known. It seems natural and easy to us at this distant time for Him to have chosen as He did. We know little of the temptation He had to resist in choosing to be faithful to His trust. What we do know, and what. We must build upon is that He did choose righteously, and that that is the pattern He meant us to follow. That does not mean necessarily that we must be denied all earthly joys. It means that for everyone LESSON there is a cross. Those who refuse to bear the cross cannot follow Him. When two of His disciples sought, through their mother, positions of honor, He turned to them and said, "Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? * * * Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many."? Matthew 20:22-28. The message of Jesus' life, interpreted by unbelievers, becomes meaningless. To those who love Him it is the exemplar by which they can learn how to rise to the full stature of their spiritual possibilities. To follow Jesus, every Latter-day Saint must not only believe in Him, but with a steadfast purpose, must do as He did, speak DEPARTMENT 187 as He spoke, think as He thought. To be like Him we must indeed follow Him. He loved His enemies; do we love ours? He forgave those who crucified Him; could we do that? He was kind to the sinner; are we always kind? He accepted earthly tribulation as a spiritual discipline by which He gained strength; have we the vision and the courage to do the same? We believe that never for an instant did He forget His mission, or that He was the Son of God; do we always remember that we also are the children of God, and that true greatness is only attained through goodness, humility, and strength of character? To follow Jesus, He must become to us a reality, living, loving, helpful. We must not think of Him as passive and remote. We must be aware of His nearness and His love. We must cling to the promise that He made to those who follow Him: "And, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."?Matthew 28:20. Her Calling By Edith E. Anderson "I am only a visiting teacher," she said, As I asked of the calling she had: "Only a teacher," I answered and thought What cause she had to be glad. Only a teacher, through sunshine and storm, Making her rounds of cheer, To the sick and the lonely, the burdened and sad, Bringing the Comforter near. The true and the faithful, encouraging on; Allaying fair childhood's alarms, The weak and the wayward, the careless and proud, Enfolding in charity's arms. What calling more potent, could anyone have? The Master has said in His call, That those in His kingdom who would be great, Must freely give service to all. 188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature (Third Week in May) The Short Story of Today There are at least three questions every thoughtful student of the short story classes will want to ask herself before the work on The American short story is completed. She will want to know if the short story is showing any new developments; she will wonder who are the best writers; and she will desire to know where she can turn to find the best types of stories. The answer to the first question can be only an attempt. We have learned from our study of ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome, England, France, Germany, Russia, and Scandinavian countries, and America, a thing that we all knew more or less in the beginning. It is this?that only in matter of form does the short story change. In the chief essentials it has always been the same. We have traced it from the time that its chief purpose was to point a moral (and in every century it is used for this) down to a time when it is a widely used form of writing and its great purpose is to entertain?allow its readers to escape for a few minutes into a different world. In the nineteenth century, first Edgar Allen Poe and later lesser artists, observed certain qualifications that they felt a short story should have in order to belong to the type. The twentieth century masters and critics have in the main retained these qualifications. However, they have added a few more, all very characteristic of our times. A story must be a picture out of real life, and it must disclose the situation in the briefest manner possible, at the same time permitting the reader to see beyond the situation. The climax must be brief; in a few words it must bring together the essence of all that has gone before in such a way as to give a revelation to the reader. There must be no wasted words, and none that suggest triteness or a borrowed vocabulary. People who read stories nowadays are used to the flash of headlines, to the often cheap and hurried entertainment of the movies. They demand that stories "start at the crack of the pistol." They demand new situations and new sensations. In the main, stories have tended to become shorter. Readers want to finish one so that they can start something new. Their appetites have often become jaded; they look for more startling sensations. For these reasons there are many stories about success being achieved under unusual circumstances and great difficulties, more stories about crime and mystery, and many highly colored stories of city life and life in strange countries. And all of them must have swift action. Apparently the readers are in the minority who demand that stories have beauty in style and a profound insight into life. For this minority, there are, however, writers. There are always men and women who are willing to sacrifice commercial gain to write to please themselves. There are many writers, too, who are experimenting in form. The Russian writers for several decades have influenced certain Americans and the result is felt in a form called naturalism. Naturalism is merely the name attached to a technique which strives to achieve LESSON DEPARTMENT the effect of making people and action seem natural. A situation, to the naturalists, should not be contrived, but picked up from the everyday circumstances of common life. The characters must not be idealized or used to expound ideas. The action must show life as it is The conversation must be that of people as it is in real life, and it is not necessary to build a climax, because climaxes do not happen so often in life. One thing ends, another begins, and we may not be conscious of an event that has changed us. The naturalists, however, are turning more to form, just as the poets have been doing. On the whole, there are a great many writers who have achieved a very reputable technique. There is always a tendency towards journalizing stories; there is a steady growth of the "true confession" type, stories whose salaciousness is cloaked under the form of a moral lesson; and always a few worthy stories that help us to see life more clearly. Now to the second query. It is hard to judge which of our present day writers will live the longest, there is so much of all writing that is ephemeral. Blanche Colton Williams, one of the foremost critics of the short story, a decade ago, listed a number which she considered worthy. Among them are: Alice Brown, James Branch Cabell, Dorothy Canfield, Robert W. Chambers, Irvin S. Cobb, James B. Connolly, Richard Harding Davis, Margaret Deland, Edna Ferber, Mary W. Freeman, Hamlin Garland, William S. Porter, Joseph Hergesheimer, Fannie Hurst, Jack London, James B. Matthews, Melville D. Post, Mary Roberts Rinehart, Booth Tarkington, Edith Wharton, Susan Glaspell, Lincoln Coleord, Wilbur Daniel Steele, 189 Octavus Ray Cohen, Henry Van Dyke, Benjamin Rosenblatt, Richard M. Hallett, Arthur Johnson, Rupert Hughes. To this list must be added Willa Cather, Theodore Dreiser, Sherwood Anderson, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ruth Suckow. Katherine Bush, Ernest Hemingway, and perhaps Ring Lardner and Don Marquis. Oliver La Farge, author of "Laughing Boy" and another best seller, also writes short stories of a superior quality, and Mary Hastings Bradley and Mr. And Mrs. Colin Clements are writers who are gaining prominence. Almost all of Miss Williams' list are still writing for magazines. Booth Tarkington, who has been dean of American letters for so many years, has a story in nearly all of the collections of "best stories." He is, perhaps, the most gifted of all the American writers. To him has been given insight, humor, fantasy, and the power of making a large number of characters seem convincing, but he has seldom contrived to use these gifts to their fullest extent. Joseph Hergesheimer will always have a following, and his readers are particularly delighted when he follows romance to the past ages in American history. Sherwood Anderson. One of the naturalists, has the power to reveal a person's soul, and while many people object to his subjects. He is worth cultivating. And there is Ruth Suckow, a naturalist of a different sort. She writes simply and honestly of the people of her Middle West. Her work is too fine and truthful to have a wide audience, but she is a true artist. Her "Iowa Interiors" is one of her best collections. The third query is easier. There are a number of well-known magazines from which one can expect a 190 reasonable number of worth while stories, but each year a surprisingly large number of the stories that fill the two collections, the O'Brien and the O'Henry, come from the humbler magazines. The Saturday Evening Post, for all its department store array, always carries a few of the finest stories of the year. Harper's and the Atlantic can be counted on for a steady supply of good stories. Pictorial Review has a better average than the other woman's magazines, but The Woman's Home Companion, Ladies' Home Journal, McCall's, and The Delineator all manage to publish a few good tales. Scribner's Magazine, which belongs to the quality magazines, allows more experimentation, and is a favorite among college people. It is now trying to revive the longer short stories. Liberty and Collier's carry the quick action stories, and Cosmopolitan, a magazine specializing in great names, occasionally has a good story. The American Mercury is friendly to the experimenters, and there is a new magazine called Story. This is published by a group of writers who have had a hard time publishing in the older magazines. For class study two suggestions are offered: the study of Wilbur Daniel Steele's prize story in the O'Henry Memorial Award collection for 1931, "Can't Cross Jordan by Myself," and the study of a story in either the Improvement Era or the Relief Society Magazine. This wide choice is offered because some of the teachers will enjoy using a story from our church magazines, and because it will not be possible for every ward to procure the Steele offering. The "O'Henry Memorial Award Prize Stories of 1931" will be available at a good many public, school, and rental libraries, and the story itself can be found in the Pictorial Review for August, 1930. Wilbur Daniel Steele is one of America's foremost short story writers, and a man who believes that the art is worthy of a writer's best efforts. His "Can't Cross Jordan by Myself" was awarded the prize in the O'Henry 1931 collection by a large majority of the judges. While it would be misleading to think of it primarily as a religious story, it has for its theme the idea that immortality cannot be achieved unless one believes in immortality. It is full of delicately implied wisdom, and it is rich in humor and fantasy. On the surface the theme. Would seem to be rather ghostly, but the idea of ghosts does not trouble the reader while he is studying the story, nor does it leave uncomfortable feelings afterwards. The judge is too human and too likeable and so is the old negro servant. The plot is a simple one. An old southern judge who is honest, intelligent, well-liked, tolerant, and a thoroughly good man, has no belief in a future life As old age approaches, his great cross is that his northern daughter-in-law cheapens the old home with her seances. To avoid one of these he goes into the smoke house, a place made unsafe by age, and is killed by one of the loose beams or boards. It takes the judge sometime to learn that he is supposed to be a departed spirit? he is so much alive. One of his chief longings is for a peaceful place where he can ponder over his situation. But everywhere he goes he finds some one more troubled and earthbound than himself. He finally finds a quiet place in a western mine. His only neighbor is a man who is burdened with a sick conscience and a desire to complete LESSON DEPARTMENT the thing he worked for in life. The miner passes on the idea that the judge must still be on earth either because something is troubling him or some one needs him. The judge scoffs at the idea, but he drifts back to his old home. Here he finds that Sam, his old servant, was unwittingly the cause of his death. Sam has been lynched and is waiting for the judge's forgiveness to cross Jordan. As soon as the judge learns the trouble, he forgives Sam in a very human way, and Sam urges that they start for Jordan. Now the judge comes to grief. Sam can see the river Jordan, but to his master it is only a neighborhood stream. He refuses to put his feet into it and Sam reluctantly returns with his master. The judge finds his position humiliating, but when the story ends he has not yet seen the light. Whether he will ever be able to see it we do not know, but we like the servant and the old judge so well that we hope that Sam will convince the scoffer. The judge and Sam are not new characters. We have seen their like in many stories, but the situation, the humor, and the wisdom they impart are fresh and stimulating. It is a story to make one laugh and think. The Improvement Era's prize story, "Troubles," by Mrs. Olive M. Nicholes in the October, 1931, number is suggested. The setting of this story is in the Dixie country in the springtime and Mrs. Nicholes, whose husband has been. An educational leader in this country for a good number of years, knows and loves the land which she describes. Her story has for its theme the idea that man should not allow ephemeral troubles to shake his faith or to stop his labors and that the only real trouble is the 191 seeing of one's loved ones turning from paths of honor. She intimates, too, that even this trouble must be borne without complaint. The main story, that of the old man who helped to pioneer the country, has what is known as a frame. The frame is the younger man who has invested his money and hopes in a Dixie orchard and one morning gets up to see it killed by frost. The story is simply told, the local color?orchards, red hills, and black rocks?is convincing and sometimes beautiful. On the whole it has striven for the two qualities which Mr. O'Brien says each story must have?genuine substance and artistic form. It is in the first that the story is most lacking. The old man and his one great trouble are not as convincing as they should be. We do not feel his troubles as deeply as we should, nor do we identify ourselves completely with the younger man. The didactic note is a little too apparent and makes the climax forced. This critic wishes that the author had chosen all of her characters from the natives of Dixie instead of bringing one from New England. It is, however, well written and it carries a message that is much needed. In the October, 1931 number of the Relief Society Magazine there is a story by a well known Utah writer, Mrs. Ivy Williams Stone. All of the class members may have read it, but it will bear reading again. Mrs. Stone is a fluent writer with imagination and in this story she has dipped into philosophy. "Turn About" is a pleasing little story dealing with an old truth: that mankind is forever meddling in other people's affairs and that the meddling causes more sorrow and confusion than it does changes. The story is of a mother and two daughters. The mother is growing old 192 and since she has a little leisure time she turns to the cultivation of her mind and Indian philosophy. But her studies are interrupted by the conflict in her own home. She is made to realize that her daughters are in a turmoil because they are both trying to make each other over. It is some time before the daughters see each other's point of view and are ready to make concessions. There is a didactic note in this story, but it is a light one, and Mrs. Stone, like a true artist, does not make us believe that the struggles are over. We know that the women will always be irritating each other. However, they have seen a little light and we feel that they will be more tolerant and more mindful of their own lives. And next month we shall hear more about Mrs. Stone and other Utah writers. Since this is the last lesson, proper, on the short story, many teachers will feel it more profitable to ask RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some general questions about the course instead of studying the lesson story in detail. Here are some suggestive questions: Has this course changed my conception of the short story? Has it in any way changed my tastes in selecting short stories to read? What things will I demand in a short story? How will I judge its qualities? Will I read more short stories? What have I learned about other countries?racial characteristics, development of literature, authors, et cetera? Has it made me more understanding and tolerant? Can I give the characteristics of the short story in the countries I have studied? How many foreign authors do I know? Which of the authors I have studied do I like best? Which story is my favorite? Which country's stories do I like best and why? What is America's contribution to the short story? Is the short story as worthy a form of art novel writing? Social Service (Fourth Week in May) PERSONALITY STUDY: Doing Things DIFFERENTLY (Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 217-237) Sometimes we pride ourselves upon having reached "the highwater mark of human achievement." We point with confidence to this or that as evidence that we possess certain important essentials of a truly great civilization. At one time, it may be material advances we seem to be making?our industrial and commercial undertakings, our farflung territories and other material possessions, our five-year plans, our big navy, our per capita wealth; in short, our material well-being and efficiency. It would seem that these things should be had at all costs. At other times we quote with approval, as we have done in these lessons, that "the supreme and ultimate product of civilization is two or three persons, talking together in a room;" or that "'there is no greater job and no more profitable undertaking than the improvement of our own lives;" or that '"'persons, not things, represent the only true LESSON DEPARTMENT 193 values;" or that "the ultimate test or measure of the worth of an institution is the kind of personality it tends to produce"?in short, abiding personality values. These last standards often must go a begging for anything but a timid, non-aggressive presentation. On every hand we meet with false, trivial, or short-sighted standards for judging the success of a life or of an institution. To make things more confusing these are often urged upon us by prominent leaders. Some would judge a tree by its roots, a person by his ancestors, or an institution by its supposed origin. (Matt. 7:15-21.) Others rely on evidences of wealth or power. Still others seem to worship the god of efficiency?glibly prating about "a religion worth having" describing meanwhile a social system so crassly materialistic as to ignore utterly that our Heavenly Father yearns for our welfare, that man is an eternal being: capable of progress even beyond this life and that adequate opportunity for the exercise of his free agency is absolutely necessary for him to achieve the rich full life that Jesus came to reveal. (Jno 10:10; P. Of G. P., Moses 4:1-4.) Throughout this series of lessons we have emphasized the importance of human values as contrasted with mere physical property or things. We are learning to fully appreciate the fact that physical things and even great social institutions are merely means toward ends, but that human beings are ends in themselves?capable of infinite and eternal development. In our present lesson what does our author hold before us as most significant human achievements, as the "greatest asset of any civilization?" What does he disparage as being unworthy and unfruitful human enterprizes? Read the chapter critically and determine points of agreement and disagreement as well as your best reasons for the same. If we have caught the spirit of Overstreet's book as shown from the beginning on, we can recognize that here again he is trying to make us accept the proposition that we really can change ourselves and others for the better, that if we care enough about it we can be much more intelligent than we have been in carrying on what he calls the "major art of life." He says that we should overcome certain habits of mind that hinder our development and actively cultivate other habits that make for worthwhile initiative and originality. It does not require an unusual amount of social insight to recognize all about us examples of the "tabu habit of mind," the so-called ""housewife-mind," "pious fixity," "cookbook science," and other "rigidities and intolerances." The spirit of fearless and independent adventure coupled with a sufficiently disciplined sense of responsibility is indeed rare. Especially is this so when it is proposed to extend the methods of scientific research beyond the field of the physical and mechanical into the realm of the emerging social sciences. Why do so many people conceive of and worship a non-progressive Deity? Why do they regard their own salvation as a gift, at least as something not to be achieved mostly by themselves? 'Why do most people "remain far below their limit of efficiency even when it is decidedly to their interest to approach it, and when they think they are doing the best that they are capable of?" Why are most of us so "passively acceptive' when we should be stirred by a divine discontent? We have centuries of lazy customs and socially inherited institutions back of us which tend to make 194 us satisfied with letting things simply take their natural course. The old laissez faire doctrine when explicitly stated is sometimes recognized as at least theoretically unsound, but how many of us, nevertheless, act as though social progress is bound to automatically take place and that in due time the Millennium will be forced upon us. What tremendous psychological inertia must be overcome to put on foot the most commendable programs for widespread social welfare! In the present business depression there are plenty of people with really good plans for overcoming the ills which so long have been afflicting us, but it is another thing to get people generally to adopt any. Of them. For example, why are there not more sincere and widespread efforts made to cultivate less extravagant and less selfish personal habits? The detailed specifications implied in this simple proposal could be furnished and they would be acknowledged as good except that they wouldn't work?our inherited and acquired human nature being as it is?astonishingly fixed especially when we want the other fellow to make all of the disagreeable efforts involved. But if people could be motivated to actually achieve, each for himself, the new, less extravagant and less selfish habits, how long would the evils of the 'depression last? There are a number of hopeful signs that people are no longer extremely afraid of changes in our social order. Modern inventions have made us more aware than ever of different existing social customs throughout the world. Tremendous social, political, and economic experiments are actually taking place and being watched with interest if not with approval. We are, perhaps, less inclined than ever before RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to have handed down to us mere authoritarian or dogmatic solutions of social problems. Mere "piety" terms or personal authority don't go with the rising generation in matters that can be determined on the basis of the impersonal presentation of facts.. This new freedom is bound to lead many to throw out the child with the bath and to adopt plans that will surely prove to be impractical, but whether we like 'it or not people are going to try their hands at doing things differently. Let us be found among those who will be counted as creative forces in the impending social reconstructions. To do this we must not be unmindful of the tested values from the past that deserve to be perpetuated. Neither should we be so timid or so lacking in true insight that we cannot properly appraise many promising elements that are proposed for at least a fair trial in the society of tomorrow. A Few of the Possible Problems for Class Discussion 1, What important things would have been lacking in the benevolent despotism which Lucifer would probably have established if his plan had been accepted? (What elements, if any, in existing social systems remind you of this free-agency destroying plan?' 2. Explain what you regard as the ultimate test of the worth of an institution. Relate in your own words the story of "The Three Rings" from Lessing's Nathan der Weise (See Improvement Era, February, 1932, p. 209). What would it mean for Latter-day Saints to accept the challenge therein presented? What would it necessarily imply in the way of doing things differently? 3. Comment on 2 Nephi 9:16, 38 and Mormon 9:14 in relation to LESSON DEPARTMENT whether or not we should neglect opportunities here and now in the hope that a moral transformation will be easily or miraculously accomplished during the resurrection. Mention some of the outstanding traits of a truly progressive person. Are there people who simulate a progressive attitude? How do they do it? 4. Read the sentences in the text in which the following phrases occur and comment briefly on each: "unconscious rationalization," "monogamic marriage," "no margin of uncertainty," '"'almost more essential," and "horror of non-conformity." 5. Read the Social Service lesson in the March, 1931 issue of the Relief Society Magazine, and on the basis of this discuss as fully as you can the nature and development of worth-while initiative and originality. 6. Discuss problems 3 and 4 of this same former outline of this lesson. 7. It has been said that the poor and the relatively wealthy among us can and do get very good hospital care when this becomes necessary. 195 An important social problem that has not yet been tackled is the adequate provision of reasonably well trained and not too expensive nurses for the members of the middle class when they need such attention. In his address at the recent Brigham Young University Leadership week Dr. Middleton stated confidently that he believed that the Mormon Relief Society women could and would solve this problem as far as our particular society is concerned. What do you think of this problem and what specific suggestions do you have to offer? 8. In her Leadership Week lecture Countess Tolstoy stated that in the Russian Soviet so-called experiment, very important religious and personality values had been ignored. According to your understanding of the situation what evidences are there in favor or against her contention. 9. Read the sentences in the text which begin with the following phrases and comment briefly on each: ''Cook-book art," "So likewise do," "The same thing is true," "Bacon grouped these," "That desirable attitude" and "The first step." Be Fair By Elsie E. Barrett So many times in life 'tis true, While trying to do good? Because one's heart with love is filled Her keen desire is often killed? Because MISUNDERSTOOD. So many times acts misconstrued, Instead of which they should Be weighed more justly, motives found Before a wall is placed around The one MISUNDERSTOOD. Eat More Brown Bread "Eat plenty of whole wheat bread," is the advice of many physicians. Try our whole wheat brown bread. The fine ingredients and scientific preparation give it the elements of healthful body building. This delicious loaf is good for growing O. P. S. Brown bread will not crumble when sliced, and children. Makes a marvelous toast. O.P. SKAGGS Efficient Service STORES System "A Surety of Purity" An Inimitable Story By An Inimitable Story Teller "HER MOTHER'S DAUGHTER" By Pres. A. W. Ivins Will be enjoyed by every member of your family. Order your copy now and give the whole family a treat. Gift Book Style, 50c DESERET BOOK COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Cleanliness Is Easy With ELECTRIC SERVICE With a modern Electric Range in your home you don't have those black pans to scour. No soot. No You can take a pan off of your electric range and set it right on your white table cloth without fear of the tiniest speck of dirt: This makes housekeeping easy. Any model of Hotpoint or Westinghouse electric ranges COMPLETELY INSTALLED IN YOUR HOME for a small down-payment Come into our store for information on our combination rates, or phone us. Utah Power 6 Light Co. Efficient Public see dirt. No smoke. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ?-NOW THAT Are Equipped With / (o3> BPR Ser The new, exclusive, patented feature that has aroused the enthusiasm of workmen everywhere. Saves time, saves tools and valuables?and saves temper. THEY COST YOU NO MORE! Ask Your Dealer for Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits Equipped With Stop-Loss Pockets Manufactured in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory Printing with character is personality invested in the printed word. Let us put personality in your printing. It costs no more. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Was. 550 Salt Lake City, Utah CONFIDENCE When investing 'your savings choose an institution that has your utmost confidence. Insurance contracts issued by the Beneficial set out definite, positive values. Insurance regulations demand that proper reserves be set aside for the protection of each policy contract assuring absolute safety. You need have no worry over market values, for there is no fluctuation?all values are clearly set out in each policy, guaranteeing a fixed amount which increases each year. When your policy is issued by BIG HOME COMPANY  You enjoy the added advantage of sharing in the net profits without additional cost, for the Beneficial is the one company that offers. BIG HOME COMPANY. Participating Insurance At Low Non-Participating Rates. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO, Home Office?Salt Lake City Heber J. Grant, President. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XIX April, 1932 No 4. COAL? SERVES US AS EFFICIENTLY AS 'WE PERMIT IT TO From a coal fire built on the ground, in the open, to coal fired in a super-power plant?coal serves?but with efficiencies as varied as the equipment in which it is burned. Today's super-power plant produces a kilowatt-hour of electric power from one pound of coal. Rather a marvelous thing to contemplate, is it not? The same weight of coal burned on the ground in the open, will perhaps release as much energy, but most of the energy will be wasted. Is that not true? It is the same fuel, the difference is in equipment. Our heating plants range between the two extremes mentioned. The stove that is little more than a piece of enlarged stove-pipe serves in the watchman's shanty. There are many types of heaters:?the hot-blast; the hand-fired furnace that has been faithful through the years; the stoker fired, automatically controlled, late type furnace for homes and industrial plants; and many others including the old hand-fired furnace changed and brought up to date with a stoker and thermostat. With such a plant as last mentioned, the writer of this advertisement burned less than two tons of slack coal each month this winter, to heat his rather large bungalow, with an inside temperature variation of less than one degree through the season. If your plant is not doing so well, consult your coal dealer. Your coal dollars will go many times as far without stretching, as will your dollars spent for any substitute fuel. This office is at your service. Phone Was. 7054. Utah Coal Producers Association 709 Ezra Thompson Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ? If you knew all the facts about Coal you'd insist upon receiving ? CANYON.  ROYAL Coal; AT A MINIMUM OF EXPENSE: Ask Your Good Friend the Coal Dealer Genuine KNIGHT Spring Canyon and ROYAL Coal mined in Utah exclusively by e Knight Fuel Co. Royal Coal Co. Phone General Offices 8th Floor Newhouse Bldg. Phone Wasatch Salt Lake City, Utah Wasatch 1676 LEONARD E. ADAMS, General Sales Agent 1320 Invest in Home Prosperity, USE BEET SUGAR MURRAY LAUNDRY "More Leisure Hours Fer Mothers" Your Clothes Last Longer Because They Are Washed In RAIN-SOFT ARTESIAN WATER FOUR FAMILY SERVICES TO CHOOSE FROM PHONES American Fork 213 Bingham 213 Murray 213 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine X, for a Clean, Long-Burning Fire Hyland 612 ?More Leisure Hours for Mothers? Your clothes Last Longer Because They are Washing In RAIN-SOFT ARTESIAN WATER Four Family Services to Choose From Phones Wasatch 1637 American Fork 213 Bingham 213 Murray 213 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 19. April, 1932? No. 4 CONTENTS Almond Blossoms.......... Frontispiece Nature's Awakening........... Julina B. Green 197 The Door Mat........ Ivy Williams Stone 199 The Russian Religious Question Thomas L. Martin 209 Historic Markers?..Dr. George W. Middleton 213 Fidelity Edith E. Anderson 215 The Light Within?..Blanche Kendall McKey 216 Side Lights on the Book of Mormon..................John Henry Evans 218 High Noon on the Escalante................ Harrison R. Merrill 222 Happenings....... Annie Wells Cannon 223 What Mankind Gains from the Investigation of Nature............ J. H. Paul 224 Plowing..........(600 SORMMMBEL?Theron Luke 226 My Prayer?.. Josephine Gardner Moench 227 Notes to the Field 228 Notes from the Field......... 2... 232 Editorial?The Drawing Power of Christ.................... 237 The Sixth of April?. 238 The President of the National Council............... 239 Counselor Lyman Honored.................. 239 Lesson Department..........  240 Spring?A Fantasy...........Ezra J. Poulsen 256 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. Wet. No. 6 Light weight garment. Cotton, our standard garment 1.25 * Ladies' new style.................. 95 No. 3 Ribbed med. Wet. Cotton,;. ' bleached or unbleached. Our No. 7 Light weight Spring and or old style 1.50 No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies bleached cotton. Es double No. 9 Medium wet. Silk for men back number. Men's new or and women, new style only. Old style 2.00 Non-Run 1.75 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid' on orders accompanied by money order. Missionaries. Special discount to FACTORY TO YOU?THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Or old style, and if for man or lady. 464 Fine Ribbed cot................ 144 Spring needle, combed cot 508 Gauze Wt.,. Comb. Cot. Ladies........ 1.15 203 Med. Lt., Bleached cot............... 1.25 98 Special Rayon, ladies.................. 1.25 228 Med. Lt., Rayon Striped............ 1.35 Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new Postage prepaid.: 38 Lt. Wt., combed cot.............$1.35 105 Med. Lt., Unbleached cot. 1.35 252 Med. Wt., Firmly Knit cot. ?.... 1.45 282 Fine Crepe, ladies.....................-0. 1.65 306 Run resisting Rayon................... 1.75 527 Rayon plated, over comb. Cot....... 2.35 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 1 New style, ribbed light Wt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies' number..$1.25 all season number. Men's new No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached. Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style.. 2.75 Autumn garment. Men only 1.00 only, new style only..............? 1.00 Results Count L. D. S. Business College students are in demand by the successful business man Train at this school and be sure of success COMPLETE COMMERCIAL TRAINING $10.00 PER MONTH Including Gymnasium Privileges + Smith Memorial Bldg., 80 No. Main Salt Lake City L. D. S. Business College ENTER ANY MONDAY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Nature's Awakening By Julina B. Green There's a tinge in the air of springtime, and hark! I hear in the distance the blackbird and lark. And dear robin red breast is chirping his call To his lady love perched in the apple tree tall. The crocus with sunshine is sprinkling the hills. And watercress grows 'neath the banks of the rills. The baby grass timidly peeps from the ground To make sure that Jack Frost is nowhere around. The buds in the tree tops grow bigger each day, So sweet leafy springtime is not far away. An occasional scouting bee buzzes near by And white fleecy clouds bedot the blue sky. The willows are showing a shading of green, And frisking o'er meadows white lambkins are seen. The woodpecker's drumming I hear on a tree, Summer quarters he's hunting for his bride to-be. The ant and the beetle their work have begun, While saucy gray squirrels play tag in the sun. All nature is waking to new life, 'tis clear. O, sweet balmy springtime already is here, Pictorial California. ALMOND BLOSSOMS THE Relief Society Magazine VOL, XIX APRIL, 1932 No. 4 The Door Mat By Ivy Williams Stone It was nine-thirty on Saturday night before Olive Campbell had a chance to drop into a living room rocker. Even then, she could not reach for the new magazine which, still unopened, lay enticingly near, Instead she shoved her hand into the mending basket. Socks, socks, socks! Nothing but darning when one rested. She plied her needle savagely, straining one ear for hints on the progress of the twins' bath; straining the other to learn if Ardea was really getting the baby to sleep. Ned, lounging comfortably in the big upholstered chair, threw the evening paper aside and reached for the coveted magazine. "Should have thought you'd have read this when it first came," he commented, tearing the wrapper which Olive's fingers itched to remove. "It's the one you like best. Full of good stories too." He settled back comfortably and was immediately engrossed in the first enticing page. Olive continued to darn. Baby Helen's white silks for Sunday needed especial care. A tiny run showed on one. Ardea's oxfords must be defective?her heels were woefully ragged. And the twins' stockings were kneeless, Olive dug farther into the basket for the heavy, thick thread?the cotton which worked up faster. Echoes of moist conflict came from the bathroom. "I dare you!" Harold's shrill treble floated out. "I just dare you." And Ken's deeper, superior tones. "Well, supposin' I dared to? What'll you do? I'm strongest!" Olive puckered her brow. Would they never learn their English? Why did they quarrel and argue? Quick to rise to each other's defense where others were concerned, they battled endlessly in private. From the adjoining room Ardea's voice came petulantly irritated. Too irritated, too high strung, Olive knew, for a girl of thirteen. "Mama, she just won't go to sleep. She's fed and bathed and warm, and her eyelids are too heavy for words, She knows I want to finish my book, that's why!" "Say, Mother," Ned looked up casually, keeping a finger to mark his place, "I'm thinking of building a service station to lease. That corner lot's stood vacant long enough. A new company's coming here, and they've made me an offer." "For how long?" Olives' quick 200 brain had a business turn which Ned liked to humor. "Oh, about seventy-five dollars per month for five years. How's that?some velvet, eh?" A sound of splashing water interrupted further financial discussion. A defiant laugh, a slammed door, quickly followed by wails from baby Helen and angry protests from Ardea. "Mama, how do you expect me to coax a baby to sleep while those two boisterous, obstreperous, ill-mannered, noisy turbulent boys persist in quarreling? I was just slipping out, and now she's wide awake again! They're just a pair of boisterous, tumultuous, refractory boys, that's all they are! Ned grinned and rubbed his head. "Seems as though Ardea's vocabulary is sort of enlarging," he muttered. "He dared me!" defended Ken. "And I threw water back!" retorted Harold. Two grinning, dripping boys, shining from recent soap, tiptoed into the living room. Ned surveyed them with fatherly pride. "It's a pleasure to see you spotlessly clean, if only on Saturday night," he added. "Better run along to bed now, so as you'll be up early for Sunday School, Ardea, I'll manage that baby. Here Mother, put up your darning and read this article about a woman seeing New York City in seven days." "I can't put it up! I have to finish!" flashed Olive in much the same tone Ardea had admonished the boys. "They need these stockings for tomorrow. And the heels in your gray silks are threadbare." "Aw shucks," replied Ned, who was ever unruffled, "there'll be socks to darn when you're gone. This is a good article. A married woman? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mother of a family too?took time off to do New York City. She saw everything worth looking at, and did it in seven days too. I'll bet she got enough for her story to pay for her trip. Maybe you'd better try something like that. Olive laughed harshly as she rolled up the last pair of re-kneed stockings and reached for the weakening silks, "Small chance for me to go anywhere," she retorted, "I'm only a door mat. All I do is wash and iron, cook and scrub, clean and mend. My life is just an endless circle of home tasks, I've always wanted to travel, but my journeys are limited to the meat market and the grocery store, with trips to the dentist for diversion." She gave her needle a vicious jab into the innocent sock. Ned looked concerned. Olive's tight lips and drawn features revealed taut nerves. Perhaps she was near a breakdown. Sometimes women got that way from staying too close with their babies. "If I build this station maybe we can save the rent and go somewhere next summer," he suggested. Olive's derisive laugh told all too plainly that perhaps next summer would be too late. "I have to re-mop that bathroom, and lay out their Sunday clothes, and set the oatmeal to soak and fix Helen's midnight bottle, and then I'll come to bed!" When Ned came home Monday evening he carried a shiny new suitcase and traveling bag. These he set in the middle of the parlor floor, drew a long pink railroad ticket from his pocket, and spread it over the bags. Then he added a folder of traveler's checks and stepping backwards, announced to the assembled, curious family: "These are the humble servants THE DOOR MAT that will assist Mrs. Ned Campbell to see New York City in ten days!" "What do you mean, Papa?' cried Ardea, her thin little face animated with expectancy.. "Are you really sending our beloved, adored, respected, charming Mama away?" "I think Mrs. N. R. Campbell would look better on the tag," added Ned. "More dignified," he made an exaggerated bow. "Before noon on Friday you will be eating on the diner, somewhere near Council Bluffs, Iowa! Your Aunt Henrietta will be your traveling companion?she's been aching to go, but dared not venture alone!" "O you lovable, impractical man," gasped Olive, "I can't go!" "But you nervous, overworked, stay-at-home, domestic, harassed, door-mat of a lady, you are going," retorted Ned Campbell, "in spite of all the objections you can think of. Your Aunt Henrietta is packing her bags right this minute." "But the babies?your food?" "My Cousin Blanche Horton is coming to keep house while you're gone. Having reared ten children, she knows two and one-half times as much as you do about all things domestic." "But I have no traveling clothes." "Buy 'em. There,' smiled Ned. "Then you'll be an object of envy in this town for a year. Take your bags empty and bring 'em back full." "My grape jelly?" faltered Olive. "Cousin Blanche's grape jelly took the prize last year." "I haven't washed the blankets." "I'll send them to the laundry. They do them nicer, anyhow." "The boys need sleepers and Ardea's serge is only half finished." "Send things home to them. They say the things in the second basements of those big department stores are lots cheaper than the same stuff 201 on the upper floors. Love!" "O Mother," Ardea's peaked little features became almost beautiful, "I'll help. I'll tend Helen after school and iron at night. It will be wonderful! You can climb the Statue of Liberty and gaze out over the vast, tranquil expanse of water like Balboa? "He was looking at the Pacific, Sis. Where's your geography?" scoffed Harold. "Well, water is water, and oceans are oceans," answered Ardea in a superior tone. "The children might get sick," Olive was weakening, but reluctant. "A boy in Ken's room had a fever the other day." "There's a doctor on this very block." Ned seemed primed to refute all her protests. "Your ticket is bought. That folder represents three hundred dollars. Your sleeper is reserved and paid for. If you think you are so important that your family can't live without you for a while?it's time you learned something." "But the money?" "Oh, I decided not to build that station right now. Times are uncertain,' answered Ned easily. "Cousin Blanche is coming in the morning to sort of get the ropes. She'll straighten these kids out while you're gone. Train leaves Wednesday at two. That's that." "Mother," Ken came and stood before her and pointed a grimy finger for emphasis, "Mother, I want you to be able to tell me about the color of the big horse in that picture called 'The Horse Fair.' Some say it's pure white?some say it's dapple grey. You make sure." "And I want to know the size of the ear and the eye in that Goddess of Liberty," added Harold. "Our geography book says her nose is four feet long and her waist thirty-five feet thick. I'd call her some lady!" "I'd love to go with you to Tiffany's," sighed Ardea, "They have the loveliest chased gold, and wrought silver and first water diamonds; and every other person is a policeman!" "Me go?me go!" added baby Helen and Olive, glad for this timely diversion, clutched her baby and carried her off to bed. There followed two days of hectic, whirlwind preparation. Cousin Blanche, lean and rather dyspeptic, looked askance at the electric stove and frankly stated that they ate queerly. She insisted that the children go to bed earlier, speak only when spoken to, and commented on the absence of "Yesmams" and "Nomams" in the vocabulary of modern children. Olive, alternately packing her bags and issuing instructions and explanations, moved as if in a trance. She showed Cousin Blanche where to find the woolens if it turned cold; where to find the syrup of ipecac if one of them got croup; where to find patching material for the boys' trousers, She admonished the boys to wear knee pads when playing marbles; to wash their ears with soap; to clean their teeth at night. Ned smiled and agreed to do all the multitudinous things she requested. Yes, he would not forget his pills; he would cover the chrysanthemums if a frost threatened; he would not buy candy; he would sweeten their cereals with honey instead of sugar; he would see that Harold ate his vegetables before his dessert. At last she was off, looking tiny and slender beside Aunt Henrietta's plumpness. Baby Helen, uncomprehending, clutched her father's neck as the train whistled; the boys RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE were voluntarily neat and clean; Ardea held a handkerchief over her quivering lips. "Stay until your money is gone," whispered Ned, giving her a final squeeze, "and telegraph for more if you need it." The train whistled again; the wheels creaked in that pleasant suggestion of motion, and Olive Campbell breathed deeply of the cinder laden air. The four people on the platform waved vehemently. Olive, leaning from the window called frantically, "Ned, O Ned, be sure to give Helen lime water twice a week!" A last glimpse of blurred hands and she was off; a door-mat no longer! "My gracious Olive," commented Aunt Henrietta, "You're some thin. Sleeping with you will be like having the berth to myself. And only half the price too. If nobody takes the upper, we can have the section to ourselves?good as a state room. I'll be glad when they call dinner!" She rambled on, expecting no answer. She hoped they could remove the cinder screen at night; hoped the porter was good natured; hoped no cross baby came to their car. She recalled her honeymoon to Niagara with New York reserved for a later trip. "But we never got there," she mused, "Henry died so sudden like. And when the war came and my boy went to France, I wanted to go with him as far as New York, but they didn't want mothers along. Now he's in South America, and maybe you and I can run over to France and see them battlefields where he fought." Olive heard the droning, patient voice, but. Did not register the thought. "Click?click?click?free ?free?free!" was the song she. Gathered from the car wheels. Over the flat cornfields of Nebraska, with the drab, unlovely houses, into Omaha; the roily waters of the Missouri, through pleasant, undulating farms of Iowa; through Illinois and Ohio, replete with Civil War monuments; glimpses of Lake Michigan and Lake Erie; through the steel and coal districts of Pennsylvania, and then on to the goal of her dreams, New York! Its waterfront sky line; its conglomerate races; its extremes of rich and poor were revelations to this woman of the free, democratic west. The nights were too long, the days too short to satisfy her avid eagerness. From Washington Square to Grant's tomb, atop the Fifth Avenue busses was a daily ride; the smart little shops were a morning delight. Brooklyn Bridge, now condemned to autos, represented a pioneering feat in engineering; her alert mind tried to figure how the price of President Grant's elaborate tomb would improve conditions for the ragged, neglected children of the Bowery. The over-old, scheming faces of the tenement children, the searching, restless: eyes of the street vendors, the struggle for existence, the inexorable law that each member of a household contribute to its upkeep, regardless of age or youth, all were revelations of astonishment to Olive, who had never known want. The Bowery, with its teeming humanity; Central Park, with its idle, surfeited rich. Tiffany's, with exclusiveness stamped on the faces of its liveried doormen; the five and ten cent stores with their jostling crowds. The Metropolitan Art Institute with its treasures of art, and certain proof of the color of the Bonheur horses. The Hall of Fame, whose first requirement for recognition was death ten years previous.. The towering buildings which made Wall Street a veritable canyon; the church where George Washington had worshipped; the Little-Church-Around-the Corner; the Statue of Liberty; the Aquarium; the old tombstones around Trinity Church; the Grand Central, all fed her insatiable desire to crowd knowledge into a brief space of time. At first Aunt Henrietta, perspiring and red of face, followed docilely. Then she gently complained of blistered feet, of unsatisfactory food, of bodily weariness. But Olive surged on. She ate of necessity, begrudging the wasted time. She slept only to start afresh another day. From subways to the elevated, from Battery to the north of the island, she hurried, listened and looked. She watched customs inspectors; saw ships dump their immigrants at Ellis Island; penetrated to the second basements of the department stores, and learned to a certainty that the Statue of Liberty's mouth was three feet wide and her index finger eight feet long. "That Hall of Fame is a queer place," complained Aunt Henrietta. "You have to be dead ten years before they'll hang your picture?" "Tablet, Aunt," contradicted Olive. "A bronze tablet with your name." "Well, tablet then. What's that, when you're dead? I'd rather have a square meal and a cool bed and some quiet, and clean air to breathe.". "Think of the honor?" "Think of the comfort," expostulated Aunt Henrietta, slipping off her shoes. "My feet are blistered so badly I don't care who painted "The Noble Slav," or whether the tomb of Perneb is genuine or not. Let's get some steamship folders and plan a run over to France. We could rest a whole week on the boat." "We're going back to the Statue of Liberty in the morning," explained Olive. "I really forgot to 204 make a notation of the size of the eye. I promised Harold." Aunt Henrietta raised her swollen feet to the bed and looked her severest. "Olive Campbell," she retorted, "you can wear yourself out chasing this town into a condensed encyclopedia, but you leave me out. That elevator was broken three days ago, and I won't climb to the top of that brass woman again. Her eyes are big enough to look through and that's enough. I'm going to get ship circulars and rest while I read them. I'd just as soon run over to the battlefields of France. Henry fought at Ypres and the Argonne. I want to see that old French peasant woman who was so good to him when he was wounded." "I haven't seen Cleopatra's Needle yet, nor the Bronx Park, nor taken the boat trip around the island," Olive consulted her guide book while Aunt Henrietta rubbed witch hazel on her protesting feet. "We have to reserve one night for Grand Opera. And I have to go back to St. Paul's Church again. I can't remember the color of the kneeling cushions in Washington's pew." "Too bad they tore down the Hippodrome," mused Aunt Henrietta. "Henry said it was wonderful. They had a lake on the stage, and five balconies. He. Said the building trembled when the audiences sang." "Another day on the bus, the Woolworth Tower and a day at Governor's Island. There's the Museum of Natural History, and I still have all my shopping, O dear Aunt Henrietta, hurry up with your feet. Soak them in good hot water and use lots of powder. We simply can't waste time being sick in New York. I'll get the mail and you be ready when I return." The "C" lines of the General Delivery post office was long, and Olive RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fretted inwardly over the delay: A woman stood behind her carrying a child near Helen's age. A persistent, choky lump rose in her throat as the baby pounded her shoulder and demanded attention. ' The forced leisure gave her time to think of home. 'Was Cousin Blanche really patient, did that boy in Ken's room have contagion? Perhaps Helen would cut molars? Was it cold out home? Ardea might drop the flatiron, or worse still, leave it on and burn up the house. Perhaps Cousin Blanche's boasted grape jelly wouldn't jell?perhaps?perhaps? "Name," reminded the brisk tones of the postal clerk, and Olive's hand clutched over a bulky letter from home. From Ned's optimistic account the family was doing better without her vigilant care. Everyone was well; kiddies in school, Helen eating and sleeping fine. "Everything Jake," concluded Ned slangily and a trifle too optimistic; but he failed to mention Cousin Blanche. "She's just a door mat like I was," thought Olive, and opened Ken's letter?a literary masterpiece of ink on newsprint. "I got "A" in arithmetic but "C" in personal hygiene,' he admitted honestly. "Seems like I can't get my ears clean. How about that horse? I hope you measured that Goddess," he persisted. "I hope you have lots of pie to eat. I like pie. Cousin Blanche did not make pie." At the last came an outline of baby Helen's hand, plump and chubby with the little finger blurred where she had wiggled. Dim eyed but smiling, Olive hurried out. Poor old Aunt Henrietta. Olive felt a sudden compassion for this older, lonely woman, trying to get solace from visiting the places where her son had gone before. No letter for her from the far distant Henry. No baby awaiting her at home. Only sore feet and memories. Hurrying along Broadway, clutching her letter, planning the next day's visits, Olive came to a news stand. Nothing extraordinary about news stands. But this one displayed a large sign which read: "If your home town publishes a newspaper, we have it." A sudden wave of home sickness swept over Olive, who had desired to be free. More than grand opera or seeing Cleopatra's Needle, she wanted news from home. She didn't care a particle about the color of St. Paul's cushions nor the dimensions of the Goddess of Liberty. She wanted news from Nyton. She wanted to know if there had been a frost; who won the prizes at the local fair; if an epidemic had broken out in the schools, and the price of butter in Forrester's market. Paying several times its original price, unmindful that the date was five days past, Olive tucked this additional treasure under her arm and hurried on to Aunt Henrietta. "I've a home letter and a home paper,' and shrank from the look of hope that had lighted the old eyes. Why didn't Henry write to his aged Mother?. "Hurry with your feet, Auntie, and I'll read to you while you get ready. We're doing grand opera tonight if I can get the tickets. Aunt Henrietta's feet reposed in a huge basin of hot water, while various packages of cures stood on a nearby chair. The bed was littered with the alluring, picturesque folders of steamship companies. "I've got boric acid, epsom salts and witch hazel, and I put 'em all in together. I ought to get results. Smells so, anyway. I don't know whether to go to France by way of London and cross the channel, or to order our passage straight to Bordeaux. I'd like to see the Tower of London. A long time ago they smothered two little princes there with a feather bed." "They're putting the whole town on water meters, "from the depth of the paper Olive issued terse items of interest. Cousin Blanche' s grape jelly only got second prize.' "I'd like to see Monte Carlo, ' mused Aunt Henrietta. '"They have what they call "Suicidal Gardens" there. For the benefit of people who lose all they had and want to die." "There's been a hoar frost. It caught the late tomatoes. I hope Ned remembered to cover the chrysanthemums." Aunt Henrietta added more powders and reached for more folders. "We could go by way of Scotland for sixty dollars extra. I'd sort of like to see the home of Bobby Burns." Suddenly Olive gasped and uttered a little cry?sharp, indrawn, like one of pain. "There's diphtheria in Nyton! The sanitary office fears an epidemic. They might close the schools. I knew I had no business to come! That boy in Ken's room had a fever when I left. Do you know what diphtheria is? Do you know what it does? It makes a white membrane on the palate and chokes innocent, helpless children to death!" Olive stood before Aunt Henrietta accusingly, her thin, nervous body in sharp contrast to the older woman's ample proportions. 205 "You can go to Monte Carlo, or the battlefields of France, all you please.' I'm going home!" "Now, now then; Ned would wire if there was any trouble,' began Aunt Henrietta soothingly. "I can't go anywhere except on a boat to rest!" "They're sick, I tell you!" cried Olive, almost hysterical. "Ken always catches everything. He brought home measles, mumps, and chicken pox and whooping cough, and now this terrible malady. I'm going home on the first and fastest train I can catch!" She rushed to the phone, learned train departures, ordered a berth, called the clerk to get her a taxi, and to send her bill. With a haste and precision that made Aunt Henrietta gasp in astonishment she packed her accumulated wardrobe and gifts into the bags that had so lately come light. "Now Olive, we have to go to France. It will cost so little," began Aunt Henrietta feebly. "You'll never have another such chance. I can't go home with you right now. My feet?" "Stay as long as you like," Olive spoke in sweet, icy tones. "If we were on the boat I'd swim back. Goodbye, Auntie. I hope your feet get better. I'm due at the Grand Central in fifteen minutes!" "Click-click-click ? diphtheria:! Click-click-click?white membrane!" Olive's distorted brain beat a rhythm to the car wheels. She did not try to see Lake Michigan. The rolling hills of Iowa seemed endless; the flats of Nebraska seemed to mock her with dismal fields of frozen cornstalks. She did not feel the spirit of the wide, open spaces of Wyoming. She was oblivious to the clear, cool air of the mountains. In silent necessity she ate the food set before her. While she looked at her fellow passengers, she did not really see them. Beyond them she saw four fevered, restless children, with Ned distractedly dividing his time between them. One kind old lady whispered, "She must have a loved one back in the baggage car, she looks so sad." When the train finally reached Nyton at six in the morning Olive RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rushed out, as if expecting to battle her way to a taxi. How quiet and still the town seemed. How wide and deserted the streets. No elevated trains, no traffic jams, no sharp whistles, no hurrying crowds made of tense, impersonal faces. Only old Asa Keyes with his green taxi, waiting for a chance salesman. "Well, Mis' Campbell! If we ain't surprised! Ned wasn't expecting you so soon. Saw him last night in the drugstore. How's New York? You'll be puttin' on airs now, I reckon. Sure, I'll take you home. You can cook their breakfast if you ain't too high toned!" "How are all the people?" Olive did hope her voice was not overanxious. What had taken Ned to the drug store? Anti-toxin? "Everybody in this town is one hundred per cent well," boasted Asa, assuming the prepared speech he used on tourists. "No sickness. Fine air. Perfect water. Happy children; contented parents. Clean natural milk?" "No epidemics?" Olive fancied there was a quiver in her voice. Asa laughed comfortably and refused to pull out for a honking milk truck. "There's a new kid on The Chronicle, and he tried to make a hit, telling about diphtheria out among them migratory Italians that pick tomatoes. One of their children's throats got all swelled over, and folks thought it was diphtheria. Proved to be a piece of toothpick that stuck in his tonsil. No you don't pay me, Mis' Campbell. I'll drop in some night and hear 'bout New York." Olive felt faint with relief. No choking, terrible malady to blot out the lives of her beloved. Seven o'clock. They would just be getting up. How dear the home seemed. A lawn for the children, a luxury unknown to most New York THE DOOR MAT children. A back field, where the boys could play football in safety. No constant, nerve-wracking noises; clean, unpolluted air, Burlap sacks proclaimed that Ned had looked after the chrysanthemums. On the porch were the four bottles of milk, but a terse note told a story: "If you don't have bottles out tomorrow you don't get no milk." Olive tiptoed in through the unlatched door. The living room held a faint, odorous smoke. The dining table held a litter of withered flowers, books, newspapers, a half emptied bottle of milk, the baby's doll and the beloved football in a state of collapse. From the kitchen came the sound of voices and confused haste and the mother, who had felt herself abused, looked in upon a scene that remained in her memory forever. Ned was frying pancakes, and even the batter that dripped from the pan and onto his clothes, looked greasy. Baby Helen, her bare feet extended to the fire, was devouring a huge wedge of the undercooked dough. The sink was so overcrowded with unwashed dishes that a dishpan held the overflow. The. Table did not even boast a cloth. The boys were clad in black sateen shirts and striped overalls?institutional garb. Where were their neat trousers which had filled her with pride, and their white blouses? Ardea was packing her lunch? bakery doughnuts and a hard apple ?and rolling them in newspaper. No oiled paper. No neat paper bag. No little surprise of appetizing food ?how many thousand germs could cling to one square inch of newsprint? They all looked older and more self-reliant, but woefully neglected and forlorn. Ardea was not wearing any serge dress which Cousin Blanche had promised to finish, and the baby's feet seemed to 207 be bare because no shoes were visible. Ned looked like a door mat that had been in use for a century. Baby Helen saw her mother and screamed in fright. It hurt Olive like a sharp knife to have her baby shrink away from her. Then with one concerted cry, they were upon her. The look of baffled worry left Ned's face?Ardea abandoned her doughnuts and apple, and they rolled under the table. Harold dropped the milk bottle, from which he had been drinking in lieu of a glass, and Ken tipped over his chair. Ned poured all the remaining batter into the griddle from where it overflowed and burned to a crisp, unheeded. They took her hat and gloves and purse; they all talked at once; they asked questions and more questions, without waiting for replies. From the security of her father's shoulder Baby Helen peeked cautiously at this new stranger. "Ken are you sure your throat is not sore?" 'Mama was that horse really white?" 'Where is Cousin Blanche?" "Has that Goddess got four foot ears?" "Ned, why are you wearing one tan sock and one blue one?" Mama, do Tiffany's have their name on their windows?" "Papa can't cook anything but pancakes, so we have ice cream twice a day!" "We don't bother to wash clothes?when they get dirty we buy new ones." "Cousin Blanche 'went home because we forgot to say 'Yes Mam,' and cause we didn't like onions." Suddenly Olive understood what it means to be a mother. Needed. Necessary for their very life, Essential for their health. She had only been gone seventeen days and already the home and their clothes and their food looked like they had been motherless for a small eternity. "Cousin Blanche said our modern method of rearing children was just 208 too disrespectful for words," grinned Ned, "so I've played double parent ever since." "And you've been alone? Who washed and ironed and cooked and sewed?" Even as she spoke she realized that these questions answered themselves. There had been no washing, no ironing, no cooking, and no sewing. Not even socks had been darned, as Ned's exposed heels plainly indicated. "If you had wired I'd have come instantly. I read in The Chronicle that there was an epidemic of diphtheria so I came." "That fool reporter," grinned Ned. "Guess I'll have to treat him for getting you home. I know what it means to be a door mat myself. Gosh, but growing kiddies sure can eat!" Olive felt a surging thrill of necessity pass over her. Here was her place. She wanted to clean that sink more than to motor through the new Hudson Tube. It would be more pleasure to feed cereal to Helen than to study the sculpture of Rodin in the art gallery. For two days she worked at top speed. The refrigerator held samples of every dish they had eaten until its doors refused to close. Dabs of butter were making friends with the remnants of Cousin Blanche's onions. Milk bottles had overflowed until a granite tub on the porch held a small dairy. The clothes hamper was invisible. Pancakes and ice cream. How had they lived! Ken's ears plainly showed that he deserved his grade in personal hygiene. The overalls had been provided to conceal the entire absence of knees in their hose. Small dabs of the prize jelly still clung to the kitchen floor. What a privilege to have a family to work for. How glorious to live in the free, kindly west and own your own home and have a constant grinned "Guess I'll have to treat him ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sense of security and peace. On the second day Ned came home smiling like a boy. "Guess I'll build that gas station after all. They've offered ninety dollars a month rent now. They sure want a corner location. So you see your going increased the rental considerably. It was a good thing I waited. Gosh, it seems good to have you home." He glanced apprehensively toward the sink and a little pucker cleared from his brow at its shiny emptiness. "I could buy new clothes and ice cream, but somehow, I never seemed to get ahead on the dishes. That soup smells good." "Vegetable soup, spinach and baked apples!" chanted Olive happily. "And while we eat I'll show Ken the picture of the 'Horse Fair' in colors and I have one of the Goddess for Harold. But the whole of New York, from the Hall of Fame to the Battery and from the Hudson Tube to Brooklyn isn't worth one square inch of Nyton!" With much screeching of brakes Asa Keyes stopped his green taxi at the front gate. He climbed down and carefully helped a plump lady to the curb and followed her limping gait with her numerous bags. "Why Aunt Henrietta, cried Olive in amazement. "I thought you had gone on to London and Scotland and France!" "Ned," ordered Aunt Henrietta, "get me a chair and a basin of hot water. And Olive, if you'll open that smallest suit case, you can find my boric acid and witch hazel and epsom salts. It took me a day to pack, and a day to get a berth, and it'll take a month to get my feet well. Ned, she almost called your bluff about running over to France. For a while I thought she was really going to drag me over there!" "It's not so bad, being a door mat," added Olive. The Russian Religious Question By Thomas L. Martin Reports in many of the current newspapers and religious pamphlets, made by various people on the religious situation in Russia, indicate a wide diversity of opinion. Some comments are favorable to the Russian people, while many of them describe in great detail the awful condition which prevails there. One hears that the churches are destroyed, that priests are persecuted and often times slain, that religious services are forbidden, and that those who persist in their religious devotion find it very inconvenient to associate in one's own: community as a penalty for that devotion. Because the writer, fairly recently, has had a short firsthand acquaintance with the Soviet Republic, he ventures to add one more opinion to this much discussed question of religion in Russia. It is well to realize that the Russian people have suffered considerably in the past. Many years ago Peter the Great made himself the head of the church. He was the master and with the power at his command, he exercised an authority such that no one dare disobey him, no matter how right nor how wrong he was in his activities, religious and otherwise. The royal court was steeped in corruption. The Czars who followed were not above suspicion, and slowly the system which developed under the Czaristic regime, carried its corruption into the nobility, and other classes, until political and social disintegration reached dangerous points. The church was made subservient to the Czar. The church must obey the dictates of the Czars. It was a high virtue to obey. The burdens under which the Russian people have been called upon to labor were steadily increased and when the people sought the priest for help, they were not satisfied. They were told that it was sin to criticize the Czar. When tendencies to revolt appeared, the people were told that they would be doomed to eternal perdition. Because of such attitudes. The confessional was used to ferret out those who showed revolutionary tendencies. A revolt occurred in 1905; but it failed. During the years 1905-17 the priests called upon all good Christians never to take up arms against the government, because such actions were acts of Satan and the doers would be condemned to hell fire in a future life. A revolution occurred in 1917 and the warnings by the priests were repeated and intensified. Generals masqueraded as priests among the people. The church buildings and the priests were made the rallying centers for counter revolutionary movements. However, the revolutionists won out. One would naturally expect that the revolutionary leaders after their victory would not be any too friendly to the orthodox church, which church had been its bitter enemy. The revolutionists were not friendly. For some time afterward the church and its influence. Was directed against the revolutionary party in power. A. State of war was practically in existence. Would not the priests be treated as anti-revolutionists and be handled accordingly? One would expect this and this is 210 what actually happened. The priests who opposed them were treated mercilessly. This only happened, however, while the country was slowly adjusting itself to a peaceful footing. Afterwards religious tolerance did show itself in some degree. Much of the above information is obtainable at the anti-religion museum at Moscow. In photograph, in manuscripts and in other material exhibits information is given to the visitor which indicated some of the religious and political experiences of the Russian people previous to and during the revolution. Of course that which favors anti-religious sentiment is emphasized in this museum, yet one feels that all has not been well in Russia religiously. The Greek Catholic Church was the predominating religious influence in Russia, one is told. The relations between the people and the church officials were not pleasant. A visitor is led to believe, as he talks with the men there, that really the great quarrel is with the Greek Catholic Church and not with religion. It is with the God they have grown to conceive during their many years of turmoil that they would eliminate and not the God the majority of us worship. The unpleasant experiences of the Russians with the opposition tendencies of the orthodox church have contributed to the decision of the government and many of the people to throw over religion in its entirety. The environment has become a very fertile field for the Society of the Godless. The government authorities have not discouraged them, in their activities, in fact, they have rather encouraged them, if one is correctly informed. The governmental work, economic, social and otherwise, has been adjusted to the idea that religion is not even to be considered. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE On the outside of Russia, conditions such as those mentioned give rise to certain types of ideas. Suppose one were to throw oneself into such a situation and imagine what one would do under the circumstances. With such a mental attitude, one judges everything that comes out of Russia. Such judgments may be faulty. The writer sometimes wonders if the vast majority of the religious information about Russia which has been consumed by the public has not been tinged by such attitudes above mentioned. It was the writer's privilege one year ago to watch people attend church and also visit a number of church buildings in Leningrad. Nothing unusual seemed to be associated with church going. The writer attended church in Moscow. It was all a matter of course. No one seemed to notice anything unusual about attending church. Even a foreigner was not noticed. It was all in the day's program so far as the Russian passers-by were concerned. One could readily judge that church attendance was not associated with dire forebodings, as one would naturally imagine after reading the daily newspapers published outside of Russia. On page 38 of the April number of the "Friend of Missions," a religious magazine published in England and distributed quite extensively among religious denominations in the United States, one reads the following: "A communication in World Dominion quotes the Atheist of Moscow to the effect that in several Moscow schools the Communist teachers instruct the children to spy out and report on those visiting churches to pray. The children are to make daily reports. The same paper announces with satisfaction that the children have not even spared their RUSSIAN RELIGIOUS QUESTION own parents and have also entered on their lists the names of little girls in their own schools, These young spies are rewarded with book prizes and receive official congratulations from the authorities." The authentic information available about Russia causes one to question the truthfulness of this account. In the same magazine on page 39 one reads an article under the title "The Silver Lining." "The brighter side of the Russian religious situation is reported by the Rev. John Johnson who has recently returned from Russia. He tells us that he was present sixteen times at the meetings of Evangelical Christians in Leningrad and Moscow, himself preaching eight times. I have come to the conclusion that the Russian people have a great thirst for the Word of God and faith in Him. At one of the conferences in Leningrad the communion was celebrated, so large was the number of believers attending that a loaf of ten pounds and sixteen quarts of wine were used. At the Easter celebration in the Evangelical Church there were 1,700 people although the hall seats but 1,000. "While the street processions and meetings of the militant atheists in Moscow were small, ugly, and miserable, in the Church of the Savior, Moscow, on Easter Day fifteen thousand people gathered and some twenty-five clergy officiated at the services." William Henry Chamberlain, a recent visitor and student of Russian affairs, writes in his book, "Soviet Russia," concerning the religious situation. He intimates that there is a lot of anti-religious propaganda in Russia but the whole religious situation is not as severe as is commonly understood. He says "After a fair amount of travel in Russian peasant districts I am convinced that 211 the proposed and overwhelming devotion to Orthodoxy attributed to the Russian peasant by some pre-war investigators, was either greatly exaggerated or has diminished almost to the vanishing point since the Revolution. Although there is little anti-religious propaganda among the peasants, I did not find a single peasant priest who did not admit a falling off in church attendance, especially among the youth, and who did not regard the future very pessimistically. True, the old customs of church weddings, burials, and christenings persist, but more from habit than from any accompanying sense of deep religious conviction. I was in a Don Cossack village (the last place where one would find active sympathy and the communist ideas on religion or anything else) on a religious holiday and found most of the male population standing about on the village green and debating the division of the village hay, quite oblivious of the church bells which were calling them to service. It is a curious and yet psychologically, not incomprehensible fact, that in the cities where anti-religious propaganda is much more widespread, the churches, as a rule, seem to be better attended." William Henry Chamberlain further states that there is a steady growth of sectarianism especially Baptists and Evangelical Christians. There are about a million registered members of sects. Counting families and sympathizers there are several millions in the habit of attending sectarian services. The members are allowed only to practice their religious cult in the churches. They cannot teach groups. These sectarian groups have 400 chapels of their own, 800 leased and 3,800 places of worship in private quarters. Many of the churches are turned 212 into clubs, schools and other public buildings. Mr. Chamberlain states that during 1927 there were 17 churches, 34 monasteries, 14 synagogues and 9 mosques turned into other uses than for church services. This number was increased considerably during 1928. There has been a steady increase each year since. The closings are not supposed to occur only when local people express their will on the question. The Union of the Godless are trying to persuade all the people to close their churches. They show among the peasants that thunder and lightning and hail are not supernatural and mysterious phenomena. These members of the Godless Union cultivate their gardens and attempt to show that good crops come not by prayer, but by observing the rules of scientific agriculture. The atheistic society is encouraged by the governmental agencies, but it is doubtful if that encouragement goes to the length that punishment is meted out to those who worship without breaking the laws of the land. The people do find trouble in their attempts to lease buildings. There is evidence that some religious members are disfranchised. There may be a justification and there may not be one. There are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE theological seminaries in Leningrad and Moscow, and there is some publishing of religious pamphlets. It is really difficult for one to pass an opinion on this Russian question. The writer does so, however, realizing that one may stay there a few weeks, months or years, yet not know the Russian people. One must learn the language, one must know the Russian soul before one can talk with authority on this great question of Russia and the religious situation. On short acquaintance one feels that the Russian is kind and courteous. One also feels that the Russian will cling to the religious element of human life. One feels that the Society of the Godless, even though encouraged by the governmental powers, will never eliminate from the Russian his religious tendencies. When the stress of war and the revolution, and the strain that is manifest as a result of the desire on the part of the Russians to become self supporting has ceased, there will be less opposition from the outside world. Then one may see the Russian as he is, and it is not unlikely that one will find that he has clung, in spite of every other idea to the contrary, to the fundamentals of a religious life. Historic Markers By Dr. George W. Middleton Poems the beginning of our government it was the manifest destiny of the United States to reach from ocean to ocean. The thirteen colonies which made up the original states, were but a fringe on the eastern seaboard, with an indefinite undefined western extension. But early in our career as a nation President Jefferson purchased Louisiana from France, and sent the Lewis and Clark expedition into the northwest to establish our right to that great unexplored domain watered by the Missouri flowing eastward, and the Columbia flowing westward. Incidentally, in the war settlement with Mexico, another big bloc came under our national domain, and we occupied all the territory from ocean to ocean. For the first half century of our national life, colonization had reached no farther west than the Mississippi River. The vast domain stretching from the Father of waters to the Pacific was known as the Wilderness, and eminent men in our government thought it was of no possible value. "God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform." A short time ago the Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association met at Provo to unveil a marker to commemorate the advent of Father Escalante, probably the first white man to visit the future territory of Utah; and recently we unveiled a marker at Logan which commemorates the advent of the trappers. Intense religious zeal brought Father Escalante, and his compatriots to the wilderness of the west; and the lure of wealth brought the trappers. Each of these were trail blazers for the civilization which was to follow after them, and fill the wilderness with pleasant homes and spacious palaces. From the dawn of recorded history the center of gravity of civilization has been shifting toward the west. Oceans and continents have been its highways, and the centuries have been its stepping stones. Onward, forever onward it moves toward the setting sun. It is a matter of mathematical demonstration, that the center of gravity of the United States will continue to shift westward. | The European emigrant, out of a lifetime of frugality, accumulates enough money to bring himself over the ocean, and a measurable distance inland, and then he comes to the end of his tether when his money is all spent. Our eastern cities are thronged with foreigners, who have sought our shores in the hope of bettering their wordly condition. They have been recruited mostly from the peasant class of their respective countries. In the days of the great German Lloyd steamers I have stood in the docks of our eastern seaboard cities and seen these foreign peasants by the thousands disembark and disseminate themselves in various directions. If America has been slow in developing culture, it is in part due to the fact that she has had to absorb this great contingent of European peasantry, and incorporate them into her social system. They have diluted our American stock with foreign blood, and in many cases brought political ideas subversive of our American institutions. While they brought the numerical 214 strength that was needful to help develop our boundless domain, and have been for the most part industrious and honest, yet in our big eastern cities many of them have aggregated themselves together to foster European social ideals, and resist the reforms attempted by our government. Two thousand miles of continent, added to two thousand miles of ocean is the barrier that will prevent this dilution of American stock with foreign blood in our western states. Our Asiatic exclusion act will prevent an invasion from the west. It is plain to be seen then that, in the decades forward the 100% American will be found in this part which was designated as the Wilderness. The ideals of America will flourish best among thoroughbred Americans.! It is our destiny to be the beacon light upon the hilltop to hold up to the world's gaze the pure idealism of our great country. Much of the history of the west is dramatic and colorful. It was the boldest and the most enterprising individuals that dared to undertake the trek over the Great Plains, and the mighty mountain barriers of the west in the face of so many hostile. Forces. Religious zeal, the dream of wealth, and the hope of dominion were the forces which impelled them onward, but back of that was 'God, marking with the shores of two oceans, the destiny in geographic outlines of our great country. Our state of Utah was one of the most colorful of all the states in its pioneering history, and it is the purpose of the Pioneer Trails and 'Landmarks Association to see that it is second to none in the union in permanent markers that shall tell this dramatic story to the generations forward, and to the strangers within our gate. When that generation, which shall represent the most characteristic RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stock of Americans, arrives on the scene to claim their birthright, we want them to know the story of their genesis with historic accuracy. Already this duty has been too long neglected. Twenty-five years ago, when many of the original pioneers were yet alive, the location of historic points would have been much easier. Fortunately for us many of the pioneers kept accurate diaries. In spite of their precarious life they were methodical enough to commit to writing their experiences. Their artistic penmanship is a marvel to this typewriter generation, which has neglected to cultivate the art of fine chirography. The diary of Escalante is a classic, and the story of the original Mormon pioneers from the pen of 'Wilford Woodruff reads like a fairy tale. There are yet materials enough available to insure historic accuracy, and we aim at this above all things. We deem it no small privilege to be the instrumentality whereby the history of our state shall assume a tangible form, and be handed on to the ages forward. It is most gratifying to meet the responsive attitude of the citizens toward our efforts. The Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association of Utah is a subsidiary of the National Oregon Trail Association. Since our Dr. Howard Driggs, a Utah product, has become the president of the National Association, its preview has expanded to the recognition of all historic trails of the west, and a concerted effort is being made to have them all properly marked. We of the Utah Association are concerned particularly with the problem of our own state, as that is our specific duty. The national organization permitted us to use the specially minted coin as a means of financing HISTORIC MARKERS ourselves. Patriotic citizens have sold these coins and placed the proceeds to our credit at the banks. A fund of many thousand dollars is thus made available for the purchase of the markers. The communities where these markers have been placed have given splendid cooperation. They have as a rule provided the base, and joined forces with us in the ceremony of unveiling the markers. School children in Provo and Logan have financed the local propositions by their contributions. We are making our work non215 denominational and non-partisan. We are attempting to place these markers in chronological order at the points designated by our history committee. We wish to cooperate with all other agencies which have the same object in view. We believe in the validity of that scripture which says that they which are not against us are for us. We invite all good citizens to join in this commendable work to the end that our state shall be second to none other in the union in its historic markers. Fidelity You do not need me now, dear, For the skies are sunny and blue, ' And a smiling path leads all the way To the land where your dreams come true. But when the clouds hang low, dear, And your hopes in ashes lie; When you long for the clasp of a kindred hand, You will find me standing by. Edith E. Anderson. Rubens. LANDSCAPE WITH A SHEPHERD The Light Within A S1MPLE DEMONSTRATION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS By. Blanche Kendall McKey CHARACTERS President Alice Holmes. Mrs. Nora Anderson, who speaks some foreign dialect. Mrs. Mabel Raymond, an attractive, young-appearing woman. Soloist and her accompanist. Other ladies of the Relief Society. The scene discloses all of the characters?excepting the soloist and her accompanist, who are at the piano or organ?arranged in a circle, seated as if in meeting, with President Holmes the central figure at the back. Where there is no stage, the ladies merely take their places when their number comes, seating themselves according to the size and shape of the platform. The success of the playlet will depend largely upon the earnestness and spirituality of the actors. The president should be the dominating power, a forceful, spiritual leader.. Mrs. Anderson should be any member of the Ward who speaks somewhat broken English, adapting the words given her to her own way of expressing herself. Before the curtain is raised the soloist begins her song, "I Know That My Redeemer Liveth." At the close she and her accompanist seat themselves in the circle, and the president, who carries a bouquet of flowers, rises. President: JI know that my Redeemer liveth. I cannot let you go back to your homes without saying that. I have a light within my heart which leaps like a flame when I hear those beautiful words?"I know that my Redeemer liveth." I wish to thank you again for these lovely flowers and for the dear thoughtfulness which prompted you to bring them. I am getting to be an old lady, but this has been one of the happiest birthdays that I have ever known because of your love and confidence, and because of that light within, which seems to burn brighter as the years pass on. I have learned so many things in the long watches of my life! For one thing, I have learned that that light, when heeded, shows people the right thing to do, gives them a sixth sense by which they can understand hidden things. A story was told to me today by one of our members which brought tears to my eyes as it bore out so beautifully this point. (Looks at her watch.) It is closing time. Is there any matter which anyone would like to bring up?: Mrs. Anderson: Madam President. President: What is it, Nora? Mrs. Anderson: I know about that light you speak of?it teaches me much. But there is something which I wish to ask?a "favor" you say? eh? But I do not wish to deny that inspiration. The first hymn that I learn in English is this: "Lead Kindly Light." I sing it in my own country with your missionaries. (Somewhat falteringly she begins a line of the song, then continues fearlessly, singing a verse or two. At the close the ladies express their pleasure and sunrise.) THE LIGHT WITHIN 217 President: Why, Nora, I had no idea that you could sing so well. Mrs. Anderson: But I did not ask?what you call a favor?to try to sing.; But I was thinking of that light. Without denying it, may I go among the people of my block?see what they need, talk to them, but not try to teach the lessons? I feel too weak? ( President: Weak, with a light like yours to give you strength? Mrs. Anderson: I do not know your language?my words come wrong. President: The spirit of God does not need a language; it has one of its own. When I was young, like you, and starting out in this work, I too was afraid, although we had no lesson to give. I knew that I was sent into the homes to bless the people, and I feared that I would not be able to discern what they actually stood in need of. I prayed to my father for help. With Job I implored: "That which I see not, teach thou me." Mabel, will you tell us all the story you told me today? (Mabel Raymond, who is sitting in the circle facing the audience, rises.) Mrs. Raymond: I'm afraid I can't tell it very well. It is my mother's story. Mother came of a cultured, well-to-do family and married in her own class. She had a lovely home and was very happy. But she lost her first child, a beautiful boy, and she couldn't become reconciled. She could see no reason for his going, no justice in the Hand that took him. She was becoming bitter in her heart, and her home was losing its life, changing to a gloomy, unpleasant place. My father had greater faith than mother, but not knowing that it was a sense of injustice that was eating canker-like in her heart, he had been unable to comfort her. One day a Relief Society worker came into her home, all alone. It was, of course, years before we had the watchword "Peace be unto this house," but she brought it just the same. Peace came into that house, for the older woman saw what was wrong in mother's mind, and set it right. 'Who is man that he can question God, or judge for himself what is best?" she asked. Simply she showed her that sometimes our great sorrows are our greatest blessings. The sister perceived what none of mother's loved ones had done, and spoke the words that drove out resentment. And the wise, humble, dear worker was our beloved President. (She takes her seat and President Holmes rises.) President: Thank you, Mabel. And I thank God for that light within which gave me the right words to speak. Poverty is so easily discerned, but the cravings of the heart are hidden. And that is why we must give these lessons (picks up magazine), prepared by wiser heads than ours, that no hungry heart may go unfed. Will you try, Nora? Mrs. Anderson: You know that I will try. President: Thank you, my dear. God does not give us burdens that are too heavy to be borne. He will give us the light. Let us sing as our closing number, "Lo, I am with you, Oh be not afraid!" (They rise. The soloist sings the first part of the song, the others joining in as she continues, and the curtains close while they are still singing.) Side Lights on the Book of Mormon By John Henry Evans IV JOSEPH SMITH's INTIMATE KNOWLEDGE OF BIBLE TRUTHS IN those violent Kirtland days, when the Prophet was forced to flee the place before the hatred of apostates, a turbulent meeting was held in the temple there. Speaker after speaker rose and assailed the character of the absent "Mormon" leader in the bitterest language. For the dissenters were in the saddle. The few present who still believed in the Prophet longed for some voice to defend him. John Taylor obtained permission to speak. Elder Taylor was a recent convert to the faith. He had only lately come from Toronto, Canada, where he was a local preacher in the Methodist church and where also he was one of a group of highly intelligent men who were looking for the true church. Said the new comer to Kirtland: "Whence do we get our intelligence and knowledge of the laws, ordinances, and doctrines of the kingdom of God? Who understood even the first principles of the doctrines of Christ? Who in the Christian world taught them? If we, with our learning and intelligence, could not find out the first principles which was the case with myself and millions of others, how can we find out the mysteries of the kingdom? It was Joseph Smith, under the Almighty, what developed the first principles, and to him we must look for further instructions." Here was one of the most intellectually alert, independent, and courageous spirits in the group of rather. Remarkable men who were attracted to "Mormonism" in its first years; and the thing, evidently, that stood out in his mind in connection with the faith was the Prophet's firm grasp of theological and religious truth. It was so in the case of the other men in the group of leaders to which John Taylor belonged. Indeed, this it is that set him apart in the minds of most of those who knew him and accepted his teachings. Now, this grasp of theological ideas is one of the things that stand out in the author of the Book of Mormon, whoever he may be. It strikes the non-believer as well as the believer in the divine origin of the Nephite Record. Only, the non-believer is amazed at the extent and depth of the knowledge of the Bible revealed in whoever wrote the Book of Mormon. And when he understands that its author was a country boy without education, experience, or social standing, his amazement increases. And so, in this article, we purpose to examine this aspect of the volume, so as to ascertain just what bearing this feature may have on the claims of Joseph Smith to having produced the Book of Mormon under divine inspiration. ASTERY of our English Bible is an extremely difficult task. And when we say "mastery" we mean something. More than a familiarity with its contents. We mean a getting of one's mind around its fundamental truths, so as to arrive SIDE LIGHTS ON THE BOOK OF MORMON at not only the significance but also the relation of them to one another and to the great scheme of human redemption as revealed in the (Christian theory. There are many people, even today, who read the Bible consistently and persistently. We know, for instance, a woman who begins with "Genesis" and goes through to "Revelations" without skipping anything, just as Ruskin used to do under the guidance and compulsion of his mother, and who, on finishing this last book, turns again to the first one; and she has done this all her mature life. 'And we know a man who reads it from cover to cover once every year for its literary value alone, instead of its theological worth, like most people who read it. These persons, and others who make a business of reading the Hebrew Scriptures, gradually acquire an acquaintance with that volume, so that they are able to tell you where anything is and to find it easily without the use of the Ready Reference. But they do not have a mastery of its contents in the sense for which we are contending here. That is, they do not have such a knowledge of its ideas with the background of persons and environment, as will enable them to get behind these into the very spirit and genius of things. That, however, is exactly what the author of the Book of Mormon has done. First of all, that author, whoever he was, exhibits a profound and extensive knowledge of the principles that underlie the religious life of the people of whom the Bible tells us. The fundamental religious ideas in the Book of Mormon are of a piece with those which we find in the Hebrew Scriptures. Only, in 219 the Book of Mormon, as everybody knows who has read that work sympathetically, these ideas are much clearer than they are in the Bible. Take, for example, the doctrine of baptism. In the New Testament it has apparently been difficult to determine the mode of this ordinance so there shall be no question concerning it. This is evident from the fact that many sincere Christians believe in baptism by immersion, others by sprinkling, and still others by pouring water on the head of the candidate for church membership. The same thing is true of the question as to whether the ordinance should be administered to infants as well as to adults. A very large number of Christian churches thus baptize babies, while others insist that the rite may be properly administered only to people who are capable of belief and repentance. In the Book of Mormon, however, the form of baptism is clear beyond dispute. Says Jesus to the Nephites: "Whoso repenteth of his sins through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them?Ye shall go down and stand in the water. And these are the words which ye shall say, calling them by name: 'Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.' Then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water." This is so plain that, in the words of an ancient prophet, a wayfaring man though a fool need not err therein. It is difficult to understand how one would go about to get any other meaning out of the words than what they bear on their face. To be sure, the thing may at one 220 time have been as clear as this in the New Testament and have been juggled with by men who had a purpose to serve. Of course, it has been claimed by critics of the Book of Mormon and Joseph Smith that the author of the work, who was the unaided and uninspired boy in Palmyra according to them, was merely struggling with a current question in his locality and time; he was merely setting right the churches of his day. For baptism was much discussed in the neighborhood where Joseph Smith lived. But how does it come about that a country boy without education and experience has so firm a grasp on the subject? That has never been explained by the critics. Nor is it attempted. There has almost never been a time in Christian history when the subject of baptism was not warmly talked about and debated. It was not by any means a topic peculiar to the conversation of those who lived in Palmyra. But Joseph aspires to settle a question that has agitated the minds of theological scholars for hundreds of years. And he does clarify the situation remarkably, even though his pronouncements are not generally accepted by Christians. Just how does it happen that this farm-boy knows so much about a controverted subject like baptism? This is only an illustration of what the author of the Book of Mormon has done by way of clearing up disputed points in the Bible. He has done exactly the same thing with the subject of God, the personality and godhood of Christ, the pre-earth life of man, the intermediate state between death and the resurrection, the resurrection itself, the nature of man, the purpose of life, the immortality of the soul, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many other subjects of controversy in Christian theology. These topics are all mentioned in the New Testament, and some of them are discussed there, especially by the Apostle Paul. But the explanations of them are always brief and often so vague that even Christian scholars are not of the same mind as to the meaning of them. The young seer of our times, however, in the Book of Mormon, has not only enlarged upon them, but made them so clear that the layman can readily comprehend them. An example of this may be found in the doctrine of the pre-earth life of man. An existence before this mortal life is declared, although not with the greatest clarity, of Jesus Christ in the New Testament. Only the vaguest hints, however, are given there of a pre-earth life for man?so obscure, in fact, that even the poet Wordsworth dared not advance it as a teaching of the gospel, although he seems to have grasped the idea. But Joseph Smith, in the Nephite Record, develops the idea with reference to man with a boldness and clearness that are startling. This sort of elaboration is closely akin to original thinking. Certainly it evinces a vigorous understanding in whoever accomplishes the feat. And this kind of thing is done over and over again in the Book of Mormon. But the author of the Nephite Record has done more than that. He has entered into the very spirit of the Hebrew life and thought. The warp and woof of Nephite life and civilization is, Hebrew, the sort of thing we find the Bible saturated with. The Lehites came originally from Jerusalem, as did also the Mulekites?two peoples who ultimately united into one nation. Their roots were therefore deep in the soil of Palestine. They had the SIDE LIGHTS ON THE BOOK OF MORMON same grand traditions, the same outlook upon life, the same everything. Only their environment in the New World was different from that of their ancestors. Now, the author of the Book of Mormon, to all intents and purposes, becomes one of its personalities. Not merely in the larger and more obvious features does he show this? the ideas, the customs, the general civilization, this would not be very difficult necessarily, but he does so in the smaller modes of thought, for instance. He sets down what one would naturally expect men to think and say and do, who had the moral and spiritual background that the Nephites are supposed to have. But he sets these down in about the way they would be expected to do under the circumstances. We have reference primarily to the concrete, imaginative manner so common to the Jewish mind.. The Greek mind, thought in generalities. As a rule, That was characteristic of their mental operations. The Hebrew mind, on the contrary, thought in images, in concrete things. "The Lord is my shepherd," says the Psalmist, "I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; he leadeth me beside the still waters." No Greek would have said it thus. He would probably have been content with something like this: God takes care of his children. Much of this concreteness of thought and expression is in the Book of Mormon, just as you would have expected on the assumption that it is a translation of an ancient document about an Israelitish people. "Butter and honey shall he eat," says Nephi of the then unborn Jesus, "that he may know to refuse the evil and to choose the good." This is about as one of Hebrew particulars ? the 221 origin and education would have put it. Not, of course, that the Book of Mormon has no generalizing in it. That would be asking too much. In the Bible are generalizations also. But the characteristic of the Nephite mind, as of the Hebrew mind, was its tendency to think in images rather than in ideas and abstractions, like the Greek intellect. This feature of the Nephite Record has not been enough studied. The author of the Book of Mormon, then, has made a notable achievement in a literary way. For he has succeeded in placing himself in the very shoes of his characters, in creating an atmosphere of verisimilitude, as the literary critic would say, that is very striking. Of course, this does not appear so patently to one who is looking for flaws in the book. Nevertheless, it is there, and he who runs may read. That this sort of thing is extremely difficult, is well known to the literary fraternity. It is vastly more difficult to one who is unschooled than to the educated. Great credit is claimed for Lew Wallace, the author of Ben Hur, because the details and characters in that book are true to the life of the people and the period it tells about, whereas Wallace had not at the time he wrote the story ever set his foot in Palestine. But'Lew Wallace was, first of all, an educated man; then, he had access to all sorts of books on the subject; and, finally, he had had much experience of life and books when he produced the story of the Christ. Joseph Smith, on the contrary, was but a youth at the time the Book of Mormon was published. He had had no training of the mind and no experience of life, to speak of. Moreover, he was but a backwoods boy, whose thoughts and deeds did not transcend the barren environment in which he had been reared. It is doubtful whether he had ever read a book through in his life up to this time, let alone a book on Palestine and the Jews. True, he had read the Bible in parts. But one can read that book very studiously without getting from its pages the ability to do what is done in the Book of Mormon. And the "Mormon" prophet was too young and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE too inexperienced then to have given the Bible much deep study. Besides, all the evidence points to the fact that Joseph was a thinker rather than a reader. So, then, he who believes that the Book of Mormon is a product of an uninspired country boy, taxes his credulity to the breaking point. It is far easier to believe that that work is an inspired translation of an ancient document?as the Prophet says it is, High Noon on the Escalante By Harrison R. Merrill Sunshine? A deluge of blinding light Poured down from polished skies; Cliffs? Rose-hued sky-scrapers with solid walls Rising from a winding water-way; Cottonwoods? Tremulous canopies, Magnificent in fresh May-green Above warm sands of a siren shore; Shadows?? Tender, cool, alluring? Lavender and purple shot through With emerald; Winds? Cool?capering on cliffs, Careening through caves and caverns! Shade, Sunshine, Sheer indolence? Time?>?Eternity Creeping past on snail feet, At high noon On the Escalante. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon An April day! Hearts must rejoice when all nature exults in its sacred silent awakening. Miss MARY ANDERSON, chief of the Federal Women's Bureau, advocates shorter hours and better pay for women. She claims that wages have been reduced more than the cost of living; and figures prove that nearly one-tenth of the women in gainful occupations now unemployed are heads of families. Mrs. KATE E. HARBECK, a widow, living modestly in a secluded place, recently bequeathed $6,000,000 to charities in New York City. None of these charities had ever heard of their benefactress. Mrs. AMY BROWN LYMAN recently received the appointment of Governor of the Utah province of Pi Gamma Mu, national social science honor society. The honor is in recognition of her accomplishments in the field of social work in the west, over a number of years.. Mrs. Lyman is the first to receive that honor in Utah. Mrs. ALICE F. DOKE of Ephraim, Utah, has been named vice president of the Penn Mutual Leaders' Club for the western zone of United States. This honor came for successful and diligent service. "Mocking Stones," a drama by Mary E. Hatch of Utah, is to be included in Prof. Koch's book, "American Folk Plays." Fanny Fern Andrews' book, "The Holy Land Under Mandate," is a comprehensive and impartial review of the whole case in the Far East. Scribners narrative contest awarded the three first prizes to women writers. "The Silver Bell," a new book by Ethel M. Dell, an English author, is said to be a most fascinating story. Edna Ferber has not adopted her own philosophy that everybody should marry.. Perhaps she is too busy writing experiences of her brain children to know the fulness of life. Miss Ethel McDowell presides over Chicago's family court, whose important function is to adjust difficulties without divorce. Minnie Maddern Fiske, America's greatest actress, closed her stage career only with death's transition. From the age of three, she held front place in the legitimate drama through periods of successes of her contemporaries. Producer Tyler paid her this fine tribute: "For forty years she held the position of the first American actress. She had no poses, no vanities. Perhaps not in several generations will the theatre have a figure of her stature." Madam Johanna Gadski, who died from the effects of an automobile accident in Berlin, was especially noted for her work in Wagnerian operas and was considered the most celebrated "Bruenhilda" of the operatic stage. The Hawaiian women mourn the death of their former princess, Elizabeth Kalanianaole, who with her wealth and culture helped them maintain some of their island traditions. What Mankind Gains from the Investigation of Nature With a Friendly Comment Upon the Study of Man By J. H. Paul It is man, it is mind, it is the intelligent human spirits, as contrasted with the dim mentality of the animal world, that gives to the material universe all its worth and all its glory. Forgetfulness of this fact has misled many an observer into a sort of blind adoration of the lower species, as if the creatures without souls, or minds in the human sense, were in some way superior to the minds that perceive, classify, and make use of the lower realms of reality. Nevertheless, I do not hold that it is more to the purpose of mankind to consider what man does than what nature is doing. Though "the proper study of mankind is man," we do not engage in something inferior if we study the laws and teachings of nature, and it is doubtful that we do better to study the laws, the teachings, and the histories of men. In the serious and worthy study of man?his motives, his character ?the most remote times were probably as proficient as we are today. We have no finer stories than the story of Joseph, told at the dawn of civilization; no nobler characters than Moses, Abraham, Plato, Socrates; no more brutal and _ bloodthirsty tyrants than those of Babylon and Nineveh; no deeds of men more heroic than those recorded by Homer; no men more patriotic than Cincinnatus: no sculptors, painters, dramatists, excelling the Greeks. The study of man is so inviting that it early reached an excellence that has remained unsurpassed. But in the study of nature, the exciting lures that urge forward the study of man are lacking. The cool and laborious atmosphere of science is not particularly inviting; it requires actual heroism, mental resolution, and unusual courage to turn aside from the beaten paths into the realms and mysteries of nature. At certain times, and to certain persons, the discovery of truth is fascinating in its way; but, with most natures, it cannot compete with the excitement of the dance, the delights of love, the charms of gay society, the allurements of the feast, the terrors of warfare, the joys of building a home. The world of gaiety, of temptation, of pleasure, is always enticing; but whether or not two triangles are equal to each other, whether the tree is a spruce or a fir, the bird a finch or a thrush, the comet a gas or a solid, the fuel a wood, a coal, or a hydrocarbon?these things do not possess much appeal. Whatever, therefore, can be done to increase that appeal should be undertaken. We should never discourage the pursuit of truth. If by any means we can turn the longing and the hope of one in a thousand from commonplace activities, in which at best we shall barely equal what has been done by millions of people before our day, to the realm of nature, then, it seems clear, we shall have THE INVESTIGATION OF NATURE made a mighty gain in civilization; for whatever is investigated here may turn out to be the means of uplifting the race. Admitting, therefore, that the study of man will always have its votaries by the countless millions, while the followers of science are so few that they seem to be curiosities in comparison?like the few who "enter in at the strait gate" as compared with the many there be that go in at the broad way?it does not follow that the "few" are pursuing what is of less, but what seems to me to be of more, consequence to mankind than that which is sought after by the great bulk of the people. The reported rapture of the few at the discovery of the laws and ways of nature may seem to be overdrawn. When Kepler learned that the planets in their revolution obey the laws of mind?the formulae of. Mechanics?he exclaimed in deepest reverence: "O God, I read thy thoughts after thee;" and when he was informed that the authorities had destroyed his book, he answered: "My book can well wait 600 years, if need be, for a reader; for God has waited 6,000 years for an observer." Newton felt the same; so did Galileo, Leverrier, and Adams. The thrill that one feels upon the discovery of truth may seem to express itself beyond reason, but it is sincere, genuine, and justifiable. Moreover, the treatment of human emotions gains greater beauty and rises far above the commonplace when the poet is also, as is usually the case, an observer and lover of nature; as when Tennyson says: There has fallen a splendid tear From the passion flower at the gate; 225 She is coming, my dove, my dear; She is coming, my life, my fate! The red rose cries, "She is near, she is near!" And the white rose weeps, "She is late;" The larkspur listens, "I hear, I hear;" And the lily whispers, "I wait." The advantages of city living are due to the discoveries of science, for before the day of sustained scientific investigation, the human hives called cities were worse than the burrows of animals or the nests of birds. In those centuries, the black plague, the cholera, the smallpox, took fearful toll of human life. It is science that has placed man on a tower of safety. But for vaccination, we should all have our faces pock-marked today as did people formerly; and though there was only one Harvey, one Jenner; only one Pasteur, one Einstein, one Gilbert White, one Audubon? yet each has lifted man to higher levels in the realm of clean living and high thinking. Small need is there to commend the study of man?a subject fascinating to all people. The daily press is filled with it?a fact that has led certain religious orders to decry the reading of the daily papers because of the scandalous nature of much of their content. This is an unwarranted attitude, no doubt, yet it is based upon the perception that the ways of man are disheartening and that they had better not be too long or too minutely contemplated. Nature, on the other hand, always lifts its worshippers to higher levels. Rousseau was so much impressed with the lowering tendency of the study of the ways of men as contrasted with the uplifting tendency from investigating the laws of nature that he thought the youth should be kept out of human society and trained in nature until of an age to avoid contamination from the foibles of mankind. Moore declined to write a history of the poets lest he should be accused of trying to present a complete picture of human misery. Not only is the study of man fascinating, it is closely related to the art of "getting on" in the world. Every successful rogue, every financial wizard, must be well versed in it. "Select your victim, use psychology on him, and you will get his order for your wares." The study of men led Barnum, Jay Gould, and others like them to "success" in the cheap American sense. The study of man has ever been the winning card of swindlers, of cheap politicians, of deceivers of all sorts. We like to witness dramas, tragRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE edies, comedies; to read good stories, to attend exciting movies, to be present at public celebrations, parades, and other noisy exhibits of mob psychology, from which the wise and cultured quite commonly shrink. There is, in short, no need of unusual inducements for man to study and observe the ways of man. It pays todoso. Itis fun, excitement, exhilaration. The chief difficulty one who would make anything of himself as a scientist, artist, scholar, experiences, is to keep away from most of the social functions. The endless chatter, the formal talks of "the mayor" and other officials at public affairs, the blare of the six brass bands when even the village celebrates "the glorious fourth" or the strawberry festival?all this the real student frowns upon or laughs at as the sport of children and barbarians. Plowing By Theron Luke The man behind the plow has long been used as a symbol of agriculture and of the soil. Always he is pictured as walking behind a hand plow that is drawn by a single team of horses. Few people, outside of the farming profession itself, know that the walking hand plow has become almost extinct in modernized agriculture. Nowadays, the farmer is seated on a modern riding, two way, three or four horse plow, and while this latter method may not be quite so picturesque as the former, it is decidedly more efficient. It is not an absolutely quiet work. In fact to some, it perhaps seems extremely noisy. The clink and ring as the steel stay chains hit against the iron single trees, predominate among the many and varied noises. The squeak and crack of the harness leather, as the horses strain and tug against it, can be plainly heard, and through this, indistinct yet clear if one listens for it, the puffing of the horses themselves. Overhead, the high shrill calls of the seagulls come to the ear; that peculiar, high scream that ends in a squawk. Occasionally, one zips past the plowman's head, and once in a very great while, one will light for a fraction of a second on his head. Through all of this, PLOWING TO PLOW IS TO PRAY even it might be said as the background for it, the steady, even, smooth slither of the newly turned furrow can be heard, sliding off the plow-share onto the ground. It can be compared to a small, not too violent ripple of running water, in its smooth consistency. Underneath, _ the ground slowly slides past under the plowman's eye, and almost makes him dizzy if he watches it for a long enough period without looking up. When the plowman comes to the end of the furrow, and the clash of the lever and gears of the tripping mechanism has died down, the quiet seems unnatural, and his ears fairly ring with the loudness of it. It is not until he starts back on the next trip, subconsciously hearing all of these noises, yet hardly hearing any of them, that he is restored to the dreamy lassitude that plowing provokes. My Prayer By Josephine Gardner Moench Help me to reach the heights supreme Within this world of mine; Nor grope, nor pine, nor cease to strive, Nor give up in despair, Because the heights some others reach O'er shadow mine so far. Notes to the Field Magazine Subscriptions We are pleased to print herewith the names of the Wards that have reached the goal in Magazine subscriptions. We regret that several did not send in their enrollment, number of subscriptions and the names of their agents. We deeply appreciate the excellent work done in increasing our subscriptions. No. Of Stake Ward Enrollment Subscriptions: Agent Alberta Taylorville I Ensign 12-13th 85 86 Alma J. Erickson Ensign 20th 103 105 Jean H. Betenson Big Horn Worland (Branch) 27 30 Janie Tolman Penrose (Branch) 8 8 Maricopa Phoenix 2nd 72 80 Elnora Shupe Juarez Garcia 19 22 Nellie S. Hatch Juarez Pacheco 16 18 Lora Cluff Palmyra Leland 37 37 Box Elder 2nd Ward 85 85 Ingrid Nelson, Sec. Los Angeles Wilmington 33 33 Effie K. Christensen Eastern States Mission Newark Branch 32 32 Tone A. Alger Maricopa Gilbert 35 38 Vivian Phelps Young Durango Branch 8 12 Alta M. Christensen, Fremont Independence Pres. Fremont Rexburg Fourth Alice M. Howard Moapa St. Thomas Mary S. Prince, Pres. Snowflake Heber 13 13 Elva Shelley Lethbridge Calgary 18 23 Helen Faulkner Union Baker Mrs. Leo E. Shurtliff Union Mt. Glen We Thank You Again have the Relief Society women manifested their willingness to do anything and everything asked of them. Word went out to the stakes to have their signatures for the National Council petitions in by April 1st. Late in February a request came from the Council that two thousand signatures be sent in by March 1st. Knowing the Relief Society women, President Robison wired back, "We will have the signatures by the date specified." Within a week, over six thousand signatures had been sent in by the Relief Society women. We thank our sisters for this prompt response to the request made of them. Work and Business Cottonwood Stake Relief Society in Cooperation with U. S. A. C. Extension Service Object: The work of this department for 1931-32, or as long as the present relationship exists, will have as its primary object the establishing of improved practices in home and family relationships, as well as taking care of the regular business of the organization. The major part of the program as outlined deals primarily with child development, that is, showing the parents of small children that food, clothing and environment are the fundamental character building influences of children from infancy to school age, the habit forming years. The economies of each phase is dealt with, and some phases are purely to show values. Problems: 1. The inability to judge and to provide the necessities of life in advance is a common problem in many families of the wards in this stake. What the body needs for adequate maintenance; how to get the most for the money expended for food; how to prepare it to retain the food values, and better methods of preservation, along with good standards, is the first problem. 2. What the minimum clothing requirement of the family is, the amount that can be purchased, and how to make good use of the articles on hand, is the next consideration. 3. Making the home as healthful, wholesome and attractive as possible with the means provided is another problem of the well organized family. While these are lifetime problems, much headway can be made by dealing with each phase slowly, simply and persistently, still holding the interest of the individual. We know that every Latter-day Saint woman values and cherishes the "family." This type of a program should aid her in building a more permanent structure. Methods: The method that has been adopted this year is as follows: A yearly 229 program has been provided. Once each month the leaders from each ward are to meet and receive information by way of a lecture, and as far as possible, participate in a demonstration. Literature, simplified from good authority, is provided for each member of each organization who wishes to participate. A record is kept of the members who receive literature so a check can be made as to whether she is receiving any benefits or not. If not, the reason must be discovered and a new approach made. In the ward the group is divided. It is generally conceded that the older women have more interest in the quilt and rug making, and should be given that responsibility. They should not be deprived of the social contacts they make thereby. There is another group who are definitely interested in building homes. This is the group which this program provides for. The lecture and demonstration is given in the ward much the same as the leaders receive it. The stake leader visits some ward each week the last three weeks of the month. A schedule, made for the year, is placed in the hands of the president. Additional meetings are often called for some part of the work. PROGRAM OF WORK October?Clothing for children. Discussion on hygienic clothing for children. How general health and posture are influenced by methods of construction as well as types of fabrics. Demonstration on feet and shoes. Demonstration material for leaders: Approved patterns for girls' dresses, boys' suits, underwear. November?Best Toys and Their Selection. 230 How, when, what to select or construct for child of given age. Simple and practical gifts for adults. December ? Suitable Candies and Cookies for Children. Canning card sent to leaders to make a record of canned goods on hand. Card to be returned. January?Winter vegetable preparation. Why have vegetables? What kinds are most important, and how to prepare them to retain maximum amount of food value. Considering vegetable adequacies per person. February?Rug Making. What and how. Color combinations. Kinds. Braided. Crocheted. Hooked. Materials. All kinds. March?Cleaners, Waxers and Polishers. Inexpensive, easily made, good preparations for cleaning walls, woodwork, floors and furniture. April?Simple Drapery. Kitchen curtains. Suitable styles and fabrics. Color harmonies, etc. May. First of month send out another canning card to list canned products on hand now, and bring the family canning budget to demonstrate. Canning fruits, vegetables and meat. Considering the means of supplying food for canning. June?Exhibit. The group to be divided into as many parts as there have been phases of work. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Each group exhibit on one thing: Children's clothing. Toys made at home. Candies and cookies. Rugs. Vegetable preparation. Canning. Simple drapery. This month's work will be discussed with leaders. One value it would have if given in stake would be to encourage the wards which are slow. A FRUITFUL SUGGESTION We quote herewith extracts from a letter written by Sarah G. Hoge of the Blackfoot Stake, to Professor Poulson who has prepared our social service lessons: "Last year in the social service lesson published in the October Magazine you made the suggestion that it would be good medicine for the members of the Relief Society group to write down their most worthwhile thoughts. "The idea appealed to me very strongly, so as social service class leader in the Blackfoot Stake, I have urged this suggestion very often. "No one seemed to think she had any ability whatever along that line. Each one felt it was a joke for her to try to write anything worthwhile. However, each union meeting day I urged the class leaders to go back to their associations and keep persuading the women to try, explaining that it need not be poetry (perhaps I had best say rhymes); worthwhile and original thoughts written in either prose or rhyme were what we wanted. Well, finally after about three months I began to have results. The class leaders had gathered a few verses and sent them in. Each month the contributions grew until finally we had enough from several wards to have a twenty-minute preNOTES TO THE FIELD liminary program in union meeting. The ladies were invited to come from the various wards and give their own thoughts. We still have several wards due for preliminary programs, and they are prepared, waiting for an opportunity." It is a pleasure to win recognition by having the opportunity of having one's work read in public gatherings or printed, but far more important is the development that comes through the effort put forth. In the words of Robert Louis Stevenson, "To journey is better than to arrive. The effort is greater than the achievement. The process making for experience is a development and a growth." Here are some of the contributions: BEAR LAKE VALLEY (Dedicated to my Childhood Home) By Sara G. Hoge To thee, O peaceful valley Surrounded by verdant hills, I wish to dedicate the thought That my whole being fills. My mind oft strays down "Memory Lane" To childhood days gone by, Where'er I chance to sojourn Mid distant scenes or nigh. To your wondrous lake and canyons, Your creek and peaks so high, Your song of birds at dawning, And peace when dusk draws nigh. To your broad green lanes all edged with trees, Your wild flowers and your rain That taps unrivaled melodies Against the window pane. To your dry farms and your meadow lands, And frogs that croak at night While nature folds her tired wings And goes to sleep with night. To your lowing herds at evening wending Their ways from pasture bars At call of herd boy from afar Ere peep the liquid stars. 231 The old time friends, the sweet content, All so devoid of strife, Make me feel I almost Catch a glimpse of future life. And "memories that bless and burn" Midst youth's familiar scenes, Carry me back in years a score And life seems but a dream. So few have been the changes Since my youth in place and scene That I seem to have just awakened From a semi-conscious dream. THE SUN DANCE By Jane Bradford Terry (The significance of this dance was explained by Thomas Cosgrove, an Indian, who read this poem with the comment, "You understand the heart of the Indian.") On the Indian reservation Where the land is clad in sage brush, When the sun shone warm in summer, Redmen built a large enclosure Made of boughs and poles and willows. In the center of the circle Stood a pole securely planted. On the pole a head of bison To remind the dusky Redmen How their fathers lived and hunted. All around inside the circle Dressed in gaily-colored blankets Bare their arms and feet and bosoms, Symbols painted on their bodies, Stood the Redmen watching closely For the signal of the Sun Dance. Forward, backward, danced the Redmen, Waving fans of eagle feathers, Blowing whistles shrill and bird-like, Whistles made from bones of eagles. Forward, backward, danced the Redmen, To the beating of the tom-tom, To the sound of women singing. LAUGH By Sarah E. Andersen Laugh! It is healthy to laugh. A good laugh opens the lungs, stimulates the heart, and sends the blood in a cleansing stream to every part of the body. CHARACTER By Sarah E. Andersen Character comes first with the great 232 teachers of the world. It was the heart of the message of Jesus. Character comes first in home life. As fast as it develops mutual trust, helpfulness, kindness, and love, it takes the place of contention, cruelty, and selfishness. SPRINGTIME By Jane Bradford Terry When the air is warm and fragrant And you hear the hum of bees,, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Breezes wafting scent of blossoms, Birds a-singing in the trees, Brooklets murmuring sweetest music, Butterflies a-sailing by, Golden sunshine, warm and radiant Making clear the bluest sky? Seems the great Outdoors is calling, And you want to hike along, See the beauties of creation, Get in tune with Nature's song. Notes from the: Field Nothing is more expressive than the reports of accomplishments which are constantly coming into the office from the stakes. Truly the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith have been fulfilled in reference to the promises made to the Relief Society. Juarez Stake: The President of the Juarez Stake writes in the bulletin which she sends to her wards and branches each month: "A mother is the busiest person ever. With so many demands made for her attention, her secret desires are often the last consideration, especially when her family is small, but as the children grow older more time is at mother's disposal, This should be used for her own development. She can now do some of the things she has probably wished to do for some time. A mother owes it to herself to set aside a portion of time to do the thing which is an expression of herself. To learn a little every day is the best insurance for rich, ripe old age. Mothers can keep in touch with the happenings in their own community, and in many cases throughout the world, and the Relief Society is of first interest in this respect." In this remote stake the question of distance and the inaccessibility of some of the wards and branches, make it most necessary to keep contact through correspondence, and by means of the bulletin to which we have referred, this stake president is able to do the fine piece of work animated by the spirit which has already been quoted. In the bulletins which are sent out each month, the most important advice of the moment is given. This covers a careful study of the lesson preparation, and the self-improvement of the sisters and the Relief Society members. A very splendid campaign in the interest of the Magazine has also been put into effect, with the result that in some of the very small wards 100% has been reached. In the outlines of the lessons which are submitted, the text is simplified, where necessary, and a most excellent type of preparation is presented for the class leaders. Particular attention is called to some of the common errors in ordinary usage, and the correct and incorrect way cited. A splendid preparation of the literary lesson, also of the social service, of the theology and of the work and business activities were outlined. The preparation of the bulletin shows very great care and attention on the part of the president and her co-workers. The song practice is not omitted, but is definitely encouraged. The sugNOTES FROM THE FIELD gestions for mothers in the way of social entertainment, games, good books to read, and all kinds of wholesome activity are suggested. The teachers' topic is discussed, and a fine presentation is also submitted. One of the outstanding accomplishments of the stake is the result which came from the story-writing contest. The president writes: "We were very much pleased to announce the winners in the recent story-writing contest. We heartily congratulate all who won favorable mention, and we extend our appreciation to all who responded to the request to write up incidents from the history of our country. We hope they will try again. Such talent should be developed. The judges were enthusiastic over the ability shown in the stories, and pronounced them out of the amateur class. The decisions were as follows: First place, Florence Allen, for the story called 'The Trust;' second place, Irene Martineau, 'While I Waited; favorable mention was made of 'Revenge,' Laveta Lunt; 'Light of Faith,' Loa Wilson; 'Kids is Kids,' Agnes Bluth; 'Lupa,' Ruby S. Brown; 'Lest We Forget,' Elinor Robinson; "All is Well, Evelyn Palmer. We are proud of you, "In collecting items of interest for the day when the history of your ward organization was given, did you have trouble in finding anything besides the dates and mere statistics? The responsibility for keeping this data is, in the main, the secretary's, but we urge that the president look into the minutes occasionally and see that everything concerning the growth of the organization is properly recorded. Every worthwhile or important happening in the Relief Society should be made note of, and the history of your Society should be kept up to date." 233 Big Horn Stake: One of the many pleasing results from reading and studying the scriptures was demonstrated last summer, when the sisters of the Otto Relief Society conceived the idea of making white suits to be worn by the children being baptized, and also for those officiating. In this case, as in many other wards, this ordinance has to be performed in an open stream. The satisfaction which came from this accomplishment paid those sisters for all they had done. "Pioneer socials, during the summer months, were held in each of the wards to the delight of both old and young. Patriarch C, A. Welch contributed several original poems, incidents of pioneer days in the Big Horn. It was intensely interesting as well as pleasing to know these happenings have been recorded. Laughable stunts were played, songs were sung, Primary children gave several numbers, refreshments were served to large crowds, and as 'good-nights' were said, it was with a fond desire to 'meet again.' "The project, a vegetable and a flower garden for every home, resulted in a fine exhibit of vegetables, fruits and flowers, the day preceding our convention last August. In connection with this was a display of many and varied articles made during the past year. Following this was a banquet in honor of the Relief Society presidents given by President Boyack and her board members. To continue the garden project, warning and advice were given to 'fill every bottle' or in some way utilize everything available. Persons having surplus gave public notice and those who were without were supplied in this way. Besides having all we needed and some to spare, the outstanding blessing and promise 'that which cometh from the earth is for man that he might have in abundance,' was realized and appreciated. As for the flowers, 4,000 perennials were planted, and the Cowley Ward, having planted the largest number was awarded a bulb for each member of the organization. "During the month of September, visiting teachers' and Class Leaders' conventions were held in each ward, thus reaching more teachers and officers than before. Subjects discussed were: The Magazine in Every Home, Visiting Teachers' Responsibility, Pre-natal Care, Flower Culture, The New Testament and General Instructions. 234 At one meeting we were fortunate in securing two professional speakers, one, a rose specialist, spoke on varieties suited to our climate and their culture; the other subject, Health, which was discussed in a timely and masterly style. Both were exceptionally good. Our stake presidency are in hearty accord with the social service work sponsored by the Relief Society, and are giving loyal support. The literary contest, requesting incidents in pioneer life, poems and songs, has created so much interest that we are happy to welcome the brethren in the 'struggle for superiority'. TOOELE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CHOIR Tooele Stake: The above picture is of the Tooele Stake Relief Society choir, which has done so much to bring up the standard of choral music, and create genuine pleasure throughout the stake. The choir was composed of sisters from the various wards of the stake, and was conducted by Sister Lizzie Barrus, with Sister Ada Higginson as organist. To stimulate Relief Society ward teaching this stake has offered an award to the ward which has the NOTES FROM THE FIELD best percentage of teachers' visits for the year. From the reports already received, there seems to be an awakening in interest and visits. St. Joseph Stake: The St. Joseph stake Relief Society held its annual class leaders and visiting teachers convention in the Fall in the Thatcher ward house, commencing at 1:30. P. M. President Ethel D. Payne presided and conducted. Opening song, 'Earth With Her Ten Thousand Flowers.' Song, 'Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire.' President Payne welcomed all present, and hoped they would feel well paid for their attendance. Brother Millard Kartchner gave a violin selection, accompanied on the piano by Sister Elizabeth Crandall. Before going to class work, all stood with bowed heads for a minute in respect to Sister Minnie Mickelson, whose funeral was held that morning, She was a very faithful Relief Society worker, and at one time was president of the Thatcher Ward. In the teachers' department, the Pima Ward Society presented a model way for teachers to visit in the homes. Instructions were given, and discussions entered into. Brother Harvey Taylor, president of the Gila Junior College, gave an historical background for the Book of Mormon, and instructions on use of the Book of Mormon chart in the theological department. In the social service department, Brother Wesley Taylor, teacher in Gila Junior College, gave a short outline on the social service work for the year. Brother Monroe Clark, also a teacher in the college, presented a treatise on the short story of today in the literary department. At 3 p. M., we had a general session. When the roll was called there were 11 stake board members 235 present, 1 excused; 45 ward officers, 25 class leaders, 112 visiting teachers, 72 members and visitors; making a total in all of 265. President H. L. Payne gave a very good talk on the Tobacco Habit, and read several excerpts from President Heber J. Grant's sermon in recent conference. He said every boy who wished to do big things should not use tobacco. Physicians say that women who persist in the use of tobacco will not have the privilege of becoming mothers. He spoke of the danger of so much speed. Try to encourage our young people to use their speed in a wise way. "President Ethel D. Payne announced that the stake Relief Society had a beautiful bridal outfit made for the brides of this stake to wear when they are married in the temple. It is now ready, and will be sent to Mesa for the opening of the Arizona Temple in the fall. She hoped the girls would all be married in the Temple. "Closing song, 'O, Ye Mountains High.' Benediction, Sister Amelia Evans of the stake board. A number of wards had some lovely work on display. After the meeting the stake board served punch and cookies. It was a very enjoyable convention." Tongan Mission: Sister Floy B. Cutler, president of the Tongan Mission Relief Society, writes as follows: "We are pleased to report the organization of two new Relief Societies in the Tongatabu District during the year, making in all twelve organizations, all presided over by native sisters. These women are diligent in their labors, and endeavor to keep up the standards of Relief Society work. We realize that we have disadvantages here that are not experienced in many of the other 236 missions, but we are striving continually to overcome these difficulties, and I feel that progress is being made through the auxiliary organiUNION STAKE'S UNIQUE QUILT Union Stake: The above picture shows an "Advertising Quilt," made by the Union Stake Relief Society Board. "We were asked for funds to help pay stake indebtedness. The wards in our stake are rather scattered, which makes it somewhat difficult to raise the money with sales because it puts the greater part of the burden on one ward, so our president planned the quilt, called the "Wheel of Advertising." Space was sold on the quilt to the merchants of our town, and their names, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE zations in delivering the Gospel message to the people of these Islands. The native sisters send greetings to the Relief Society workers in Zion." and in some cases a short identifying phrase, was embroidered in the space. The rim and spokes of the wheel were shaded with crayolas. The quilt was made of beautiful material and quilted with a well-designed border. It was placed in store windows on two different streets in the business section of the town, and aroused quite a good deal of comment. Some of our wards are adapting the idea for 'friendship' quilts, and the quilts will have the names of members of the organization only." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Amy Whipple Evans. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman VOL, XIX APRIL, 1932 No. 4 EDITORIAL The Drawing Power of Christ "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me."?John 12:32. "And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. "And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with them: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; "And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever. "And the Lord said: Whom shall I send? And one answered like unto the Son of Man: Here am I, send me. And the Lord said: I will send the first."? Abraham 3:23-27. "And I, the Lord God, spake unto Moses, saying: That Satan whom thou hast commanded in the name of mine Only Begotten, is the same which was from the beginning, and he came before me, saying?Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor. "But, behold, my Beloved Son, which was my Beloved and Chosen from the beginning, said unto me?Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever. "Wherefore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency of man, which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I should give unto him mine own power; by the power of mine Only Begotten, I caused that he should be cast down."? Moses 4:1-3. The surpassing love of the Christ was manifested in the plan he offered in the great council of heav238 en. His plan was founded on honor and love for his Father and free agency for man, so different from the force and self-glory of Lucifer's plan. To redeem mankind, the Christ left the courts of glory to tabernacle in the flesh, and suffered as man has never suffered. So great was his agony on one occasion that great drops of blood betokened his anguish. His norm from childhood was to be about his "Father's business." His love went out to his brothers and sisters and again and again would he have gathered them as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but they would not. He taught them how to live, he told them of the glory of the life to come, he healed the sick, unstopped the ears of the deaf, made the blind to see, raised the dead. His whole thought was to magnify his mission and accomplish his work, At times, his suffering was almost beyond endurance. In the Garden of Gethsemane he said, "My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. * * O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt."? Matthew 26:38-39. Again did he supplicate: "O: my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done." ?Matthew 26 42, Lifted up on the cross he endured RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the jeers of the multitude, a crown of thorns was placed upon his head, vinegar was given to quench his thirst, and his flesh was pierced with nails. Thus did he suffer the most ignominious death the Jews knew how to inflict, yet was he not defeated, but was master. Midst jeers and scorn and cruel taunts, his forgiving love prompted the prayer, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do." Before this advent, prophets announced his coming. Since his advent, historians have marked the influence of his life and teaching. Millions have felt as Tennyson, "Our wills are ours we know not how, Our wills are ours to make them thine." His teaching and influence have transformed people from human to divine. He has been the animator of progress, the moulder of civilization. His reign is eternal and is ever extending farther and farther. He is the pivotal point of all history, Everything looks backward or forward to the Christ. Because he was lifted up he has drawn men unto him. The civilized world hail him as King. The source of his drawing power is his divine love, and so his prophecy is constantly being fulfilled?he was lifted up and he is day by day drawing more and more men unto him. April Sixth People do well to celebrate the birthdays of their loved ones and of those noted people who have given outstanding service. It is profitable, also, to observe anniversaries of the beginnings of great events and movements that have blessed mankind. This year, the Relief Society has the unique opportunity of holding its conference on April 6, the one hundred and second anniversary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. As the members assemble on this day they think of the wonderful results attendant on that event. Many of those assembled will realize that EDITORIAL they owe their American birth to the restoration of the gospel on April 6, and to the subsequent proclaiming of the glad tidings of great joy in foreign lands. Their parents or grandparents, in response to that message, left their native heath and came to the promised land that they and their children might partake of the blessings of the gospel. They will ponder over what the gospel means to them, of the joy and peace it has brought to their souls. They will realize that it has transformed their lives, it has illuminated their paths, and it has given them the opportunity of sending their fathers and husbands, sons and daughters, out to proclaim the glad tidings, and it has given them the opportunity to enter temples to save their dead. All they are, all that they hope to be, is centered in the gospel of Jesus Christ, restored on April 6, 1830. And so reverently and with songs and prayers and gratitude will they approach the throne of grace, thanking the Father for this event and its tremendous consequences. The President of the National Council Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, president of the National Council of Women, has shown in an unmistakable way her unselfish devotion to the cause of the Council and to the Chicago projects by refusing a salary of $5,000 a year for her services, and offering to do the work without pay. We quote a letter she wrote to President Robison as we are sure our readers will be glad to know how fine a character they have in their president. "My Dear Mrs. Robison: "I have given careful consideration to the motion passed by the Board of Directors at the meeting held here on December 1st concerning my serving as Executive Director for our Chicago projects, with the understanding that the money budgeted for the salary of such Executive Director (approximately $5000 a year) be paid me as salary. "Due to the unusual character of work involved, I believe our Executive Committee feels that this work will best be carried by me. It is difficult to find an Executive Director who can now easily take hold of our plans, touching as they must our member organizations in so many ways. I realize this difficulty and am prepared, with the counsel and cooperation of our Executive Committee, to direct our campaign for signatures and to develop plans for our Chicago projects. "Appreciative as I am, however, of this considerate action on the part of our Board, I do not feel that I can accept from the Council a salary for this work. I accepted the presidency because of my conviction that it was something that I should do. The best of my thinking and of my efforts are and will be devoted to this program. I shall be happier, however, to feel that I am one with the. Many other volunteers who are contributing to organized womanhood through their work for the Council. "Cordially, "(Signed) Lena Madesin Phillips, President." Counselor Lyman Honored E congratulate Counselor Amy Brown Lyman on the honor that has recently come to her in her appointment as Governor of the Utah Province of Pi Gamma Mu, national social science honor society. Mrs. Lyman's outstanding work and charming personality have won her recognition not only in the field of social service but she has also played a prominent part in the activities of the National Council of Women. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) THEOLOGY?THE Book or Mormon IDEA OF THE HEREAFTER Select Readings: Alma, chapters 36-42 inclusive. Summarize the teachings of Alma the younger. Ideas here. It is time now to sum wp, to take account of our findings with respect to the value of the Book of Mormon as an evidence of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. First of all, as to the ideas it contains. (1) There is the idea of God in his dealings with sinners in hell. The ideas in the Nephite Record, we found, were not at all in agreement with those that were current at the time of the Prophet, either in Palmyra or throughout the Christian world. (2) There is the doctrine concerning man. Joseph Smith gave us what amounts to a new definition of immortality, in the Book of Mormon. Man not only is now and will continue a conscious individual after death, but he is co-eval with God. And this new immortality, so far as we know, had never been advanced as a Christian doctrine before the Prophet's time. (3) There is the emphasis on man's life here. While this is not altogether new, being found in the Gospels, yet it was new in his time, first, in the stress on the Now and the Here and, secondly, in the attention to the near-end of human life instead of the remote. As a matter of fact, it is only now, when people have become disgusted with the older emphasis, that this idea has taken on a new meaning. These ideas were put out by Joseph Smith. But Joseph Smith was Note the separate uneducated; he had had no training in theology; and he was young, besides, not yet twenty-five. It is hardly credible that he alone was responsible for a set of ideas like these. That is why critics of the Book of Mormon have spent a full hundred years in trying to find out whether any other man helped him in the literary work involved. No competent critic, however, now believes that either Sidney Rigdon or Solomon Spaulding had anything to do with writing the Record. The Prophet always maintained that God revealed the Book of Mormon to him, through Moroni, a resurrected man. This we have seen in the testimony he gives in his Autobiography. We submit that it is easier to believe that he was divinely inspired in this work than that he did it unaided of man or of God.: And there is the whole case, so far as the Book of Mormon is concerned. But there is at least one bit of external evidence that we must touch upon here. It is the testimony of the three and the eight witnesses to the existence of the plates from which the Prophet claims to have translated the Book of Mormon. And the three witnesses bear testimony also to the fact of the heavenly messenger. The reader should here turn to LESSON DEPARTMENT these testimonies, for there is not space here for them. The eight witnesses declare that, in addition to seeing the gold plates, they also "hefted" them. Here are the two most dependable of the five senses involved in this testimony? sight and touch. The three witnesses declare that they saw the angel and heard his voice and that they saw the plates in his hands. Here are the senses of sight and hearing involved in the situation. Oliver Cowdery elsewhere states that he "handled" both the plates and the urim and thummim, with which the book was translated. It is customary with us to show that these eleven men were not deceived by the Prophet and that they were not lying, because they had no motive to do so either as to wealth or fame. But really this is not necessary any more, for the reason that the ground of belief in human testimony has shifted during recent years. At one time no testimony was thought credible that was "improbable." This test depended on the opinion of the critic. If he looked upon it as improbable, he threw it out; but if he believed it probable, he accepted it. Hume, an English philosopher and historian, declared flatly that "the miraculous is the impossible," and he refused. Even to consider it, no matter how many persons testified to it. But Professor Ihne, a German historian who deals with source material, says that the test to be applied to any witness is whether he is "able and willing to tell the truth." + (See his work on Ancient Rome.) And some of our own historians in America believe this test applicable to witnesses to the miraculous as well. Indeed, as Professor Ihne tells us, every historical event rests ultimately on hu241 man testimony; and since the miraculous is an event that happens, it may be supposed that it, too, must of necessity rest on testimony. This, at all events, is the modern way to test the witnesses to the Book of Mormon. The positive, undeviating testimony of these twelve men, if we include that of the Prophet, ought to be sufficient to enable one to trust in the divine origin of the Book of Mormon. ' Perhaps it ought to be said at this point that even the testimony of these twelve men is not enough to give us a knowledge of the divine origin of the Nephite Record. At best that testimony is but evidence. A knowledge of the divine origin of that work can come only through our own experience, our own individual contact with the spiritual source of spiritual knowledge. Moroni, in the Record itself, tells us how that is to be done. "When ye shall receive these things," he says, speaking of the time we are in, "I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost." Having this assurance that Joseph Smith really did have spiritual contacts, through which he received visions and revelations concerning the Book of Mormon, we may now proceed with our last point in the study of the Nephite Record: the ideas it gives us about heaven, to which we shall add what the Prophet himself furnishes us on the same subject. The fact of another life, if we must discriminate at all, is perhaps the outstanding thing in the Book of Mormon, Everything revolves 242 around this point. It is of a piece with the Record itself. All the writers of the volume make this a central point in their work. All the prophets before Christ looked forward to his coming, as all those after him looked back to his advent. But the main thing about Christ, to them, was the fact of his redemption. In it they took glory; of it they were never tired of speaking and writing. It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that in the Nephite Record we get a more substantial feeling as to another life than even in the pages of the New Testament. That is the first thing we get?an idea and feeling that heaven is a reality and not a "fabrication," an escape from disagreeable things here, as some have tried to make out after ee their ignorance on the point. A second thing me get from the Book of Mormon is a deep feeling concerning the resurrection from the dead. To the Nephite prophets heaven was not a place where disembodied spirits lived an inactive life. They believed in a literal raising of the body. The quotation already given from Alma, in another lesson, shows ' this. Their heaven, therefore, was in reality but a continuation of this life?except that there man would be immortal, whereas here he is subject to death. As an instance of this literalness we have, in addition to the Christ of the Nephite appearances, the case of Moroni; and here we touch the times of this heavenly messenger and also the times of Joseph Smith ?thus connecting two important dispensations. The Moroni of the Book of Mormon was a man, in no essential sense different from his contemporaries. He was born as they were; he ate, wore clothing, and slept much as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they did; he took up arms against enemies, as they did, and led hosts to battle; he spoke and wrote the language of his people; and finally he died after the fashion of his people, although we do not know when or how. But the Moroni that Joseph Smith knew was different. In what respects? Not in his mental and spiritual qualities, it would appear. For he manifested about the same interest in human welfare that he had done in his mortal body. He was extremely patient with the boy Joseph; he was anxious over him, to see that he had the necessary instructions for his work; and, although he reproved him on occasions and punished him for his transgressions, yet he exhibited great love and compassion for him. But he was different in his tabernacle. That was now immortal, incapable any more of death and suffering. Moreover, it could appear and disappear at a moment's notice, as we Saw on the first visit Joseph made to the hill Cumorah. And then, too, it was like our sound waves, the ones that carry into our radios; what we know as lumber and brick and stone was no hindrance at all to the resurrected Moroni, any more than they were to our Savior in Palestine after his resurrection. He appeared to the disciples when they were in the house, the 'doors being shut." So Moroni did to the young Prophet on the twenty-first of September, 1823. If then, we would ask to know something about the condition of those who are raised from the dead, our answer is clearer through what we have in connection with the Book of Mormon than it is from any other source that antedates that Record.: LESSON DEPARTMENT A third point about heaven that we get from the Book of Mormon coincides with what we get from the Gospels. It is that "the meek shall inherit the earth." Nor does the Book of Mormon add anything of importance to what Jesus said to the Jews and to the Nephites about the meek. But the Mormon Prophet, building on the foundation of the Book of Mormon, makes some very illuminating comments in_ revelations which he received after those connected with the Nephite Record. The earth was created for man. It is to be his permanent home. But, as there is to be a new man, just so is there to be a new earth for the abode of the new man. That also is the doctrine of John the Revelator, in the twenty-first chapter of "Revelations" (verse 1): "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea." The Prophet tells us not a few things about the conditions under which we shall live hereafter. For one thing, family ties will continue there?provided arrangements have been made before then. That means love, the most fruitful source of joy on the earth. "Would you think it strange," he said once in Nauvoo Vol. V, History of the Church, pp. 361-2, "if I relate what I have seen in vision in relation to this interesting theme? Those who have died in Jesus Christ may expect to enter into all that fruition of joy when they come forth, which they possessed or anticipated here. So plain was the vision, that I actually saw men, before they had ascended from the tomb, as though they were getting up slowly. They took each other by the hand and said to each other, 'My father, my son, my mother, 243 my daughter, my brother, my sister'. And, for another thing, we shall progress eternally in the hereafter, much as we might here if we were permitted to live and enjoy our powers. That is far preferable to the old sectarian notion that we would spend our time in heaven singing. Psalms before the great white throne. Infinite possibilities will be open to us for the development of the powers for good which we possessed on the earth in our mortal bodies. And, for still another thing, there are different degrees of glory there to match the different capacities for progress and enjoyment and character in this life. These fall into three groups?the celestial, the terrestrial, and the telestial. This is a distinct advance over the notion that still prevails in the Christian churches that differences are all obliterated in heaven?even differences between those who were sinners and saints here. The "Mormon" doctrine on this subject is expressed in the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. These views, and others we have no space for in these lessons, were revealed to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, through his spiritual contacts ?contacts that included, not only such personages as Moroni, John the Baptist, Moses, Elijah, the ancient apostles, Peter, James, and John, but also God the Father and Jesus Christ the Son. And _ that these spiritual contacts gave him positive and clear ideas, and deep conviction, on the subject, is evident from the following quotation? which forms a fitting conclusion for the present series of lessons on the Book of Mormon: "More painful to me are the thoughts of annihilation than death. If I have no 244 expectation of seeing my father, mother, brothers, sisters, and friends, my heart would burst, and I should go down to my grave. The expectation of seeing my friends in the morning of the resurrection cheers my soul and makes me bear up against the evils of life. It is like their taking a long journey, and on their return we meet them with increased joy. "God has revealed his son from the heavens and the doctrines of the resurrection also; and we have a knowledge that those we bury here God will bring up again, clothed upon and quickened by the Spirit of the great God; and what mattereth it whether we lay them down, or we lay down with them, when we can keep them no longer? Let these truths sink down in our hearts, that we may even here begin to enjoy that which shall be in full hereafter. "Hosanna, hosanna, hosanna to Almighty God, that rays of light begin to burst forth upon us even now. I cannot find words in which to express myself." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 362.) Questions 1. State briefly the main ideas considered here from the Book of Mormon concerning (a) the character RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of God as relates to his treatment of sinners in hell, (b) the immortality of man, and (c) man's duties here and now. 2. Show, from the testimony of the Book of Mormon and that also of the eleven witnesses to its divine origin, that it is more reasonable to believe that Joseph Smith was inspired than that he made up all these ideas. 3. What was once the test of a witness? What is that test now? Which appeals to you as the more reasonable? Why? 4. State the additions which the modern Prophet made to the ideas of the hereafter as given in the Book of Mormon. Give the substance of the quotation from the Prophet Joseph. 5. What has impressed you most in this course in the Book of Mormon? In what ways, if any, has your testimony to spiritual truth been increased? Teachers' Topic Watchword: this house." ?Luke 10:5. Text: is perfect."?Matthew 5:48. From the earliest Biblical times, the perfection of the Father has been held up as an example for his children to follow. "And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the Lord appeared to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God: walk before me, and be thou perfect."? Genesis 17:1. "And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, "Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy: for I "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven the Lord your God am holy.'?Lev. 19 1-2, Likewise the apostles of the meridian dispensation supported the teachings of the Master in enjoining perfection as the ultimate attainments of the disciples. The apostle Paul, in his letter to the Colossians speaks of, Christ: "Whom we preach, warning every man, and teaching every man in all wisdom; that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus."?Col. 1:28. The Apostle James also advises: "But let patience have her perfect LESSON DEPARTMENT work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing."?James 1: 4, Many there are who become so engrossed in the glitter and glamor of worldly things, that they fail to comprehend the big purpose of life. Their time and effort are given in seeking vain desires and passing pleasures, rather than seeking to obtain eternal happiness by striving to live the perfect law of liberty. There are others, however, who are asking, What is the purpose of life? And are seeking for something that will give joy and satisfaction to their souls. The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches that the purpose of life is to grow and develop physically, mentally and spiritually in such a way as to gain eternal progression. Just how we progress in life hereafter will depend on how our earthly life has been spent. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, tells us that: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. "And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come."'??Doctrine and Covenants 130:18-19., The gospel is a perfect religion, a perfect law of liberty, of peace, of righteousness, and if we comply with the admonition given in the text we would interpret life according 245 to the laws and doctrines of the gospel, and would live completely, consistently, and in harmony with its teachings. Is there any better opportunity given than that of the Relief Society Teacher, to strive for and to gain a perfect life, to be an ambassador of Christ, to share in the joys and sorrows, to radiate peace, happiness and good cheer, and to love all mankind? Christ never asked anything of his children that He did not prepare the way for them to fulfil all requirements. Much has been given, and much is expected. Paul says: "And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; "For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: "Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ."?Ephesians *4:11-13. May we express the same desire in our hearts for you in your work, as did Paul in earlier times: "Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever."?Hebrews 13:20-21. Blossom Time By Ella J. Coulam. Of all the joys of springtime That fill me with delight, It is the joy of blossom-time With petals pink and white. They flirt with busy humming birds And coax the honey bees, And look like falling snowflakes As they flutter from the trees. They breathe a wondrous message Of a harvest rich and grand? A promise of a bounteous crop Throughout the verdant land. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature (Third Week in June) Tue Short Story IN UTAH* When Hawthorne was winning favor with his "Scarlet Letter," and the first act of the golden drama in California that was to introduce Bret Harte as one of its heroes was being enacted, the territory of Deseret was too busy wresting food from the soil and planning ways to get its new citizens across the Great Plains and the Rocky Mountains to have any time for creative writing. But in 1872, when Salt Lake was something of a city and there were growing villages near the mouth of almost every canyon in Utah, the women of the Church knew that the day of the arts was soon to come. The "Woman's Exponent" was established and was at that time the only women's paper between Boston and the Pacific coast. Although not owned and controlled by the Relief Society, "The Exponent" was from the first the accredited organ of that *Author's apology: The material for this lesson is so vast and there are so many people who are so well acquainted with it that I write this lesson with considerable hesitation. Because of my being away from Utah, I have not been able to do the research that I should like to do. Neither have I been able to keep as closely in touch with the present day writers as I should wish. The few opinions expressed are original with me, and I hope that there will be much disagreement with them as well as a little agreement. Many names are omitted that are worthy to be included, but there was not space for every one. I wish to thank here the numerous persons who have been so kind in helping me gather the material for: this lesson, and I am particularly indebted to Mrs. Vesta P. Crawford, who spent a great deal of time among the faded files of magazines from "Peep O Day" on down to the present day magazines. Organization. It appeared twice a month and Louisa L. Greene was its editor. The people who read its eight pages quarto paid two dollars a year for it, and thoroughly agreed with its sentiment: "It is better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others." News notes, Relief Society notes, articles on fashion, cooking, babies, and poetry appeared, but there was no pen lifted to tell in prose the exciting sagas of the Seventies. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, in 1875, became associate editor, and in 1877 editor. The Woman's Exponent continued under her management and editorship for forty years. An early short story appearing in its columns was by Hannah T. King, an English lady of literary taste and talent. The story was entitled, "Three Scenes in the History of a Diamond Necklace," a story of Hortense Beauharnais and Napoleon. Mrs. King published other stories, mostly of historic nature, in this paper, while the editor, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, published several under the nom de plume of Blanch Beechwood. "Hepzibah,' a New England story, and "In Rural England," a political story, were considered 'by the author her best stories. Augusta Joyce Crocheron contributed a number of pioneer stories, and "Angelina," a story by W. Crouch, appeared in an early issue. The narrative writings by Eliza R. Snow and Helen Marr Whitney might be classed among the early short stories as they were true to form, but not fiction. Lu Dalton, M. A. Y, Greenhalgh, and Josephine Spencer, also contributed stories to the Exponent. LESSON DEPARTMENT In 1879 Junius F. Wells founded and edited the Contributor. This was the official organ of the Y. M. M. I. A. On its frontispiece was written, "Let No Man Despise Thy Youth." But the Contributor did not at first demand short stories. Orson F. Whitney, called by Tullidge the "Byron of Mormondom," wrote poems and essays, and '""Amethyst" wrote articles on the ideal woman. Emmeline B, Wells and Susa Young Gates contributed, and with them there grew much interest in prose tales. The Contributor became the Era in 1897, and two-part stories were all the fashion. A little later William A. Morton and Nephi Anderson were chief among the story tellers. But that is getting ahead of the history of the short story in Utah. Prior to this, Mrs. Gates had written stories for the Juvenile Instructor and the Exponent, and her "John Stevens' Courtship" had appeared as a serial in the Contributor, and had been eagerly read. In 1889 Susa Young Gates was made editor of the Young Woman's Journal. Because no magazine could be edited by Mrs. Gates without fiction, and because people were demanding fiction, short stories became numerous in the new periodical. Writers, however, were not so numerous then as now. Louisa L. Greene (now Mrs. Richards) wrote under the name of Lula, and Emmeline B. Wells' name was sometimes seen in the prose section. The first number of the Young Woman's Journal, October, 1889, contained the following short stories: "Whatsoever a Man Soweth," by "Homespun;" "A Great Navigator's First Love," by M. A. Y. Greenhalgh; "Spiritualism, or What Became of Murphy," by Ellen L. Jakeman. Ellen L. Jakeman, one of the popular early writers, was an artist 247 and a realist. Her style was simple and she wrote of the people she knew best. Her "We Tread the Dust" was one of her first stories to appear in the Journal. It began: "Mrs. Vernon was thirty, married, and the mother of five children. She was a true believer in "'Woman's Rights'?and wrongs. ' She had long ago lost all that "delicacy of refinement' that make woman lovable?at least all that could be scrubbed off by coming in contact with dirty floors, pots and kettles, to say nothing of mending old trousers. * * * She did the cooking, washing, scrubbing, and all the endless array of small matters that festoon like cobwebs the tender name of home." There is something of the French grace and simplicity of style in Mrs. Jakeman's opening paragraph and one wonders how far she would have gone in her art if she had allowed it to absorb her life and had sought other fields. The story goes on with an account of Mrs. Vernon's labors? getting children ready for school, cooking, milking?and her husband's criticism and indifference to her. There is a stormy scene in which they quarrel and the wife goes out to hunt her husband. He is found rehearsing the love scene in an amateur play, and instead of forgiving him, she becomes more angry. In the end they promise to make allowances for each other. It is a story of real life with a triangle of husband, wife, and poverty, instead of the usual lover. Alongside of the Church magazines there was steady, though not so hardy, growth of periodicals published independently and more literary in nature. There was Peep O Day as early as 1864. It was an expensive one, seven dollars a year, and one wonders that it had any 248 subscribers. Messrs. Harrison and Tullidge were the editors and the men had a hard time of it, for Utah could not then (nor does it yet) support a purely literary magazine. Editor Tullidge was one of the chief contributors. He was well-read and had some style. Some of his stories were short, but for the most part he wrote long stories with ancient and foreign settings. The Deseret News and the Young Woman's Journal have been strong factors in the encouragement of short story writing by their annual offer of prizes for the best short story for their Christmas issues. Hundreds of very creditable stories have been received and the selected prize stories have always shown fine workmanship, Prominent among these favored writers is the late Edith Ellerbeck Reid, who not only received the prize three times but made an enviable name for herself as a writer of stories for many popular magazines. She also wrote three of the stories of the Blue Bonnet series, and was asked by the publishers to complete the second book as the originator died before that one was finished. Mona Wilcox Cannon also was one of the prize winners and has written many pretty stories for other magazines. Among the well known story writers during the time of these prize stories were Josephine Spencer, Kate Thomas, Annie Pike Greenwood, Susa Talmage, Christine D. Young. There were three colleges in Utah now and hosts of young people going away to school, and people were beginning to pay more attention to literature and to the creating of it. Nephi Anderson, a gifted writer of the Church, wrote his "Piney Ridge Cottage," one of the first of the modern Utah short stories. It was serialized, but in nature it was more of a short story than a novel. It RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was a tale of simple, rustic people, and it -was typical of much of life within the Church. Nephi Anderson also had other gifts?versatility and a touch of mysticism?and his name must go in Utah's hall of fame. N. L. Nelson was another writer who sometimes turned to the story. One of his last ones to appear in the church periodicals was "Trails of Timpanogos" and into it Mr. Nelson put much of his love for Utah's mountains. For every short story writer in the earlier days of the Church, there are a dozen or more today. Because of the fact that they write for the Church periodicals?magazines with necessarily a definite editorial policy ?their themes are somewhat alike and are apt to have a didactic tone. This later characteristic is not always a necessary one, for all of the Church magazines occasionally carry stories with this element lacking. For a long time two women have been preeminent in the field. Mrs. Elsie Chamberlain Carroll now teaches at the Young University, where she was a student, and the appearance of one of her stories in "The Era" or 'Relief Society Magazine" is a happy event. Her writing is restrained, is confined usually to the scenes of her life? small towns and University days? and she strives faithfully to reproduce the characters and emotions she has witnessed. In her delicacy and grace of style and treatment and in her choice of native characters, she is not unlike 'Sarah Orne Jewett. The second writer, Mrs. Ivy Williams Stone of Ogden, is more daring and original in her themes and in her style. She is interested in epic themes and she likes to write of the older West and of pioneer life. Both of these women have been kind LESSON DEPARTMENT enough to write briefly of their lives and ambitions. Mrs. Carroll says: "The first money I ever received for a story was a twenty-five dollar prize offered for a Christmas story by the "Young Woman's Journal." I wrote a story, "The Norrisville Christmas Tree," but felt that it was not good enough to submit. My husband (this was the year after we were married) retrieved the story from the waste-basket unknown to me, copied it, and sent it in. My winning was a happy surprise. "Trying to write has been a worthwhile hobby to me. It has served as an outlet for my feelings, and as means for keeping my mind busy and interested when I have been passing through sorrow, as my natural inclination has been to brood and suffer." "Her Phantom Family, published in the "Relief Society Magazine" for December, 1931, was suggested by two things, she says: "I heard of a lady in a neighboring town who had a beautiful home but lived in the basement, keeping the main part of the house as a sort of plaything. That was one part of the idea. The other came out of a first hand knowledge that when one has lost a dear one it is hard to fight the temptation to shut one's self away with one's sorrow and memories and ignore the life of actuality with its opportunities of service." Mrs. Stone wrote: "I was born in Peterson, Utah, in 1885. A healthy body, a good library and an early desire to write are the outstanding memories of my childhood. High school education was secured at quite a personal sacrifice, as my father had died, leaving my mother with several small children. After leaving school, I secured the clerkship of the Ogden City School Board, being the first woman in Utah to hold such a position. I 249 served as secretary of the Utah Educational Association for one year. After my younger brother and sister were well established, I resigned my work and married. Mr. Stone and I have had seven children?four of whom still survive. I do housework the greater part of each day, but while my hands are busy with mechanical tasks, my brain is constantly shaping new situations, molding new characters, or developing a new plot. I cannot remember a time when I did not have a great urge to write; but I did not take myself seriously until I had three children. Now I frequently run to the typewriter to jot down an idea while flour is: evident upon my hands." Mrs. Stone was asked to name her two favorite stories and her answer was, "Children of Toil," a story from the "Young Woman's Journal." It tells of life on a dry farm and was inspired by the women she saw toiling there. Her second choice is "Spawners" of the "Improvement Era" for November, 1929. This story came as an aftermath to the great flood in northern Utah. Of the plot itself the author says: "One farmer, who had built upon his father's old homestead, could not be persuaded to move away from the mouth of the little canyon, down which the flood had spent its greatest fury. He rebuilt his home in the same draw, and like the salmon who return to their native hatching place to spawn, he is willing to face what God may care to send." Sophy Valentine, Annie Pike Greenwood, Ida Stewart Peay, Katharine C. McKay, Elsie Talmage Brandley, Ruth Moench Bell, Olive M. Nicholes, Annie D. Palmer and a number of others have all helped to raise the standard of the short story in the Church periodicals and keep the art alive. Too, 250 there are numerous younger writers whose names are beginning to appear in the magazines, but whose work cannot yet be judged. Mrs. Palmer states that the need to earn money has always kept her from the accomplishment she has longed for in the literary field. Always her path has been diverted from what she wanted to do, by the what was necessary to be done. School teaching was not to her liking yet it was her occupation for twenty years; sewing was not attractive, but she made dresses and trimmed hats to earn money; salesmanship had little appeal, but there was a job in the co-op store, so she sold dry goods, groceries, and horseshoe nails; social work was not known to her until a call came from church leaders, and her life's work swung into "Helping People Out of Trouble." In between she has found untold joy in the things her pen has produced ? poems, short stories and drama. She still cherishes a hope for more time sometime to devote to the thing that is her hobby. Men writers? The last decade has seen only one man prominent in the short story field. He is Harrison R. Merrill who is now editor of "The Era." Mr. Merrill is a journalist first, but his stories for boys?particularly his athletic tales of high school and college, have won him a wide following. In addition Mr. Merrill is also a poet. There have been, of course, other writers, but few who have published more than one or two stories. The new "Era" carries a number of men writers. Outside of the church group, there are several men who have won national distinction. Among these are Bernard DeVoto, John Held, the cartoonist, John Browning, Frank RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Roberts from Idaho, who has won much renown as a writer of western stories, and Raymond Berry from Provo. Bob Ellerbeck, Mrs. Morris Ritchie, and Mrs. C. E, Richards have also won recognition outside the state. As yet no great master of the short story has come out of Utah. We are still waiting for a Hawthorne who can depict our inner life, a Harte who will make our unique characters famous and who will make the world laugh and weep over our sagas, a Tolstoy who will show our struggles for a higher life, or a Lagerlof who will write our legends and preserve the stories and characteristics of our country people. And we have had no Mark Twain to chronicle our humor. There is material in abundance and the person who uses it must be a native of our mountains and deserts. Such a person may already be writing or he may be yet unborn, but the day is not far distant when he will begin his work. In the meantime the Church magazines are more and more fostering literary talent. The new "Era" gives many opportunities for young people who are willing to experiment, and the "Relief Society Magazine" offers place for stories of a riper philosophy. And there are two magazines using juvenile stories. The material is here, asking for an interpreter. To the teacher: Since this is the last lesson on the short story, many teachers will prefer to use the time for an expression of their own ideas, but a few suggestions are offered. 1. Choose one of Mrs. Stone's favorite stories for reading or re-telling, or Mrs. Carroll's "Phantom Family." 2. Select one of Ellen Jakeman's stories from some of the old periLESSON DEPARTMENT odicals and have it read. (Another writer may be substituted.) 3. Select for reading or retelling one or more stories that you have particularly liked in some of the recent issues of the "Relief Society Magazine." 4. Discuss the sources of story 251 material in the history of your town or in the state. 5. Some of the class members may have written stories., Have them read them in class and lead in the discussion. 6. Honor a short story writer who may be living in your ward or stake. Social Service (Fourth Week in June) PERSONALITY STUDY: CUSTOM, CONFLICT AND SOCIAL PROGRESS. (Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 238-255, 279-281, 290-292.) Is progress real? In what does it consist? Do we genuinely believe in eternal progress?the kind that insists that this life is part of eternity? What are some of the essential attitudes and habits with which we need to be concerned in order to be properly designated as progressive in the best sense of the word? Is social as well as individual progress a possibility and if so how widespread must it be in order to be substantial? There are some who would say that society has made no real progress because they say man is equipped much the same biologically as he was thousands of years ago. They are among those who confidently repeat the time-worn saying that "human nature never changes." In a previous lesson (See Magazine for December, 1930, page 696) it was pointed out that our biologically transmitted human nature is no more significantly human nature than the part which comes to us as a social heritage or the parts that are susceptible to change. Certainly some parts of human nature and many seemingly fixed social customs and traditions are subject to change and improvement. We are quite ready to admit that. The conception of a possible orderly development of society which man can in some measure consciously control is comparatively new. Even at the present time intelligent notions along this line are none too widespread. For the most part as Robinson says in his Mind in The Making: "We still assume that received doctrinas represent the secure conclusions of mankind, and that current institutions represent the approved results of much experiment in the past, which it would be worse than futile to repeat. * * * We resent the imputation that things are not going, on the whole, pretty well, and find excuses for turning our backs on disconcerting and puzzling facts. * * * (We) fail to see that almost all the things that we prize today represent revolts against tradition, and were in their beginnings what seemed to be shocking divergencies from current beliefs and practices." (Pp. 129-130, 215.) While we have cause to appreciate very much our great five-fold social inheritance outlined in the Magazine for November, 1931, p. 665, it would be folly not to recognize that as good as these inheritances from the past are, they are still in the making. The truly enlightened and progressive modern person cannot be satisfied with a reconstruction of modern social institutions strictly according to some alleged primitive pattern. There is ever a need for improvement?for taking into consideration the changed conditions of today. As Lowell says: "New occasions teach new duties: Time makes ancient good uncouth; They must upward still and onward, Who would keep abreast of Truth." A fundamental teaching of the Church is that new revelations are continually necessary for its well being. There can be no "true and living church" which does not "keep abreast of Truth" and show appropriate signs of life. Similar signs of real progress should characterize other social institutions,: We need to be sufficiently impressed with the fact that very many of our customs and traditions have started somewhere in the obscure and unenlightened past and _ that many circumstances have tended to prevent their being improved much since they were started. Most societies are quite thoroughly customridden and all sorts of superstitions and absurd traditions are accepted and ignorantly passed on to the next generation. The mere age and general social acceptance of forms of behavior and ideas handed down from the past, gives them with many people, a tremendous prestige. They do not have the disposition nor the courage to examine into their merits, to offer constructive criticisms, or to propose any improvements. It seems that society insists very strongly on conformity to standards derived from the past. It is a special virtue to defend these standards and to brand their critics as public enemies. Even the most intelligent criticism that may be offered with the best of intentions and which if accepted would probably lead to very good social consequences is seldom well received. It is promptly denounced as mere worthless faultRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE finding. The reputations of the prophets Amos and Jeremiah are none too good with us even today, for it is so easy for us to imagine them as men who would criticize the practices of our present society. The speaker who desires social approval when he tells of their great messages, takes care to make little or no reference to their application to our present situation. In short, we have little use for competent and courageous critics of our own social order. We can almost be depended upon to treat them with scorn and with severe disciplinary measures of repression.. But society may, to some extent, be justified in its conservative tendencies. Most would-be critics of social customs do not have enough true insight into the matters they seem so ready to set at rights. It is surprisingly easy to set up in the fault-finding business so far as being able to see defects is concerned. Many critics do not take a sobering comprehensive view of themselves before they rush forward with criticisms of some of their fellows or of society at large. (Matt. 7:3-5.) Many of them are to be properly classed as mere irresponsible cynics. Much of what they offer is not the result of straight or sound thinking, but rather of their tendencies to engage in comfortable day-dreams of little practical value. During recent years especially, we have had sweeping criticisms offered reflecting surprisingly little social insight but born prematurely as the direct consequence of vague feelings of social unrest. Certainly society must protect itself against such critics as those mentioned in the above paragraph. However, we would no doubt in the end be much better off if we could learn to recognize and encourage the non-conformist who really has suLESSON DEPARTMENT perior insight and practical ability as well as good intentions. Society should get rid of its unworthy conceptions of authority and its tendencies to unduly restrain individual initiative. The old idea of authority was associated with arbitrariness, with unjust practices, and with little or no recognition of other individuals as being at least potentially free and eternal beings of equal importance with those who temporarily were in a position to exercise the so-called authority. Study very carefully Doc. And Cov. 121:34-44 and try to let it help you enlarge your conception of the nature of authority and the responsibility necessarily involved in its proper exercise. Then read section 58, verses 26 to 29 inclusive, with the purpose of gaining an appreciation of the important place of worthwhile individual initiative in any progressive society. Here we have social ideals set up for us which if practiced would operate to bring about most profound changes for the better in the lives of all of us. If you have not caught the great significance of these passages it may repay you to read them over again somewhat more carefully. Are not these things at least equally as important as other parts of our Gospel that receive far more emphasis? Now let us turn to a brief consideration of social conflict. Its frequency if not its desirability has been implied in much of the above discussion, and Overstreet discusses this phase of our subject at some length. No doubt we are able to imagine a society wherein conflict has little or no place at all but the social order that we actually know about is certainly characterized by an appreciable amount of unrest, social friction, crises of various kinds, and even war, Should the effort be to do away 253 with as much conflict as possible? To what extent, if any, can you agree with the statement sometimes made that "all conflict is good?" Can you point out examples of fruitless industrial conflicts, race conflicts, religious conflicts, family quarrels, etc.? Under what circumstances would you say that conflict may be really intelligent? What are some of our immediate problems in relation to social conflicts? Considerable help may be had on most of the above questions if the designated part of our text for this lesson is read carefully. In conclusion may we emphasize the need of striving to extend our understanding and sympathy so as to include other peoples and nationalities with whom we might otherwise find ourselves in unwholesome opposition. We should furthermore develop toward them the disposition and the means to cooperate wholeheartedly for the common good. In our present social arrangements there are far too few influences making for a truly large group consciousness and human brotherhood. But we need not be discouraged, for although substantial social progress takes place very slowly we can see real signs of mankind's becoming more civilized?signs more significant than those so frequently mentioned that have come as a result of the application of the physical sciences. The average man in some societies is able to live a richer and fuller life than ever before and these blessings are being gradually achieved in ever wider circles. Progress is real but we had better not depend upon its taking place in some wholly mysterious or automatic way. What we do or do not do individually and cooperatively really does matter and it is up to us now to assume the risks involved and to carry on. 254 A Few Possible Problems for Discussion 1. Briefly answer in your own way, each of the questions asked in the first paragraph of this lesson. Try to support each answer with reasons or evidences. 2. How would you refute the statement that human nature never changes? Make statements about our five-fold social inheritance and show how the reality of these different inheritances must be given due consideration by anyone who would properly answer the question as to whether or not mankind is becoming more civilized. 3. Discuss the extracts given in the lesson taken from Robinson's Mind in the Making. 4. Robinson says we resent the imputation that all is not well in our society. The Book of Mormon (See II Nephi 28:21) condemns the leader who in order to stand well with the group lulls them into "carnal security" saying, "all is well in Zion," etc., when in reality there is a need of crying repentance. What would you say about the social insight of the writer of this part of the Book of Mormon in terms of our lesson? 5. Read important parts of the messages of Amos and Jeremiah that probably would not be well received by us because of our deficiencies and our unwillingness to accept even helpful criticism. 6. Consider carefully the definitions of the words "criticize" and "appreciate" and show how these words are quite closely related. Is it probable that many so-called negative criticisms if properly heeded would be found to be very helpful? Give reasons to support your answer. What are the necessary qualifications of a good critic? 7. Discuss fully Doc. And Cov. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 121:34-44. What parts of this quotation seem most important to you? Least heeded by those concerned? Discuss Doc. And Cov, 58:26-29. Recite verse 27 from memory and lead the class in a concert recitation of the same. Have several members tell why this extract seems especially important to them? 8. Reflect in a short discussion, Overstreets' ideas about debating. To what extent do you agree with him? 9. A successful school administrator who has unusual ability in handling conflicts that frequently arise, says that when one party to a potential dispute has his fighting togs on and shows evidence of anger it is a good time for the other party to keep cool and not provoke further anger. What do you think of this generalization? Have you recently put it into practice to the advantage of those concerned? By any chance did it ever prove to be poor advice to follow? 10. Expand rather fully on this short text from; Woodrow Wilson: "The points on which we agree are many." Mention a number of "our more civilized techniques" making for social progress. 11. Professor John Dewey has given us two important standards for judging the value of educational activities: (1) To what extent have they stimulated desires for continued growth? (2) To what extent have they furnished the necessary basis upon which further development may take place? With these standards in mind what would you say about the success of this social service course with you? What new desires have these lessons given you? What plans do you have for further personal development along the lines suggested by the lessons? Be specific. Spring?A Fantasy By Ezra J. Poulsen Spring is a gay lass. She has just come tripping back with more loveliness than ever. Smiles and coy glances wreathed her face, while the delicate beauty of a thousand blended colors radiated from her filmy garments as she passed up the street; and all the children ran out to meet her. Somehow the merry old earth seems born anew with Spring here. This sprightly maiden with blossoms in her hair greets old and young alike with such bewitching tenderness that everyone is made happy. She goes by the sleeping gardens and awakens them with the touch of her magic wand;: from the quaint basket on her arm she releases flocks of joyous birds, which circle around her and disappear among the trees, singing praises to their queen. Everywhere the little fountains bow their heads in homage. At the farther end of the street, where the houses seem to huddle cheerlessly, Spring hesitates. Her gay smile mellows into an expression of loving sympathy, while the shadows slink away. From the dull windows, and from the drab yards troops of pinched faces turn toward her with renewed hope, and many thin little arms are extended in pleading welcome. Has Spring brought blessings to these? She has. At the first moment of her approach she was welcomed with emotions too deep for words. Then a long wondering murmur broke the stillness, an exclamation blended of laughter and tears; and many eager feet hurried toward her. The disillusioned men, the sadfaced women, the hopeful children, all know she brings them a gift. Since Spring has a heart of charity, tears as clear as drops of morning dew glistened in her blue eyes when she heard that some had been cold, and others had been sick. But she smiled again, and spoke cheerfully to everyone. Then, because she is the incarnation of love and life, she scattered her flowers more profusely than ever, and bade her birds sing their most beautiful songs. Into the faces of the children she put color and gaiety. Spring is a welcome lass. She is the carrier of new hopes and bright dreams. She is the harbinger of Easter, and the sweet-faced messenger of Him who is the resurrection and the life. For Spring Decorating BENNETT'S WALL PAPERS EXCLUSIVE 1932 Designs Beautiful Patterns and Textures For Every Room BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. 61-65 West First South Salt Lake City SEE THE NEW EUREKA VACUUM CLEANER NEW?MODERN?BEAUTIFUL With Full Floating Brush, Beautiful Red Bag and 14 Other Major Improvements This super-powered Eureka De Luxe cleans deeply, swiftly and thoroughly?removing all deeply embedded, stubborn dirt by "High Vacuum"?the identical cleaning principle of all costly installed systems built into large buildings and hotels. The new "full floating' brush automatically removes all lint, hair and other surface litter. $5.00 Down Balance on Easy Terms Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices Open Daily?9 a. M. To 5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Utah's Summer School of Service Having the interests and desires of the people at heart, the UNIVERSITY OF UTAH has planned an exceptionally attractive 1932 Summer School. In addition to an excellent selection of general collegiate courses and teacher training work there will be courses of special interest to parents and others interested in the relationship of individuals to the schools. The well-trained University staff (mostly department heads) will be supplemented by the following carefully chosen, distinguished educational specialists: Dr. Henry H. Bill, Superintendent of Dr. Joseph A. Leighton, Professor of Schools, Lexington, Kentucky. Dr. S. L. Pressey, Professor of Educational Psychology, Ohio State University. Mrs. Arthur C. Watkins, Secretary, Educational Division, National Congress of Philosophy, Ohio State University. Dr. Obed S. Johnson, Professor of Religious Education, Wabash College, Indiana. Dr. E. M. Costigan, Associate Professor The curriculum will be especially broad for a summer school, and everyone knows of the high standard work done at the State's highest institution of learning. This summer there will be an exceptionally strong series of lectures and conferences held daily, on various topics, some of which will be on character education, social conExceptional Advantages for Study Are Available in Salt Lake City ONE TERM OF SIX WEEKS?JUNE 13 TO JULY 23 Complete Catalogue Will Appear April 1. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Parents and Teachers, Washington, D. C. BROAD CURRICULUM ditions and other topics of vital interest. Was. 550 of History, University of Idaho. HIGH STANDARDS Salt Lake City, Utah CONSIDER LIFE INSURANCE AS AN OLD-AGE INCOME INVESTMENT. 1. By contract, you are guaranteed a given yearly income at a given age, with savings of a definite amount. You know exactly how much to save each month to accumulate a definitely known sum at a definite age. Life Insurance Is Definite 2. A Beneficial Life investment contract is never called. Never runs out until the maturity date. It is always worth more tomorrow than today. In reinvesting all the hazards or mistakes must be faced. The more reinvestments, the greater chance of error. Eliminates Re-investment 3. Investments in Life Insurance have alone met every test of security while every other form of investment has become impaired. We are not old today?but in ten or twenty years we shall want our investments to mature as outlined and be as good and secure as they are today. Absolute Safety 4. A Beneficial contract guarantees to pay 100 cents on the dollar. Net cash when the day of retirement comes. Too many men face old age because their "good investments" of thirty years ago cannot be turned into cash today. Guaranteed Cash Liquidation 5. All Beneficial contracts share in the net earnings of the company. This in addition to guaranteed compound interest on your investment. A Beneficial Savings Contract taken today, planned to accumulate, say $5,000, over a 20-year. Period?will pay $5,000?should you die tomorrow. Interest and Dividends Added Life Insurance is the one investment plan which guarantees the saving period. Call for a Beneficial representative who will be pleased to explain further details of this wonderful plan. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Home Office: Salt Lake City HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 