Mother's Aid By Ruth McQuarrie Penrose Director Mothers' Aid, Salt Lake County HE welfare of children is the basic objective of all social legislation. However, until recent years, laws pertaining especially to children provided only for institutional care and correction of the homeless and delinquent child. Very little attention was given to the preventive field until the public became aware of some of the causes of the ever-increasing evils of dependency and delinquency. Efforts were made to discover ways and means to meet the situation. Juvenile Courts, Mother's Congress, Hull House and other interested groups made extensive investigations. It was found that many widowed mothers left with young children and no means of support were often obliged to leave their families unsupervised to go out and earn a meager living. These mothers resided in crowded and undesirable districts where rent was cheap. Wages to unskilled workers were inadequate. This losing economic battle resulted in broken health, and often in the death of such mothers. These situations accounted in a measure for the everincreasing number of dependent children. N_ 1909, President Theodore Roosevelt called the first White House Conference on the care of the dependent child. The outgrowth of this first conference was that Mothers' Assistance laws were enacted in many states, and the United States Children's Bureau was established. The assembled delegates at that first conference concluded that the welfare of a state depends upon the quality of its citizens; and that "homemade" children cared for by their own mothers have a better chance to become healthy normal citizens. Home life being the finest product of civilization, it thereby becomes the duty of the state to conserve the home as its most valuable asset whenever factors other than the improper guardianship of the parent threaten its destruction. Aid for children in their own homes is not only a welfare measure but an economic one also, as it has been proven that it is actually cheaper in dollars and cents to maintain children in their own homes than to support them in institutions. Similar conferences have been called every ten years by the President of the United States. In 1919, President Woodrow Wilson called the second White House Conference which resulted in expanding and improving mothers' assistance laws throughout the country. In 1929, President Herbert Hoover called the third conference, known as the "White House Conference on Child Health and Protection" which convened in 1930. "The Children's Charter' came out of this third conference, also "findings" and "recommendation" which were widely studied. This conference together with the subsequent economic depression spurred greater action in the preventive field and more far reaching aid for the nation's children. MOTHERS' AID 41 MOTHERS' AID IN UTAH UBLIC Support of Dependent Widowed Mothers, commonly known as the "Widow's Pension Law" was passed by the Utah State Legislature in 1913. At first the Juvenile Court administered this law; later the responsibility of administration was transferred to the Board of County Commissioners. This law has been amended several times. In 1933 it was made definitely a Mothers' Aid Law. The definition of "widow" was changed from ''widowed by death" to a Mother who has been left with young children and no means of support regardless of the cause. If the father be dead, has deserted, been divorced or is incapacitated to earn a living, and is in a mental, physical or penal institution, the mother is eligible for this aid to support her young children. The Mother's Aid Law is classed with the child welfare group of laws and is in the preventive field—aiming to prevent children, thus aided, from becoming delinquent by keeping the mother at home with her children while they are very young. The Social Security Act in Title Four is extending and strengthening the aid to dependent children in every state and will, when a state qualifies for such aid, take the place of the mothers' aid law and will be termed "Aid to dependent children." "PUBLIC AID TO DEPENDENT CHILDREN" Title Four of the Social Security Act authorizes federal financial assistance to States for care of their needy dependent children. A state, in order to qualify for such federal aid must submit a plan of child-care to be approved by the National Social Security Board. Any plan to be approved must: 1. Be state-wide. 2. Provide for financial participation by the State and County. 3. Provide for state administration or supervision of administration. 4. Provide for a fair hearing before the State Board if a claim ls denied to an applicant. 5. If there be one child in the family, the allowance for such child shall not exceed $18.00 per month. If there be more than one child the allowance shall not exceed $12.00 for such other dependent child or children. 6. The County Welfare Board will report to the State Board of Public Welfare. The State Welfare Board will report to the Federal Social Security Board. 7. The term "dependent child" means a child under the age of sixteen who has been deprived of parental support by death, desertion, divorce, physical or mental incapacity of a parent, and is living with his father, mother, grandparent, brother, sister, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, uncle or aunt, in a place of residence maintained by one or more such relatives as his home. 8. The term "aid to dependent children" means money payments with respect to a dependent child or dependent children. Cr Notes to TEN MINUTES—THEY'RE YOURS By Ida Peterson Beal Azout six years ago at the Mc Cune School of Music one of the first departmental meetings of the Choristers and Organists was held. It was most gratifying to see the large number present, and their manifest. Interest and enthusiasm in the problem of improving the singing in the Relief Society. Many choristers gave helpful suggestions as to how they had met the need long felt by them for this training. Their principal complaint at this meeting was that heretofore, there had been no time given to the choristers for practice, and no special recognition of their duties. They spoke in apologetical terms of their calling, and seemed to have very little faith in their own abilities. Such a condition, and frame of mind, was not helpful to them. How could they under such conditions be stimulated to do the fine constructive work they were capable of doing? Time, in the meetings of the Relief Society, should be set aside for the use of the choristers. Ten minutes in each meeting for practice was all they asked for. Upon knowledge of this request, the General Board of the Relief Society very readily gave consent, and ten minutes were given to the choristers and organists in the regular meetings, except the first Tuesday. The presidents of the Wards were urged to give this period of the meeting to the choristers. They in turn were to use it and to demonstrate what they said they could do in the Field building up better singing in the different Wards. Now then the question is, What are you doing with these ten minutes? The president of the Ward expects you to use the time profitably. Here are some suggestions: Always have something definite and purposeful in mind, also the technique you would use to arouse enthusiasm and interest in good singing. Be well prepared. Be enthusiastic. Have your hymns selected for the practice. Give a brief talk on the hymn, its background and purpose, marks of expression, tempo, and any other features you wish to emphasize. Urge the Sisters to learn the words as they convey the message. Go forward with your practice, use your baton, and have a spirited, enthusiastic rehearsal. New hymns can be learned and the old ones improved through a better understanding and an appreciation of them. This period will lend itself to the development of fine hymn singing which is such an important factor in all our meetings. For convenience and comfort during this period, it is suggested that the Sisters remain seated. You asked for these ten minutes —now use them profitably. Development of choruses will be discussed in a later article. It is your privilege to lead in an awakened appreciation of good music and its wonderful contribution in all of our services. Make the members feel that they are individually important and that their contribution musically is needed in each meeting. Guide them to the understanding that without practice there can be no NOTES TO interest and without interest there can be no progress." These ten precious minutes are yours! Use them well. RELIEF SOCIETY HOME READING PROJECT OTHING has ever been suggested by the General Board which has met with a more general response than the Home Reading Project, with the Scriptures as the text. The vast amount of material presented in the first plan was not fully grasped until it was fairly undertaken. With the realization of this fact, it was decided to recommend the Old Testanient for the first year. This was not time enough to make a thorough study of the rich material, and a request was made from so many Relief Society organizations that another year be allowed for this. Yielding to the will of the majority, the General Board decided to continue the reading of the Old _ Testament for the Relief Society year of 1935 and 1936. The Relief Society sisters are to be congratulated on the remarkable success with which they have conducted the Project during the past year. The extent of their efforts is felt in every community. It is to be hoped that the current year will be equally fruitful, that added treasures will be found in this "storehouse of ideals;" that the historic data, the literary masterpieces, and the wealth of spiritual truths will enrich the lives of our people. The subjects for the Teachers' Topic have been taken from the Old Testament with the hope that these two educational features in Relief Society might aid each other. For the years 1936 and 1937; 1937 and 1938, the New Testament will afford the material for the Project, the THE FIELD 43 Theological Lessons and the Teachers' Topic. If the sisters of Relief Society know of the program in advance it will enable them to plan their courses to the best advantage. TIME OF RELIEF SOCIETY LESSON PUBLICATION N response to many requests the advance lessons for the Relief Society courses were published beginning with the May 1935 issue of the Relief Society Magazine. This early publication of the lessons has been of some benefit, but an actual tryout of the plan has demonstrated that the disadvantages far out-number the advantages. Much confusion has resulted, and it has been impossible for the office to supply the "lost issues" of the Magazines containing the lesson outlines. It has, therefore, been decided to publish a prospectus of the lesson courses in the June, 1936, Magazine, and the lesson outlines to begin as in previous years, in the August issue. LEADERSHIP WEEKS UE to the courtesy and fine cooperation of the Brigham Young University, of Provo, Utah, and the Ricks College, of Rexburg, Idaho, the Relief Society will participate in the Leadership Weeks of these fine institutions of learning. This is really a marvelous opportunity for Relief Society to get information and inspiration which aids greatly in carrying on the work of the organization. The Relief Society expects to have two hours each day during the week at the Brigham Young University —from 10:30 to 11:30 a. M. And from 11:30a. M. To 12:30 p. M. The first period will be devoted to cona  sideration of the formal educational subjects, with the General Theme: "Spiritual Growth Through our Course of Study." Monday—S piritual Through Theology. Tuesday—S piritual Through Literature. Wednesday—Spiritual Growth Through the Teachers' Topic and Project. Thursday—Factors Fundamental in the Development of Spiritual Life in the Community. Friday—S piritual Growth Through Social Service. The Work and Business will conduct its session during the second Growth Growth period assigned to Relief Society, and the following program will be put into effect: Monday—Mental and Cultural Value of Handicraft, Knitting and Crocheting. Tuesday—Principles of Design and Color as Applied to Handicraft, Upholstering and Reconditioning Furniture. Wednesday—Floor Finishing and Coverings, Drapes. Thursday—Miscellaneous Day— Screens, Trays, Picture Frames, Block Printing, Lighting, etc. Friday—The Fundamental Purpose of Work Days, Discussion. Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest HE committee for the General Board of the Relief Society takes much satisfaction in announcing the result of the annual prize poem contest for 1935. There were 89 poems submitted, many so excellent that the task of selection was most difficult. The object of the contest, to encourage women to write and appreciate poetic literature, seems to meet with success and it is indeed gratifying to note the excellence of most of the poems sent in. We trust the same interest will be manifest each succeeding year. The judges this year were Professor John Henry Evans, educator and writer, John D. Spencer, literary and dramatic critic and Mrs. Elise B. Alder, member of the  , for her poem, "Across The Years." Honorable mention was given to Sadie Ollerton Clark, El Paso, Texas, for "To My Mother," to Mabel S. Harmer of Salt Lake City for "My Foster Child" and to Ethellyn Jones of Boise, Idaho, for "The Lonely One." We congratulate the successful authors and thank them and all who contributed to the contest. We are also deeply indebted and grateful to the judges for their assistance. Annie Wells Cannon, Julia A. F. Lund, Rosannah C. Irvine, Lottie Paul Baxter, Mary C.