By Elder Melvin J. Ballard Of the Council of the Twelve Watchman, what of the night? Oe. Call was often heard in ancient Israel when the people were in doubt and uncertainty concerning tomorrow. It is still on the lips of many anxious people in Israel in these last days. That same inspiration, however, that guided answers to the anxious inquiries of the people is upon the earth again. The Lord has spoken most clearly through His prophets in these the last days concerning today and tomorrow. Everything that has happened in the more than one hundred years of the Church's existence was all clearly foreshadowed by the Prophet Joseph Smith who also under the inspiration of the Lord foreshadowed what is now happening and what will yet come to pass. Many people wonder if we are on the verge of the loss of civilization and whether history is to repeat itself in the rise and fall of empires and nations as in the past. Every nation in the past began to crumble under the terrific forces of war. War, however is the fruit of the spirit and as long as the spirit of greed and selfishness is in the hearts of men there will continue to be war and bloodshed. Notwithstanding that dark picture, there is the firm assurance that there will come a day when a civilization will be established that will stand forever and never pass away. 'That day has dawned. That government is among men. 'The inspired authors of the constitution brought forth a form of government that was to be a benefit to all flesh as a part of that scheme which will endure. The Church of the living God has been re-established for the last time never to be overthrown or left to another people. These two great departments of God's kingdom are not destined to be overthrown. Though there shall be war, out of every conflict will come victory for the right, for the establishment of truth. Every institution that stands in the way of this—God's scheme and purpose—will be shaken to the earth whether it be in the State, or in the Church or in the affairs of men, for this is the hour when everything will be shaken that can be shaken and only the truth will be able to survive. It will be a sad day for autocracy, for wickedness, for tyranny and oppression, but it will be a glorious day for righteousness and truth. "T'HIS year 1936 will see many conclusions in the affairs of men marking progress towards the realization of these glorious promises of the Lord that His kingdom is established for the last time among men to be ultimately triumphant and victorious. All the marvelous things that have happened in the last hundred years, showing greater progress in human affairs than all the centuries that have preceded it since Adam's day, are but steps in the Lord's program for the preparation of this world for its golden age, for the coming of its King. Christianity as it exists in its many forms in the world is being shaken WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT? 13 as it never has been in centuries. It has been weighed in the balance and been found wanting. Never since the Lord Jesus Christ more than one hundred years ago said to Joseph Smith in the sacred grove that it had the form of godliness but lacked the power thereof are men more generally sayings it than today. It was utterly helpless to save the world from one of its greatest catastrophes, the great World War. These were Christian nations fighting Christian nations and still that spirit is in the earth. With a mighty Christian nation today waging a most unjust war of greed on a weaker Christian nation it shows that in this great Christian nation the spirit of the Master to love your enemies, to do good to them that despitefully use you, is woefully lacking. This all being true a day has dawned at last for the real Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ established under the Prophet Joseph Smith with all the gifts and power that ever were enjoyed by the Church in former days to demonstrate to a world that is fast losing its faith that there is power in the Gospel of the Son of God to take greed and selfishness out of the hearts of men and make for brotherhood. EHIND this Church today is one hundred years of demonstration where people have been brought from all nations into communities where they are merged into one, into a brotherhood where love and peace abound. It is a demonstration that will attract the attention of the world. There is power in the Gospel God revealed in this age, if lived by the Latter-day Saints, to make them a light to the world and a hope that shall still inspire men to believe in the mission of the Redeemer as the Prince of Peace and the only one who holds the way to solve human problems, and that is not by arraying class against class, nation against nation, but by establishing brotherhood among men. HE Latter-day Saints are now challenged to rally to their standards and demonstrate in actual, practical living the power of this Gospel to change men's hearts, to establish peace and _ brotherhood, light and truth among men. While the world is fast abandoning the standards of old, whether they be moral, spiritual, or otherwise, it is a time for Latter-day Saints to adhere to their standards as never before for they are righteous and just. There is everything in reason and in science and in faith to support them as being true and dependable. If we shall adhere to the Lord's program we will distinguish ourselves and attract the attention of right thinking men and women everywhere who will ultimately come to learn of the ways of such a people. There is therefore no need of undue anxiety. If we set our houses in order and subscribe to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as it has been restored in these last days, then we can stand still and see the salvation of God working out in the affairs of men for the accomplishment of His glorious designs. May that day be speeded on and may we and our children and our children's children be found in the ranks of the victorious in that happy time that is to come when the truth and the right shall be victorious and triumphant in the earth.