An Awakening By Mona Wilcox Cannon CuaracTers: Brother and Sister Burns; Sister Moss and Sister Taylor. Settinc: Brother and Sister Burns are seated on the stage which represents the front room of their home. SISTER Burns: (Hears knock at door and answers) Good evening Sister Moss and Sister. Taylor. Come in. (They enter and she shakes hands with them.) SistER Moss: Good evening, Sister Burns. We stopped in to see if you wouldn't come to Relief Society with us. Si1sTER Burns: That was nice of you, but I thought I wouldn't be going out. (With a look at her husband) It is literary night. Sister Moss AnD SIsTER Tayuor: (follow look and say) Good evening, Brother Burns. BroTHER Burns: Evening, Sisters. My wife doesn't read novels. She'd just as well stop at home. SISTER TayLor: We notice she usually misses on Literary day. That's why we called for her. They are such wonderful lessons. - SistER Burns: Do sit down. (All sit). BroTHER Burns: When we want to read, the Bible's good enough for us. Sister Moss: Of course, nothing else equals the Bible. But don't you read anything modern, not the newspapers? BroTHER Burns: (Frowning) That's different. You have to know what's going on in the world. Sister Moss: But that's why we read novels and stories. We want to understand life, what people think, what they do, and why they do it. BROTHER Burns: The Bible tells you about that pretty well. Sister Tayxtor: But Brother Burns, when Jesus preached, he referred to the customs of his own time, the beautiful shepherd life, the burying of money, the drawing of water from a well. If He were living now, He would understand the life of today. He would preach to rich and poor, communist and capitalist, Saint and Sinner; His religion would be the proper religion for them all, as it has always been, but He would preach in their own language, the speech of today. BRoTHER Burns: But what have novels to do with religion? StsterR Moss: Sometimes a great deal, Brother Burns. I have read about people with faith and loyalty, people like ourselves who were struggling against great obstacles, with a wonderful courage—people who were misunderstood. Sometimes when I am through, I feel all cleansed and uplifted, and braver about fighting my own battles. SrsteR TAYLOR: Besides, the second great commandment was to love our neighbors. We can't love people if we can't understand them. And literature helps—oh, it helps so much to, understand God's poor children. SistER Burns: But, Sister Taylor, when I last went they were talking AN AWAKENING 29 about Anna Karennina and Hester Prynne, and they are both evil women. S1sTER Moss: I shouldn't say so. They were both naturally extra good women, but each made a mistake. Hester Prynne became the finest character in her community. And she was very brave, braver than the idolized minister, Arthur. She didn't run away from anything. She stopped right there in her own town and faced it all and went about doing good to her persecutors. She stirs me up and makes me feel like being better myself. Ape Burns: But it does seem dangerous for young girls to read such things. SISTER Taytor: My dear, you can hardly hide the newspapers from them, and newspapers are far more dangerous. Besides, they read the story of Mary Magdalene in the Bible, and she became a beautiful woman because Jesus understood and forgave her. We all need a little of His Divine compassion. SISTER Burns: Then you don't think it might set them a bad example? SISTER Taytor: No! To me those two books are the most powerful sermons against wrong doing. Would any woman willingly go through the sufferings of Anna or Hester? If young people truly understand that sin ALWAYS means suffering, and for many others who love them, as well as for themselves, I think there would be no more sin. BROTHER Burws: Are the lessons still on novels? _ SIsTER Moss: No, we went on to poetry and now— BroTHER Burns: What's the use of poetry? Folks might as well speak things out plain. ° SistER Moss: If you don't learn to like poetry here, Brother Burns, what will you do in heaven? How about the Angels' singing? You are going to want to enjoy that, and that will all be in poetry, I mean it wouldn't be a proper Heaven without song. SIsTER Burns: That's right, Thomas. (He frowns at her.) S1IsTER Moss: Besides, nothing is so full of poetry as the Bible. BROTHER Burns: The Bible? It don't look like poetry to me. StsTER Moss: No, it isn't written like poetry in the King James edition, though it is in the modern revised versions. Every book in the Bible has a lot of it—the Song of Solomon, Proverbs, Isaiah, Nahum, and there is no finer poetry in all the world's literature than the Psalms. SISTER Burns: I can quote some of the Psalms. Sister Moss: I, too, and I quote them so much better since I know they are poems. BROTHER Burns: I've never noticed that they rhyme. StsterR Moss: Most great poetry doesn't rhyme. Often it's better for that reason. It's free-er. But the Psalms have music and rhythm— and they paint wonderful pictures that you see with your eye, and use rich, musical words that express exaltation of feeling. BroTHER Burns: (Still disapproving) I think the words are too fancy sometimes. They don't have to be like that to tell religion. S1sTER Taytor: I think as Sister Moss does. It's like a young girl wearing a lovely frock. It seems right for her. And these words are only a proper dress for the heautiful thoughts they clothe.  SISTER Burns: I wish I knew as much as you sisters do. I can't talk that way. SISTER Moss: Most of our knowledge came from the Relief Society lessons. It all began there. SISTER TAYLOR: The poets discover all the beauty in life, and when we read them, we begin to see it too. SISTER Burns: But you're all through with poetry now? SIsTER Taytor: Yes, we are studying biography now, the art of writing lives, not being dishonest and telling all the virtues about a person and denying his faults, nor telling all his faults and denying his virtues, but being honest, making a person really live, so that we understand his trials and his struggles, and really know his heart and soul. SISTER Burns: What do you study tonight? S1sTER TAYLOR: Queen Victoria, and "Dear Albert." SIsTER Burns: I've always wanted to know more about Queen Victoria. S1stER Moss: Then come along, for Lytton Strachey is the man to tell you. He is full of understanding, and when you get home you'll know the little Queen better than did her ladies-in-waiting. S1sTeR Burns: (Turning to husband) You have a meeting of your own. Don't you, Thomas? BroTHER Burns: What's the odds? Go along if you like. S1sTER Burns: I'd love to go, Sisters. I've never attended a Court. (Puts on hat and all leave stage.)