With sheltered walls and fire-side I hear your voice across the years, Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon ELCOME the New Year, as it enters like a little child, into a period of the great unknown, with good cheer, with friendly thought, with courage, love and hope. VALYN WALSH McLEAN, Washington socialite, heiress to millions, has written an enchanting story of her colorful life, called "Father Struck It Rich." It is very real in its Americanism. LAPY MENDI, the former Elsie de Wolfe, writer and designer, was pronounced by Paris dressmakers "the world's best dressed woman." She promptly denied the charge and declares, "I only spent between $10,000 and $15,000 on clothes this year." One wonders what the "best dressed woman" spent. ARIAN SPITZER, film executive and author, says she thinks married women inake better business women than single women do. She further asserts, that there are fewer divorces among working married people, than among those where the wife does not work. MARIE SANDOZ received the Atlantic Monthly prize of $5,- 000 for the best non-fiction book in 1935. Her book, "Old Jules" is a biography of her father, a unique personality in a pioneer Nebraska setting. ME. IRENE CURIE JOLIOT, daughter of the late Mme. Curie, discoverer of radium, was awarded, with her husband, Professor Frederic Joliot, the Nobel prize in chemistry for 1935. FL THEL LEGINSKA destroyed the old theory that women cannot write music, when this winter, she produced and conducted her opera "Gale" in the Chicago opera house. It is stated she is the first woman in history to write and conduct an opera in a major opera house. M™E-. JERITZA, Grace Moore, and other Metropolitan stars are now frequently heard on the radio, thus giving thousands throughout the land the delight of hearing the most wonderful voices in the world, interpret the greatest music. Miss HELEN RICHEY, the nation's original woman co-pilot was forced to resign because she was a woman. Amelia Earhart and other noted women aviators protest this action of the Pilot's union against women pilots. MB:: WALTER C. HURD of Utah, an ardent lover of trees, has been instrumental in helping plant thousands of young trees on the hillsides and waste places of her native state. AISS M. CAREY THOMAS, distinguished educator, died recently. Through 50 years she was connected with Bryn Mawr College, as dean, president and president emeritus. She was also associated with the founding of Johns Hopkins medical school.