Lesson Department (For First Week in June) Theology and Testimony LESSON IX THE WESTWARD MIGRATION 1. The Critical Period. The death of the Prophet Joseph Smith brought about the first disorganization of the Presidency of the church. Although the revelations were very clear concerning the matter of succession, yet the saints had given but little thought to such a contingency, and therefore many of them were greatly confused when the problem actually confronted them. In a revelation given to the apostles some nine years earlier, the Lord declared that ?The twelve traveling councilors are called to be Twelve Apostles, or special witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world?thus differing from other officers in the church in the duties of their calling. And they form a quorum equal in authority and power to the three presidents previously mentioned." (D. & C. 107:23, 24) 2. At the time of the martyrdom most of the apostles were absent on missions; only two were at home and one of these was seriously injured. Immediately upon receiving word, those who were away hurried back to Nauvoo. For several years prior to this time, Sidney Rigdon, first councilor to Joseph Smith, had made his residence at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, contrary to the wishes of the Prophet and the commandment of God. (See D. & C. 124: 108-110). But as soon as he learned of Joseph's death, he also hastened to Nauvoo, arriving there on the third of August, about three or four days ahead of most of the apostles. 3. Doubtless hoping to have a leader appointed before the apostles arrived, Sidney Rigdon called a meeting in the forenoon of August 4, 1844, and offered himself as guardian for the church. He spoke at great length in favor of this proposal. Another meeting was held in the afternoon, with the same object in view. Elder William Marks, president of the stake, announced a meeting for August 8, although Sidney Rigdon wanted it called for the 6th. This was indeed fortunate, for President Young and several of the apostles did not reach Nauvoo until the evening of the last-named date, namely August 6. 4. In the forenoon of the appointed day, August 8, a great throng of people gathered in the grove near the temple. Sidney Rigdon took up his position in a wagon about two rods in front of the stand and spoke for nearly an hour and a half. He again proposed himself as guardian of the church, but the longer he talked, the less the people appeared willing to receive him. President Young spoke briefly and announced that the meeting would be continued at two o'clock in the afternoon. 5. At the appointed time the multitude returned. President Young addressed the assembly with frankness and great power, declaring that the apostles had been appointed and ordained to bear the Keys of the Kingdom of God in all the world. He said he did not want to bias the saints against the claims of Sidney LESSON DEPARTMENT 55 Rigdon, and urged them to vote precisely as they felt. It was upon this occasion, according to widespread testimony, that Brigham Young was transformed into the likeness of the slain prophet?voice, person and manner. 6. When the question was put to the assembly as to whether or not they were willing to sustain the apostles as leaders of the church, the vote was unanimous in the affirmative. Thus from the time of the Prophet's death in June of 1844, to December of 1847, the Twelve Apostles with Brigham Young at their head, constituted the presiding council of the church. On the 15th of December, 1847, Brigham Young was sustained as President of the church. This was done at Winter Quarters after his return from the memorable pioneer journey to the Rocky Mountains. 7. Persecution Continued. The murdering of the Prophet and his brother, Hyrum, merely had the effect of intensifying the determination of the enemies of the church to wreak their fiendish passions on its entire membership. The Prophet had foreseen this, for in an address to the Nauvoo Legion, delivered near - the Mansion on June 18, 1844, he said: "It is thought by some that our enemies would be satisfied with my destruction; but I tell you that as soon as they have shed my blood, they will thirst for the blood of every man in whose heart dwells a single spark of the spirit of the fullness of the Gospel. The opposition of these men is moved by the spirit of the adversary of all righteousness. It is not only to destroy me, but every man and woman who dares to believe the doctrines that God hath inspired me to teach to this generation." (History of the Church, Vol. VI, p. 498.) 8. Doubtless the enemies of the Prophet thought that when he and Hyrum were put to death, the church would come to a sudden end. Therefore, when they witnessed the installation of new officers and the determination of the membership to carry on, their anger was rekindled and they turned their wicked attention to the, people as a whole. A campaign to incite public opinion against the church was launched in several unfriendly papers. The saints were charged with theft, immorality, disloyalty to county, and nearly every crime in the criminal calendar. Schemes were launched to provoke the saints to retaliation. The homes of scattered members were burned and the families seriously harassed and mistreated. Meantime the Governor permitted these merciless attacks to go on unrestrained. 9. Finally, of course, the breaking point came and the saints were notified by a committee that they were expected to move from the state of Illinois. Counter proposals were of no avail, and eventually, under threats of armed force, the demand was acceded to. 10. Migration to Winter Quarters. Departure from Nauvoo began in the early part of February, 1846. At this season of the year, the great Mississippi was covered with ice and the weather was altogether unfavorable to travel; but in the face of these untoward conditions, a large contingent of the saints moved across the river and camped at Sugar Creek, a few miles within the state of Iowa. It is recorded that during the first night of the encampment here, nine infants were born. The company remained at this place for nearly a month, receiving reinforcements and organizing for the journey ahead. By this time there were four hundred wagons, many of them  poorly covered, and with insufficient teams to permit of more than extremely slow travel. The roads too were nearly impassable due to heavy rains and the clay-like nature of the soil. 11. At the outset of the journey, one hundred men were sent ahead to improve the roads and to locate places where crops might be planted and houses be built for the temporary use of the stream of slowly oncoming saints. Such a site was selected on the east fork of Grand river, one hundred forty-five miles west of Nauvoo, and named Garden Grove. Land was cleared, fences were put up, roads were improved, fields were prepared for cultivation, wells were dug, houses were built, and thus a village magically rose in the midst of the wilderness. 12. Another such resting place was established at a locality named Mount Pisgah, twenty-seven miles west of Garden Grove. Here seven thousand acres were fenced and made ready for cultivation. It should be observed that to the lasting credit of these pioneers they were willing to plant that others might reap. Such unselfishness, such devotion to the cause of human brotherhood, is probably without a parallel in the history of mankind. 13. Some four months after the departure of the saints from Nauvoo, the vanguard of the company began to arrive at the east banks of the Missouri river, not far from Council Bluffs, an outpost of civilization. Daily arrivals soon swelled the company to nearly five hundred wagons. 14. It was the original intention of President Young and the apostles to send a strong contingent of able bodied men to the Rocky Mountains that season to build houses and plant crops preparatory to the arrival of the body of the saints. The main company, however, had been compelled to travel very slowly because of its unexpectedly large size, and just now it had been weakened by the request of the government for five hundred volunteers for the war with Mexico. Because of this, it was decided to postpone the Rocky Mountain project until early the following spring. 15. Accordingly, a decision was reached to remain at the river for the winter. Permission was obtained from the chiefs of the Pottawattamie Indian tribes to build temporary quarters on the west bank of the river. Here a site was chosen and named Winter Quarters. Houses were built; a council house, for the holding of meetings, was constructed; a grist mill was put up; and the area was improved generally. The object was doubtless as much to keep the people busy as to provide for their convenience. In spite of these efforts, however, there was much suffering arising perhaps chiefly from improper food and congestion of living quarters. The arrival of springtime was most welcome. 16. Onward to the Valleys. Preparation for the journey westward went steadily forward throughout the winter. Sturdy, able-bodied men were selected for the journey?uncomplaining, fearless men, who had already proved their integrity to the cause of truth. On the 14th of January, 1847, the word of the Lord came to President Young giving instruction for the organization of the Pioneer company and its guidance to the West. (See D. & C. 136) 17. Some seven weeks later, namely, April 5, 1847, the first contingent left Winter Quarters and shortly thereafter went into temporary camp some forty-seven miles to LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 the westward slightly beyond the Elkhorn river. Within the next few days, several other contingents concentrated at this place and on the 14th of April the entire company was organized for its unparalleled trip to the Rocky Mountains. The total number of people was one hundred forty-seven, of whom three were women and two were children. 18. In addition to the organization just mentioned which was de-. Signed chiefly to facilitate travel, a military organization was also effected, with Brigham Young as lieutenant-general; Stephen Markham, colonel; John Pack and Shadrach Roundy, majors. 19. The route of travel was along the north side of the Platte River to Fort Laramie, eastern Wyoming. At this point the company crossed the Platte to the south side and recrossed it slightly to the west of the present site of Casper. The journey continued up the Sweetwater into the drainage of the Green river and thence over the great Basin divide into the headwaters of Bear river. From here onward the company passed through Echo canyon, East canyon, Emigration, and into Salt Lake Valley. 20. The first of the Pioneers reached Salt Lake Valley on July 21, 1847. Others came on the 22nd and still others on the 24th. In harmony with instruction from President Young, who was delayed because of illness, those who entered on the 21st and 22nd sought out a place where planting could begin and a city be built. This was done and plowing was commenced on the 23rd. In the meantime President Young was kept informed of what was being done. Thus on the 24th of July, 1847, as the carriage in which the President was riding drew up in such a position that he could see the valley, he prophetically declared, "This is the Place." 21. The journey from Winter Quarters had consumed almost precisely one hundred days, and the distance traveled was slightly more than a thousand miles. Before the close of the season in excess of two thousand people had reached the valley. A new refuge had been founded?Zion, in the tops of the mountains. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why was the period immediately following the Prophet's death the most critical in the history of the church? 2. What do you know of President Young's "transfiguration''? Have you heard anyone testify that witnessed it? 3. Why in your judgment should the Prophet's enemies turn upon the saints after they had slain him? 4. What is the distance from Nauvoo to Council Bluffs? How long would it take you to travel this distance? 5. What do you think of the integrity of a people who would plant that others might reap? 6. Why was it advisable that the people should be kept busy at Winter Quarters? Do we have any modern parallels? 7. In what respects did the Pioneers perform a mighty service for the church?  Work and Business LIGHTING AND LAMP SHADES HESE long winter nights when children are preparing lessons, proper lighting is very important. Unshaded lights produce a glare which is hard on the eyes. To avoid this all bulbs should be shaded to diffuse the light. In the discussion on Home Lighting, pg. 50 of Handicraft for Every Woman, many essential facts concerning this subject are given as well as suggestions and directions for making lamp shades for every type of lamp and to suit any pocket book. CONSUMER PROBLEMS HEN you buy tempting bargains that prove after the first washing to be shoddy merchandise. You are not only cheating yourself you are helping to undermine conditions of everybody from the farmer who grows the cotton to the people who weave it into cloth and the men and women who sell it to you as finished product." Selection and wearing of clothes has a prominent place in the business of living. Few things offer such a lift to depressed spirits as a new hat or shoes. What we wear does more than cover and protect our bodies. Other human needs are security, response, recognition, new experiences. The glamour of any occasion whatever the place or season is largely created by the shimmer and shine, the jaunty cut, the grace and color of clothes. If wisely chosen they enhance looks, and personalities. In lieu of big adventures we find new experiences in things close at hand. Have we exploited the possibilities of clothing as thoroughly as we might? Sewing in an occupational therapy and in good times as well as bad, handiwork has been an outlet for the creative impulse. Personal habits, general standards, poise and satisfaction are reflected in appearance. The more perishable goods with constant style changes enforce indulgence of our love of novelty which requires better consideration of values. Fashioning of all ready-to-wear products is done so well that even inexpensive garments register smartness. If as much could be said of the fabric durability, workmanship and quality, buying would be better done. Some points to consider in buying ready-to-wear dresses are: 1. Know what you can afford. 2. Know definitely what you want from the dress you buy. 3. Responsibility of shop for quality of merchandise it sells. 4. Strength and purity of fabric. 5. Color fastness? to sunlight and perspiration as well as washing. 6. Shrinkability "completely shrunk" or "will not shrink" are safest labels. 7. Style and fit. 8. Workmanship which includes seams, hems, pockets, button holes, stitching, trimmings as button buckles. 9. Laundering and cleaning. QUESTIONS 1. What should govern the amount spent for clothing? What per cent of budget? 2. Discuss the important points to be considered in buying ready-to-wear dresses. 3. Compare ready-to-wear with home made clothing as to economy of time, money, energy, material, See Better Buymanship Series, Household Finance Corporation, 919 N, Michi. Gan Ave., Chicago, ILL LESSON DEPARTMENT 59 style, fit, and becomingness. Which of careful and intelligent buying and do you prefer? Wearing of clothing? 4. What is the psychological value Teacher's Topic (For June 1936) Proverbs 31:10-31 "Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; * her clothing is silk and purple. Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates." THE last chapter of Proverbs closes with the description of a good woman and well may it do so, for woman's place is so important that when woman fails, civilization fails. Verily in her keeping are the issues of life. Her standard determines the tone of society. "Pure, true and strong, she makes men worship purity, truth and strength. Corrupt, false and vain, she blights and blasts the ideal of man, lowers all his aspirations, excites his evil passions to a frenzy of iniquity, degrades his soul to a level below the brutes." Some one has well said that the condition of woman is the touch stone of a civilized society. She has stronger religious feeling and faith and is more susceptible to spiritual influences than is man. "The man is not without the woman in the Lord." The one who is so glorified in this chapter is a wife. Neither man nor woman is complete without the other. Her husband finds in her his trust. She doeth  him good all the days of his life. It is this strength at home that gives to most men their dignity and place in public life. He is known in the gates because he gets peace, assurance and help in his home. Her children rise up and her husband too to praise her. She is industrious and because of her industry is a source of wealth to her husband. She seems to be able to increase the money entrusted to her. She is generous. "She spreadeth out her hand to the poor," Economy and generosity go hand in hand. "Where the woman who has been described is actually found in real life," says R. L. Horton, "it is for us to recognize her and to reward her. Let society take note of her: ?Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates'. The great Greek historian said that woman's highest praise consisted in not being mentioned at all. That is not the teaching of Revelation3Woman's best work is often done in silence and without observation, but her highest praise is when the seeds sown in silence have grown into flowers of loveliness and fruit that is sweet to the taste, and the whole community is forced to yield her the honor which is her due, exalting, with heartfelt admiration and with deep gratitude to God, the Wife, the Mother, the Ministrant to the Poor." Discussion 1. Enumerate the virtues of' the woman here depicted. 2. Show that there was a balance in her virtues. 3. Look around you and find counterparts in your own. Ward. 4. It would be interesting in this connection to read the following Proverbs dealing with women: 22: 14; 23:27; 19:13; 21:9; 25:24; 21: 19; 27:15; 17:16; 11:22; 14:1. Literature (For Third Week in June) ADVENTURES IN READING NEW LAMPS FOR OLD "In time there is nothing either old or new; there is only the rising and the falling of the Infinite Tide."?Elbert Hubbard. "New lamps for old," the genie of contemporary literature calls to today's readers. Today's poets, as of old, sing of the beauty of Nature, of the passions of Mankind, and of Life and Love. They also sing of the mine and the factory, the immigrant on Ellis Island and the sailor at the mast. There are also new forms and new styles, some alluring, some strange. In today's world of books where the "best seller" is the popular stamp of approval, the book "that is the precious life-blood of a master" is as of old "a magic casement opening on the foam." An Old Theme in a New World "The King's Henchman," a beautiful poetic drama, by Edna St. Vincent Millay provided the libretto for one of the most effective and artistically constructed American operas which has reached the stage. Edna St. Vincent Millay is easily ranked as one of the foremost of the new poets. She came to fame by her early volume of poems "Re-nas'- cence," of which collection "God's World" is the best known. Her latest work, a book of sonnets, is a record of her spirit, the joy of living and loving. Miss Millay graduated from Vassar in 1917. In 1921 she was awarded the Columbia Poetry Prize, and in 1922 the Pulitzer Prize. It is accepted by literary critics that she and John Masefield are the greatest living sonnet writers. Harriet Monroe, American critic, claims for Edna St. Vincent Millay "the richest, most varied, and most precious gift of song which any woman since the immortal Sappho has offered to the world." The theme of the drama "The King's Henchman" is an old literary remnant originally attributed to Celtic literature, and found in some form in all Teutonic literatures as the story of Tristan and Iseult. The story as found in the Arthurian cycle was used by Tennyson in "The Idylls of the King," another version was used by Wagner for his music drama "Tristan and Isolde." The setting of the drama is placed in the eighth century during the reign of King Edgar of England. The first act takes place in the king's banquet hall at Winchester. The court is assembled and Maccus, the grizzled friend of the king and a most skilful harpist has been singing the favorite song of the court, the saga of the glory and death of Cynewulf, King of Wessex. As the singer chants the story of the treachery that happened to the warrior at the door of his mistress by a rival for his throne, the courtiers listen in wrapt attention to the song of what happened: "By the bower of the Lady, Quenched forever, quelled and cold. Synewulf, the King!" After the singing the lords talk among themselves as they drink their wine. The ladies of the court discuss openly the latest news of the court, that the king is going to request the Thane of Devon to give his beautiful daughter, Aelfrida, for his bride. Aethelwold, trusted foster-brother of the king, is chosen to be the king's henchman for the mission to the court of Devon. He accepts the task out of love for his brother but with little glee, because he is a clumsy fellow, knowing little of the delicacies of women. The soldiers chosen to accompany Aethelwold assemble to the stirring old battle-song of the Cornish men, "O Ceasar, great wert thou', and as they depart the chorus rang out again and again; "Caesar, thy day is done, While ours is but begun!" The second act takes place on All Hallow's Eve. Aethelwold is near his destination, and rests with his men at nightfall in the forest near the Thane of Devon's castle. Aethelwold is near his destination, and rests with his men at nightfall in the forest near the Thane of Devon?s castle. Aelfrida has come to the forest with her serving-woman, Ase, "to seek in rune and spell a lover," for the old legend states that the first man a maiden meets in the woods that night will become her husband. As Aelfrida sings the incantation: White-thorn and black-thorn All Hallow's Eve is All Saint's Morning, Show him in dream, yet nothing dim The shadow and the shape of him," the light of the torch reveals the sleeping henchman. Days of infatuation follow, and Aethelwold withholds the facts of his mission. Later, Maccus is dispatched to the king with the message, "the maiden is comely and friendly spoken, but nothing for a king." The henchman and the maid wed. LESSON DEPARTMENT 61  The last act of the drama opens at the home of the Thane of Devon some months later. Already, Aethelwold is suffering remorse for his treachery, the beauty of his bride cannot bring him peace of mind. Aelfrida, bored by household cares, continually chafes at her lowly estate. Aethelwold plans to leave Britain and go to Ghent in Flanders. Before the preparations are completed, however, news is brought that King Edgar is on his way to visit his foster-brother. Hastily, Aethelwold tells his wife the truth, "but for the mist, thou hads't been Queen of England." He pleads with her to hide from the king, to disguise her beauty by darkening her skin and hair, anything to shield him from blame. Aelfrida promises to protect her husband, as the marching-song of the king's men is heard in the distance. Ase has been listening to Aethelwold's confession and request, now she urges her mistress "to drop her silver shell that she might pick up a gold one." The first greeting between the two brothers is most affectionate. Soon Aelfrida enters dressed in her richest attire, her beautiful hair loosed from its braids, and on her forehead a golden band. Slowly Edgar begins to understand the course of things. Gently he reproaches his brother with the words, "My life hath been but a heaping of sticks under an empty pot." Nothing now can stem the anguish of Aethelwold at his own treachery as he sees the suffering of Edgar. The henchman falls on his own sword before anyone can stop him. Aelfrida weeps bitterly at the feet of the king, who noting her shallowness exclaims, "Thou hast not tears enow in thy narrow head to weep him worthily." The king and his followers return home, taking the body for burial. The music for the opera was composed by Deems Taylor for the Metropolitan Opera Company production in New York in 1927. The success of the undertaking was immediate and unmistakable. The text of the libretto is beautiful, written in quaint phrases. The theme lacks the inevitability of the early legends, as it bears the marks of modernity. It is considered, however, a noble attempt at poetic drama. They Who Bring Dreams America has been termed "the melting-pot of civilizations." As soon as it was established that Freedom was her watchword, men of all nations turned towards her shores. To the Gate of the West they came from all climes: from the land death-. Less in song and story that nursed Socrates, from the Polish leas that gave birth to the melodies of Chopin and Dvorak, from the land that reared Ceasar and Dante and Angelo, and sped the Genoese boy at the Santa Maria's prow to give the world a new message. "On and on." All newcomers with dreams, dreams bred in the glory and greatness of the past and born anew in the hope of the future: "Nations of darers and dreamers. Scions of singers and seers. Oe * * k OF Newcomers all from the eastern seas, Help us incarnate dreams like these, Help us father a nation, strong Jn the comradeship of an equal birth, In the wealth of the richest bloods of earth." ?Robert Haven Schauffler. The short story is the newest of all literary forms and it is American in origin. From the dawn of history all ages, all nations, all peoples, civilized or savage, have been storytellers. America's greatest contribution to the field of modern literature is the short story. Perhaps no story LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 represents the secret of the greatness of America's contribution to this literary form so well as does the story, "The Citizen" by Francis Dwyer. The Citizen It is fitting that this American story should have as its author an American by adoption. In May, 1915, just after the sinking of the "Lusitania" when everyone's loyalty seemed to be focussed on thoughts of patriotism. Philadelphia welcomed into citizenship two thousand foreign born citizens. Mr. Dwyer, in his story, has made of the occasion a record for all time. One little woman held the hand of a big, muscular man as she listened to the President of the United States welcoming its newest citizens, "You were drawn across the sea by some beckoning finger of hope, by some belief, by some vision of a new kind of justice, by some expectation of a better kind of life. You dreamed dreams of this country, and I hope you brought the dreams with you. A man enriches the country to which he brings dreams, and you who have brought them have enriched America. No doubt you have been disappointed in some of us, but remember this, if we have grown poor in the ideal, you brought some of it with you. A man does not go out to seek the thing that is not in him. A man does not hope for the thing that he does not believe in, and if some of us have forgotten what America believed in, you at any rate imported in your own hearts a renewal of the belief. Each of you, I am sure, brought a dream, a glorious, shining dream, a dream worth more than gold or silver, and that is the reason that I for one, make you welcome." Big Ivan of the Bridge, holding Annie's hand, remembered every detail of his dream. How the idea first came to him in the land of his fathers by the Black Sea; how each coin was earned and saved for the journey; the weariness of the long tiresome days of travel by road, rail, and steamer; the arrival at Ellis Island and the confusion; the kind policeman who with a whistle stopped the roaring traffic while Ivan, his one trunk on his shoulder and holding tight to Annie's hand, crossed in safety; and now these words of welcome. The words of the President continued: "We grow great by dreams. All big men are dreamers. They see things in the soft haze of a spring day or in the red fire of a long winter's evening. Some of us let those great dreams die, but others nourish and protect them, nurse them through bad days till they bring them to sunshine and light which come always to those who sincerely hope that their dreams will come true." 'Big Ivan held Annie's hand tighter and whispered, "He knew of it. Did you hear what he said about dreams?" The band began to play, and Ivan and Annie got to their feet. Standing side by side they joined in with the others who too had found their way to the land of dreams. Songs of Our People From the simple beauty of the hymn "My Mountain Home So Dear" to the most exalted utterances of the prophetic leaders of the Latter-day Saints is a literary record unique in the annals of cultural and religious experience. Paralleling in thought the Hebrew belief of the Old Testament that they were the chosen people of God, they have related their experiences in narrative, lyric, and philosophic poetry. As the words of the beautiful poem "An Angel from on High" unfolds,  the story of the restoration of the everlasting gospel in the latter days is given to the world; man's destiny has never been more beautifully pronounced to the world in any literature than it came from the pen of Eliza R. Snow in "O My Father." God's children in the valleys of the mountains in days of disadvantage and disappointment should find new courage in the assurance of the song of the travail of the days of yore, "Come, Come Ye Saints;" and as life with its complexity shakes man's poise and self-control is threatened, "School Thy Feelings" is a bulwark. The days pass on like a tale that is told. For the generations to come the story of the Pioneers has been told with delightful simplicity in "The Exiles" by Alfred Osmond. After the pattern of the epic tale of Longfellow's "Hiawatha" this poet of our people has recorded the experiences of the exiles as they crossed the trackless plains to a new home, where like the Hebrews of old they sought freedom to continue as God's chosen people. In conclusion of the series of lessons I leave a message: "No man can reveal to you aught but that which already lies half asleep in the dawning of your knowledge. "The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple, among his followers, gives not of his wisdom but of his faith and lovingness. "If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter the house of his wisdom, but rather leads you to the threshold of your understanding ?The Prophet, Kahil. Gibran. NEW LAMPS FOR OLD Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. 1. The old theme "Tristran and Iseult'' 2. Review: "The King's Henchman" 3. Reading: "The Exiles," Alfred Osmond Guide to Reading A. "Plet," Alfred Lambourne A story of early days in Utah. The tenderness and beauty of this metrical tale will be appreciated by all members of the family. B. "The Prophet," Kahil Gibran A prose poem of great beauty after the Hebrew pattern of the Psalms written by a new poet of the ancient race. C. "The Canterbury Pilgrims," Percy MacKaye A modern dramatist has used his imagination to reproduce the picture of fourteenth century society. It is more than a pageant parade of men. It reveals the spirit of the age of Chaucer, the morning of English literature. D. "Magic Spades," Steffins A simple account of the romance of archaeology. Today's understanding of the past has been enriched by this modern science of the ancient civilizations of the Hebrews, Egyptians, and the Greeks and are being revealed to us day by day as some new tomb, temple, or dwelling is uncovered by the spade of the archaeologist. LESSON DEPARTMENT 65 Social Service (Fourth Week in June) LESSON VIII HEALTH AND DISEASE Text: Chapter IX THE idea that "health is wealth" is gradually dawning on the public consciousness. It is a well determined fact that the health of the people is of more economic consequence to the financial well-being of the state than individual or business profits. Likewise, the relationship between a happy state of mind and a healthy body has long been recognized. What is not quite so well understood is that the general health of a community depends upon all of its members. The problem of physical health is too often considered to be a matter of individual or family consideration. However, as civilization becomes more complex the social aspect of public health also becomes more vital to all. Vigorous health in the community is an asset which returns joy and gladness to life and contributes to the economic welfare of the community. It is the purpose of this lesson to improve our understanding along these lines by developing the following specific purposes: 1. To see the relationship ? public health and social efficiency. 2. To develop confidence in preventive medicine as a means of making life happier. 3. To realize individual responsibility in upholding and furthering public health programs. Public health is a basic factor in social welfare. The following examples of social conditions reveal the Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross relationship between health and social efficiency. Many of our great social problems, such as poverty, crime, vice, and delinquency have a direct causal relationship to the health of the individual. This statement is substantiated by modern clinical practice, which, in its attempts to analyze individual cases in unsocial behavior, always requires a careful medical examination of the individual. In many cases symptoms of physical or mental illness are disclosed. In turn, the foundation of the unsocial behavior is often traced to the ill health of the clinical patient. With the improvement in health a positive social attitude has often been developed. Also, poor health leads to poverty. An analysis of health conditions, particularly in the larger industrial centers, reveals that where sickness flourishes there will be found poverty. And poverty is noted as one of the greatest causes of juvenile delinquency. Children go wrong in their attempts to find more absorbing interests in life than the meager home can offer. Better health should be accomplished by better home conditions, and consequently less delinquency. Since the supplying of medical attention and the handling of delinquency are two large items in public expenditures their control through health education should raise the level of social efficiency very materially. Public health and welfare agencies are doing much to improve  health conditions in industrial centers and in community life as a whole, but a growing consciousness that the problem of public health is one of mutual concern and interest and should be considered from a social standpoint would do much to further the work of the present agencies. Sickness spreads from unkempt neighborhoods over large areas, and its victims are not restricted to the places of origin. Sickness usually affects the mental outlook in an undesirable way. As a result of illness, men and women sometimes become cynical and pessimistic in regard to the higher ideals of life, and their struggles appear hopeless. Many who are now publicly condemned for crime and immorality are suffering from a sick body or mind. Family well-being depends upon the radiation of joy and cheer and the pleasurable association of friends which are the natural accompaniments of good mental and physical health. Illness often pervades the home where the parents or children are the victims of unstable nerves. Moods of depression or irritable feelings result in physical breakdown. The finer spiritual values of life will not flourish under such conditions, nor can character develop desirably in such an environment. Preventive medicine could do much to make life happier for the public. While to a certain extent the health of the people depends somewhat upon the energies and defects inherited from past generations, to a greater extent it depends upon the utilization of scientific medical knowledge and the proper adjustment of controllable environmental influences. The extent to which preventive medicine is controlling diseases at one time considered a necessary problem of life is one of the marvels of the age. Yellow Fever, which once cost the United States $100,000,000 annually, has now disappeared from the United States. The death rate from typhoid fever has been reduced from 35.9 persons per 100,000 to 4.8 persons. Many diseases have been eliminated from the active list. The death rate in diphtheria has been reduced from 43.3 persons per 100,000 to 4.9 in 1930, with prospects of complete elimination. 'The expectation of life, i. E. The average age at death, has greatly increased, particularly during the past thirty years. This increase is due to the reduction in the mortality rate among persons under middle age, especially among infants and children, which has more than balanced the slower but consistent increase in the mortality rate of persons in middle and old age." (Recent Social Trends, p. 658) American people suffer annually from over 3,000,000 cases of communicable disease, perhaps one-half of which is unnecessary. These diseases cause about 15% of the country's total deaths. And in addition, permanent disability handicaps many for life as a result of this unnecessary sickness. "From 50 to 75% of our crippled children owe their condition to infantile paralysis and tuberculosis. Blindness, damaged hearts and kidneys, and increased susceptibility to other infections follow in the wake of communicable diseases among children." (White House Conference Report.) The average age of man has extended from 49.1 in 1901 to 54.3 years in 1930. The added years are the result of successful efforts to control the most deadly of the communicable diseases and of improvements in modes and standards of living. No specific efforts have so far been as successful in controlling diseases LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 peculiar to middle age and old age, or in postponing organic breakdowns that, although natural concomitants of the ageing process, are hastened by disease or undue strain. It is most probable that the causes for organic breakdown in middle and later life will be found in conditions of childhood and young adult life. Attempts to evaluate the monetary cost of preventable sickness and death with its accompanying poverty and crime reveal figures which are appalling in the aggregate. Of far greater significance, however, is the loss that human beings suffer in not being able to enjoy the happiness of good health that should be the natural inheritance of every soul. True, it sounds almost too idealistic to imagine a society in which good health prevails for all, but it is a condition which one should not be afraid to picture, for it is one toward whose realization preventive medicine has already made marvelous strides. Certainly, it does no harm to try to build up an attitude of confidence that disease can be overcome. Rather, it is imperative to the betterment of health conditions. The great need of the day is a consistent educational program aimed at raising and maintaining popular support for sound control practices in preventing disease and the alloting of resources to specific treatment. While our practicing physicians and surgeons are the ones upon whom we must rely primarily for treatment, it is quite necessary that social agencies see that professional medical service reaches many now being denied that privilege. It is to the best interests of the community to see that those people who need medical and surgical aid and who now go without that aid, receive the assistance even though it may be at public expense. The problem is one of local, county, state, and federal organization into a unified health program. Public health clinics are being established throughout the country. And there is an increasing trend among _ industrial plants to provide employees with a complete medical service. For example, it is reported that "the United Steel Corporation alone, at the end of 1925, employed 233 company surgeons, physicians, and interns; 117 outside surgeons on a salary, 251 nurses, including those in training, 62 visiting nurses, and 40 sanitary inspectors." (United States Steel Corporation Bulletin, No. 11). The service is slowly being extended to the family of the worker as well as the employees. "Industrial medical service provides an application of the insurance principle without any substantial use of funds for the overhead cost of insurance. The average cost of the service in 447 plants in 1924 varied from $4.30 per person in large plants to $7.53 in small plants." (Recent Social Trends) The activities of the United States federal government in the preservation of health and prevention of disease is being gradually extended. In 1932-33 twenty-five agencies were included in the federal health program with a yearly budget of $13,130,261. The twenty-five bureaus and agencies included such institutions as the Public Health Service, the Children's Bureaus, and the Narcotics division, all of which are still existent. Likewise, the health department of state governments is being extended, and is doing more effective work in the control of communicable diseases. The average per capita expenditure in 48 states for the year, 1930, was 12 cents. But, county  and municipal health organizations, being closer to the daily lives of the people, have made probably the greatest advancements. More fulltime health officers are maintained, and possible sources of health contamination are being eliminated. Naturally the per-capita expenditure increases with every extension of service. A development of far greater significance is the fact that the operation of hospitals by federal, state, and local governments has been increasing in recent years, until in 1931, 73% of all hospital service was provided by public agencies. The cost of such service, from $1 to $2 per capita, is not burdensome because it is spread among all the people. But if the entire cost were placed on the individuals, probably it would be too great to be borne. (Recent Social Trends) Naturally our interest centers primarily in the possibilities of the future that our support may be intelligently placed. Evidence seems to support the idea of an extension of government health service in the form of school health service, public health nursing, free distribution of serums, and other preventive products, treatment by competent physicians, and hospitalization at public expense or a reasonable fee. A case in point is the Province of Saskatchewan, Canada, where some thirty-two rural municipalities have employed physicians with tax funds who are available to all the people. Without further cost. Another trend is toward the organization of medical centers, both private and public, offering a complete medical service to individuals for a reasonable monthly payment. It is probable that if adequate medical service is made available to those families whose incomes are under $2,000 a year, additional financial aid must be given by some governmental agency. It is true, communities are realizing the great economic and social losses being annually sustained needlessly because of inadequate public health provision. That a better solution must be reached is evident. As individuals in our several communities, it behooves us to support that scheme which best meets our needs. To the Latter-day Saints the teachings in the "Word of Wisdom," (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 89) point the way to a life filled with a full measure of happiness and a minimum amount of ill health. To all who follow its teachings will come a belief in the tangible values of good health, and they will find the way to its maintenance clearly marked. _ Activities 1. Have some member of the class contact the nearest board of health to determine what preventive medicines and treatments may be furnished free, or at cost, to those who apply for the same. 2. Determine the type of health service which is being furnished to youth by your local schools. Wherein do parents fail to respond to the values of such service? 3. If accessible read pgs. 414-417 from the "Life of Louis Pasteur," by Rene Radot, in which will be found the story of the Alsatian boy, M. Pasteur's first case to receive his anti-toxin against rabies; and from "Microbe Hunters." by Paul de Kruif, Chapter XI for the story of the conquest of yellow fever, and Chapters III and V for sketches of Louis Pasteur and his work. A New Year to Spend! None can hoard it?all must spend it. Some will spend it wisely; others will throw it away in idleness. Twelve months from now, what will your son or your daughter have to show for the investment? L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound a THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound. SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main st 29 Richards St. Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah What About It? In the near future you will become a year older over night... Your insurance age will move up one more notch, and it will never move back again. Each notch brings you a higher rate! Why? Because your chance of living gradually decreases? Your chance of obtaining Beneficial Life Insurance becomes less each year and your premium cost increases? GIVE THIS MATTER YOUR SERIOUS CONSIDERATION NOW! See a Beneficial Representative and Start the New Year?On The Safe Side? parrot INSUWRANCE HOME OFFICE a7 COMPANY r= Sait LAKE City, UTAH GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES. & DIR. ASHBY D. BOYLE, ATTORNEY LEO E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR VIRGIL H. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR J. REUBEN CLARK JR., 1ST VICE-PRES. & DIR. DAVID O. MCKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR. AXEL B. C. OHLSSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR EARLE W. PIERCE, ASST. TREASURER EUGENE P. WATKINS. SUP. R. E. LOAN DEPT. WALDO M. ANDERSON, AGENCY SUPERVISOR DR. W. R. CALDERWOOD, MEDICAL DIRECTOR JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR She RELIEF SOCIETY Magazine