My Prayer By Margaret Evans T the beginning of this New Year, Heavenly Father, help me to make my home and those around me happy, knowing that to lose myself in the service of others is the greatest of joys. Help me to appreciate nature'in all her beauty, especially fall with her bounteous harvests and winter with the coming of the Birthday of our Lord. Help me to always strive against going back to those things that will keep me from the joys of my future eternal life with Christ. The mean, selfish, uncharitable feelings and attitudes and replace them by kindness, friendliness, forbearance and helpfulness. Help me always to have an understanding of my people and my friends, a rare judgment toward all mankind. Help me to be sincerely thankful for the good thoughts of my friends expressed toward me and the rough places over which they help me. May I be especially thankful that the Gospel gives me a broad vision to allow all men to worship as they wish. Help me to be faithful and devoted always to the testimony I have of the Gospel, and to work cheerfully at whatever is asked of me. Give me the opportunity of giving to those who have died without a knowledge of the Gospel, a chance to accept this knowledge, to prepare them for their place of salvation, glory or exaltation in the kingdom God has provided for his sons and daughters. Help me to develop desirable attitudes, ideals, and appreciation of all worthwhile things, and in my contact with my friends and acquaintances, help me to bring out the hidden good in them, and help them to a more abundant life. H INN YY CZ: a 4 os SI ZA,. F os ( ayy, N =5 m A UGA IS WW vA oe = SSSA aS RR eae RG Pe ee WSS zai ) K [eax ne i uy Sis = SK Ally. B> 3 Sai ON ey fe y as AJOL aw AAA f oe AVN << & NE wy Sans my (i Ma Wes i WM SOs fea SSL BNO UES —>F » Ls anit % naan BST 2 9a _ By Rss <3 LORE iY NG, j PI Xe: T this sacred holiday season, embracing the commemA oration of the Savior's birth, and the advent of a New Year, the Presidency and General Board of