A promise of summer moisture for the farmers, And a cleanly beauty that enriches all When they first look out at the snow that came by surprise, Destiny By Grace Jacobsen A Pageant in Three Scenes Scene I. The Origin of Woman. Scene II. The Mission of Woman. Scene III. The Destiny of Woman. PROLOGUE Some sacred music creating an atmosphere of loneliness and uncertainty. Stage Setting: The stage is arranged to depict a rugged earth scene, or a dreary world. If desired, a green tree, a wild flower, may relieve the barrenness. A rustic bench stands in the right corner partly concealed by vines and wild growth. As the curtain is drawn a lady dressed in pale lavender, or orchid robe enters (left) and wanders over the stage in a bewildered confused attitude. (Reader stands in right front of stage, and proceeds.) "Lady, whence comest thou to this desolate earth region? Perhaps thou art returned from traveling in a far country, and hast forgotten thy home so changed since thy going, or is it a land unknown to thee for thou art troubled. Afraid and uncertain of thy foot-steps." Her Answer (Duet): "I'm a pilgrim and I'm a stranger." (L. D. S. Hymn Book, page 414.) Reader: "Yes, truly thou art a pilgrim and a stranger, wandering in an unknown land, but not aimlessly, nor without purpose. Listen, gentle lady, and I will tell thee whence thy coming, why thy coming, whither thou art going. All these stages of thine existence are gloroius in the plan of thy Heavenly Father, and designed for thine exaltation in His kingdom. The memory of thy yesterdays are obscured from thy recollection, but through revelation from on high, given in these latter days, a knowledge of thy former state has been made known. (Quartet) First three verss of O, My Father." Reader: "In counsel the Gods were assembled The universe listened and trembled; For out of the atoms of infinite space, A terrestrial new world was to roll into place To fashion for mana mortal probation, Surrounded by matter of temporal creation. There to take on a body of flesh and bone, Uniting the eternal spirit as one. Their mission completed, salvation won A plan of redemption was now made known. Then Satan in his pride, laid bare His evil mandate to ensnare The souls of men by force of skill, 34 id RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And hold them captive to his will. The glory mine, the throne of light I claim for recompense, the right To rule and reign by might divine, And count the power of godship mine. A murmur then of discontent, Resounded through the firmament, Then heaven's gate was opened. Wide And through its portals side by side Went Satan and his hosts who fell, With him to outer darkness—hell." _ Music, (Loud thundering chords from the organ, bass horn, cello or other instrument representing the expulsion." Reader resumes: "Then Jesus spake, 'send me, I go, I wish to do thy will to know, Sustain me Father, help me through; That I may to the trust prove true.' His offer pleased the gracious Lord, And was accepted at his word. Then loud Hosannahs rent the air, And you, fair lady, you were there, And raised your voice amid the throng, In poem of celestial song. Rejoicing for the hour of birth, Upon the new created earth. And joined the ever flowing tide That people of God's dominions wide. Though rugged vale and mountain wall Made thus by Adam's tragic fall, They'll be redeemed in His own way, Hold fast thy faith until that day." (Curtain) Scene II Home [nterior (Curtain rises. Young man enters right stage, young lady enters left. They meet in center stage in lovers' happy greeting.) (Reader: Genesis 1-27): "And the Lord created man in His own image, male and female created He them and God blessed them, and said unto them, be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fishes of the sea and over the fowls of the air and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. Behold, I have given unto you every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of the earth and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat. "There are gifts from thy Father's hand, use them with joy and thanksgiving, rendering unto Him thine gratitude at all times. Pray DESTINY 35 always, and walk uprightly before Him, seeking to know His will and keep His commandments continually." (The couple may now be seated on couch near floor lamps in the attitude of planning their coming wedding, etc.) Reader continues: "Having reached the age of maturity it is thy duty to enter into the bonds of wedlock, for marriage is ordained of God that thou mayest reach the highest perfection, and that God's purposes might be fulfilled and that the earth might answer the end of its creation, and all things he consummated for the glory of thy Maker. "Having thus embarked in God's appointed way by the power of his holy priesthood, now given to the earth anew, go forth to this appointed mission. Cleave unto each other. Keep thy vows sacred, falter not in the day of trial that must come to thee to try thy strength and prepare thee for greater things to come. Then the smiles of heaven will be about thee, and sustain thee in all the walks of thy earthly journey. The earth will yield up her treasures for thy needs and comfort. The dream of thy youth will find their fulfillment in the joys of the little kingdom thou shalt found, called home." The couple rise, and he fondly takes his leave to the left, the lady arranges some books, linen. Or fancy work, makes a list of articles for the new home, while reader continues. ) "Having entered the sacred portal of marriage it now becomes thy duty to make a home, preferably in the land of thy fathers and establish it upon the rocks of faith and humility, acknowledging the giver of all in thy stewardship.. "The home is the strength of the nation, the foundation of all organized society, the bulwark of civilization, sobriety and progress. Children are secure in good homes where they may rest in comfort and contentment for upon this great and sacred institution depends the endurance and perpetuity of the future house of character that thou shalt be privileged to shape. The law of order, cleanliness, thrift, art, and cooperation, should be an established virtue, for the happiness and well being of all who dwell therein. "The physical, intellectual, and spiritual destiny of thy subjects are in thy keeping. Herein lies thy chief appointment. Here thou shalt be the examplar, the teacher, the ever burning flame of inspiration, and the undying embodiment of love." Scene III Home (The curtain rises showing father, mother, children—4 or 5 in number—in the home at evening. The home is well lighted and furnished in modern style. A well filled book case, magazines, etc., are prominent in the furnishing. The father is making out reports, the mother is showing the children pictures and hand craft of other nations. ) Reader: "The days of thy youth, having been spent in the acquisition of knowledge of things as they were, as they are, and as they are to be, having enlarged thy capacity for its intelligent application, it now  becomes thy duty to impart that information to thy household and associates, that they may assist in the spread of truth for the blessing of mankind. Gather from the fields of art, literature, and science, the treasures of the ages, as far as thou art able, that refinement and culture map pervade the home, and appreciation of the world's work foster the spirit of gratitude and the brotherhood of man continually. (Father and mother lay aside their intellectual pursuits. Father takes Book of Mormon and reads. Mother takes Bible stories and gathers children around her, holds book in the attitude of reading, or a quartet may sing. "I think when I read the sweet story of old, when Jesus was here among men.'") (At last strain mother rises, lays aside book and gets night dresses and prepares children for bed.) Reader continues: Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 68. (Reads slowly): "And they shall teach their children to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord. Teach them faith in God and the mission of His son, Jesus, the Savior of the world. The doctrine of repentance, and baptism, obedience, reverence for things sacred, and the proper observance of the Sabbath day. Loyalty and love of right order and respect for law in all the avenues of life both religious and civil. Tenderness, charity, and love of fellow men in all the world that from the fireside may go forth the future citizens and rulers prepared to carry on the world's work in righteousness, that the earth may cease its mourning and receive the glory that awaits it because of the well doing of its inhabitants." How great is thy responsibility, lady. Thy power is greater than rulers or potentates, and reaches far beyond the boundaries of this world into the realm of eternity. Wilt thou wear the crown now waiting to adorn thee? (A quartet, duet, or solo sings "Home Sweet Home") Curtain. (Curtain rises showing an old gray haired lady, thin and worn looking, seated in a rocking chair in a moderately comfortable furnished home, alone, and turning the leaves of the family Bible as the reader continues. ) "The hand of time has turned the chapters of life all too quickly. The years have sped on, the morning and noonday of life have passed, and the twilight thou canst not stay now gathers to enfold thee in its sweet embrace and now the lines of the poet clutch thy heart with deep and poignant meaning, "Backward, turn backward, O time in your flight. Make mea child again, Just for tonight." Thy wish is granted (Lady closes the book and lays it on table, lays back in the chair with folded hands as if in sleep. The floor lamp is dimmed at the following lines): The evening shades are falling, And her life work now is done. And she hears again the children, And she names them one by one. Longing fills her heart unceasing Could she once again enfold, Each loved form in fond caresses, As she did in days of old. There is just the ache of loneliness, For the joys'that now have flown. And the past with al! Its offering, Can never more be known. It is God's will, lift up thy heart. Thy mission is complete And in his loving care repose, Thyself in resignation sweet. (Lady rouses, still sitting she wipes a tear, then raises her head and smiles as if satisfied with the inevitable. ) Reader continues: "Lady, thy life has been wonderful, thou hast accepted the gift of thy father as the pearl of great price, and magnified with the fabric of daily life. Thy course has been charted according to His word, and the promised reward is now at hand. It is the greatest gift of eternal life, where thou shalt reign in thy father's house with thy companion, and people other worlds even as thou hast peopled this world, united with thy loved ones for all eternity. His unfailing love will sustain thee now and thy petitions be heard and answered." (Lady rises now and rather feebly totters as if faint and uncertain clutches the chair, desk, or other piece of furniture, while the reader continues): The way is dark, my Father. Cloud on cloud Is gathering thickly o'er my head, and loud The thunders roar above me. See I stand Like one bewildered! Father, take my hand, And through the gloom Lead safely home Thy child. (Looks out of window, raises blinds or curtain): The day goes fast, my Father, and the night Is drawing darkly down. My dimming sight Sees ghostly visions—fears, a spectral band Encompass me. O, Father, take my hand, And from the night Lead up to light Thy child. (Goes toward chair): The way is long, my Father, and my soul Longs for the rest and quiet of the goal, While yet I journey through this weary land, Keep me from wandering. Father, take my hand DESTINY  Quickly and straight Lead to Heaven's gate Thy child. (Sits): The path is rough, my Father, many a thorn Has pierced me; and my weary feet, all torn And bleeding, mark the way. Yet thy command Bids me press forward. Father, take my hand. Then safe and blest, Lead up to rest, Thy child. The throng is great, my Father. Many a doubt And fear and danger compass me about, And foes oppress me sore. I cannot stand Or goalone. O, Father, take my hand, And through the throng Lead safe along Thy child. My cross is heavy, Father. I have borne It long, and still do bear it. Let my worn And fainting spirit rise to that blest land Where crowns are given. Father, take my hand, And reaching down Lead to the crown Thy child. (Reader):; The Gracious Answer The way is dark my child, but it leads to light I would not always have thee walk by sight; My dealings now thou canst not understand. I meant it so; but I will take thy hand, And through the gloom Lead safely home, My child. The day goes fast, my child. But is the night Darker to thee than day? In me is light! Keep close to me, and every spectral band Of fears shall vanish. I will take thy hand. And through the night Lead up to light, My child. The way is long my child. But it shall be Not one step longer than is best for thee; And thou shalt know, at last, when thou dost stand Safe on the goal, how I did take thy hand, DESTINY 39 And quick and straight Lead to heaven's gate, My child. The path is rough, my child. But oh! How sweet Will be the rest, for weary pilgrims meet, When thou shalt reach the borders of that land To which I lead thee, as I take thy hand, And safe and blest With me shall rest, My child. The throng is'great, my child. But at thy side Thy Father walks; then be not terrified, For I am with thee—will thy foes command To let thee freely pass; will take thy hand, And through the throng Lead safe along, My child. The cross is heavy, child, yet there was One Who bore a heavier for thee—my Son. My well beloved. For Him bear thine, and stand With Him at last; and from thy Father's hand, Thy cross laid down, Receive a crown, My child. (The lady by this time is reclining far back in her chair, eyes closed. Two small children dressed in white enter L. & R. And smooth back her gray hair and put a crown on her head. A strain of soft music is heard and the curtain closes.)