Do's and Don'ts for Mothers By Virgima B. Jacobsen HIS list of do's and don'ts is given merely as a reminder to mothers of the rules we should observe in training our children. In the complexities of daily living, it is so easy to forget our multitudinous requirements as mothers. Don't nag and scold. Don't beg where you should command. Don't command where you should suggest, Don't place on a child the burden of making decisions in matters which are beyond his understanding. Don't give in to crying for things you have already refused. Don't threaten punishment unless you enforce it. Don't remind a child of past punishments as a warning against misconduct. Face each day anew. Don't let the child feel that you expect him to misbehave; let him understand and feel that you expect the best of him. Don't argue or quarrel with your child, Don't make liars and hypocrites of your children by forcing them to make apologies as evidence of repentane. Don't make profuse apologies to children when you find yourself in the wrong. Simply say: "I am sorry; I made a mistake." Don't punish in anger; wait until you have control of yourself before you attempt to control the child. Don't make unreasonable demands of your child. Don't assume the role of dictator. Don't carry the matter of discipline too far. There must be some elasticity. Don't say DON'T except when necessary. Don't leave it to the school and church to correct faults and build character in your child. Don't assume the attitude that your child can do no wrong. If he is accused of doing something wrong, don't be afraid of finding out the truth. Don't talk too much. Don't give too many commands. Don't gossip before your children. In fact, don't gossip at all. Don't embarrass your child by relating his mistakes before others. Don't spoil your child by telling of his virtues or accomplishments to others. Don't praise your child too much, but praise him enough to build up a desire to do his best. Don't snap at your child when he annoys you. Don't allow yourself to be easily annoyed. Don't interfere too much in the child's play. Don't tell morbid, mysterious, or distressing tales in the presence of your child. And don't forget that in all things you should be a good example to your child. DO'S Be happy! Your happiness and good nature will be reflected in your child. Sing at your work! Your song will teach your child that there is joy in work. 2% RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kkeep your voice low so that your children will have to listen to what you say. A rasping voice upsets sensitive nerves. Be sympathetic, kind, and understanding in helping your children to solve their problems. Laugh and be gay, your child will love you for it. Enter into their plans and you will have little to fear for their safety.:; Help them to adapt themselves to actual conditions. Help them to learn self-denial. Teach them to think before they speak, Teach them to be considerate of others. Be as courteous and polite to your child as you expect him to be to you. Be consistent in your discipline. Be absolutely truthful and honest in all matters. Be prepared to answer honestly his questions on the facts of life when he comes to you with them. Avoid as far as possible a clash in wills with your child. Rejoice with your child in his joys; sympathize with his sorrows. Teach your children appreciation of nature; the glory of the sunrise, the tranquility of the sunset, the majesty of a storm. Teach them industry and the joy of honest labor. Be willing to acknowledge that you do not know, if you do not, but that you will find out the answer to the question. If you make a mistake, be willing to say so. Your children will respect you for it. Teach your children respect for law, by obeying it in all things. Help them to see the joy of right doing. Remember that your children are individual; that you cannot treat them all alike. Study each child, and help him to develop his natural talents. Make your child love you for yourself and what you are, not just because you are his mother. Teach your children the value of money, not the love of possession, but the benefits of the wise use of it. Remember that the surest way to lose the confidence and love of your child is to laugh at his mistakes or problems. Inspire his confidence so that he will come to you when he needs information, encouragement, or help. Always remember that you have been entrusted with the greatest responsibility in the world, that of helping to develop a noble character and a future parent of the race.