Wares LF sth iA ok —( Nine ne & ay INN Home Building as an Art By President David O. McKay (Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 3, 1935) RETHREN and Sisters: From the reports I have seen and heard of this great conference, I have learned that every session has been well attended, but I had no idea, until I faced this great audience today, that you have had such large numbers. I congratulate the Presidency and members of the General Board upon this manifestation of appreciation on the part of the sisters of the Church of what the General Board is doing. I shall say a few words this afternoon on home-building as an art, but in so doing I have in mind the effect of that home upon society, and upon the individual in the Church and out of the Church. As we shall see, I look upon the home as the basis from which radiates all good influences, and sometimes, I am sorry to say, bad influences, which affect society. "What's the happiest time of a woman's life? Is it her schoolgirl days When thoughts and hopes half-formed are rife Amid her glad wild ways? Ah! No, not then. The happiest time is yet to come—but when? "What's the happiest time of a woman's life? Is it her virgin prime, When love awakes, ere she's a wife? Ts it that golden time? Ah! No, not then. A happier time is coming yet—but when? "Whee the happiest time of a woman's life? Is it her wedding day, When vows are pledged, and as a wife She's bound to him for aye? Say, is it then? Ah! No, not yet; the time is coming. When? "The happiest time of a woman's life; Ah! It has come at last; For, hark! I hear a little voice,' And footsteps toddling fast; And the happiest hours, I know, are these, When the children are playing about her knees.'"'* —Frances H. Lee. These stanzas indicate the phase of home-building to which I invite your attention this afternoon. It is an inspiring sight to look upon this large congregation of women engaged in the noble cause of home-building, and, therefore, nation-building. To this conference you have come from homes in different parts of these Western States, indeed from all parts of the United States. Such homes I have in mind as I speak of Home Building as an Art. If, in every home in the United States, there were a competent mother and a helpful father, our officers of the law would have much less to do in protecting society from the lawless. I make that statement as a basis from which to consider our theme: for I believe a competent mother in every home is the greatest need of the world today. At first thought some might object to my using the word art in connection with home-building, but art is defined as "The skilful and systematic arrangement or adaptation of means for the attainment of some end. The practical application of knowledge or natural skill to the attainment of a particular end." It *Used by permission of "Heart Throbs, Joe Mitchell Chapple, Inc., Boston." HOME-BUILDING AS AN ART 5 seems to me that the adaptation of knowledge and skill to the building of a beautiful home is the highest of attainments. In the true sense of the word, therefore, we are justified in speaking of home-building as an art. There are two synonyms of the word ari—one is business and the other profession. In the sense that we shall approach our theme today, home-building is not a business, neither is it a profession, in the ordinary sense of these terms, although to be a good housewife requires the application of true business ability, and to make a house attractive, especially with scanty furniture, and a few rugs, and a scarcity of curtains and drapes is a manifestation of professional skill. Word art to include something higher, nobler and more elusive than these. By the art of home-building, I mean the inculcating in the lives of children a nobility of soul that leads them instinctively to love the beautiful, the genuine, the virtuous, and as instinctively to turn from the ugly, the spurious, and the vile "We need not wealth nor splendor, Wide hall or lordly dome; The good, the true, the tender, These form the wealth of home." The Home and General Culture: Beaconsfield says that "the best security for civilization is the dwelling, and that upon properly appointed and becoming dwellings depends more than anything else the improvement of mankind. Such dwellings are the nursery of all domestic virtues, and without a becoming home, the exercise of those virtues is impossible." "In the homes of America," says Holland, "are born the children of America; and from them go out into American life men and women. They However, I use the - go out with the stamp of these homes upon them; and only as these homes are what they should be, will they be what they should be." TheAyrshire poet years ago said: "To make a happy fireside clime To weans and wife, That's the true pathos and sublime O' human life." In the art of home-building there should be manifest the work and skill of two artists, the father and the mother. If these work at cross purposes, the result of their efforts is frequently failure. If they work harmoniously, each supplying what the other needs, as they daily work upon their living creations, the result will likely be boys and girls who will be a credit and an adornment, not a blight or a curse to humanity. Applying the words of Tennyson in this regard: "These twain, upon the skirts of Time, Sit side by side, full summed in all their powers, Dispensing harvest, sowing the to be, Self-reverent each and reverencing each, Distinct in individualities, But like each other even as those who love!" WITHOUT discounting the worth and influence of the father, it is after all "the mother who makes most." I have said on more than one occasion in tribute to the mother, that the noblest calling in the world is Motherhood, and I wish to stress that because the world is getting away from the old idea of true motherhood, and we are getting away from the importance of the old-fashioned home. Girls of Zion, particularly I would have you repeat this thought, and have it in your minds always, that the noblest calling in the world is motherhood. True motherhood is the most beautiful of all arts, the greatest of all pro-  fessions. She who can paint a masterpiece, or who can write a book that will influence millions, deserves the admiration and plaudits of mankind; but she who rears successfully a family of healthy, beautiful sons and daughters, whose immortal souls will exert an -influence throughout the ages long after paintings shall have faded, and books and statues shall have decayed or have been destroyed, deserves the highest honor that man can give, and the choicest blessings of God. In her high duty and service to humanity in clothing with mortality eternal spirits, she ls co-partner with the Creator Himself. Womanhood should be intelligent and pure, because it is the living lifefountain from which flows the stream of humanity. Choosing the Mother: Oliver Wendell Holmes, referring to the making of a poet, says something about the necessity of beginning a hundred years before he is born. To have a mother artist in the home. It is equally important to look for inherited qualities and tendencies. The mother is influenced by her ancestry. I wish we could have our young men study pedigrees in the human family as they do in their cattle. I forget the man's name who said: "The first great argument that established a widespread belief in the inheritance of mental traits in man was Galton's famous work on hereditary genius. He showed that greatness and intellectual acumen run in families. "The Adams family of Massachusetts is a good illustration: John Adams, President of the United States; John Quincy Adams, President of the United States; Charles Francis Adams, Ambassador to Great Britain during the Civil War; Henry Adams, author of books that analyze himself unmercifully and that have set thousands of thoughtful souls wondering why they are here and what they are worth. Environment alone could not produce such a series of able men, nor proper training cause ordinary mortals to achieve what these men achieved." "We have heard about the famous Jukes family until many of us are tired of it. We have been told how the State of New York has spent upwards of $2,000,000 on this one family. We hear that six hundred or more of the Jukes tribe were living in New York in 1915, but only three were in institutions. We are told that if the original Max and his wife, or his two sons and the five sisters with whom they consorted, had been sterilized, the cost * would have been scarcely $250. If they had been segregated for life, the cost would scarcely have risen to $25,000, a pretty saving compared with $2,000,000; and the $2,000,000 does not include the value of the goods which the family stole, the loss inflicted by the family through murders and through the spread of disease, and the cost of the general trail of ruin which they left in their wake. Is the Jukes family unique? Not at all. There are probably many others of the same sort in the United States and in many other countries." Importance of Preparation in Young: It is important for young people to realize that intelligent home-building begins with a young man and a young girl in their teens; that often the health of their sons and daughters, if they be blessed with such, depends upon their actions before marriage. From the pulpit and press, and particularly in the home, there should ring the message more frequently that the boys and girls are laying the foundation for their future happiness or misery. Young men particularly HOME-BUILDING AS AN ART 7 must prepare for the great responsibility of fatherhood by keeping themselves physically clean that they may enter into that responsibility as a real man should enter, not as a coward or a deceiver. The young man who in uncleanliness takes upon himself the responsibility of fatherhood is worse than a deceiver. The future happiness of a wife and his children depends upon the young man's life in youth. I congratulate this Church on its ideal with regard to the single standard of chastity among our youth and there is no more important message should be given to the world today than the maintenance of that high standard. Let us also teach the girls thatmotherhood is divine, for when we touch the creative part of life we enter into the realm of divinity. It is important, therefore, that young womanhood realize the necessity of keeping their bodies clean and pure, that their children might enter the world unshackled by sin and disease. An unshackled birth, and an inheritance of a noble character are the greatest blessings of childhood. No mother has the right to shatter the life of a babe for what seems in youth to be a pleasant pastime. Those who are to be the mothers of a race should at least give us children who are unhampered, by sickness, blindness or deformities. Marriage and Career: In speaking of home-building, I would like to give you this afternoon a picture of happiness in married life. So many in this age think that it is burdensome, that mothers are confined too much to the house, and deprived of activity. No mother need be deprived of activity. Your presence here today is an illustration of how mothers can wield influence in social and economic matters. I read recently this beautiful description of married life: "Every period of human life is wonderful; the irresponsible age of childhood, the thrilling years of adolescence and loverhood; the productive, fighting, burden-bearing era of parenthood; but the most wonderful time of life comes when the father and mother become chums of their grown-up, successful sons and daughters, and can begin to enjoy their children's children. "Youth is confined with restrictions, limitations, schedules and dominations; adolescence is full of mysteries, longings and defeats; early fatherhood is absorbed in struggles and in the solution of problems; extreme old age is shadowed by eternal mysteries; but middle age and normal old age, if life has been rightly and fully lived, are filled with the thrills, not merely of success, but of companionship with children and grandchildren. "Every normal individual should complete the full cycle of human life with all its joys and satisfactions in natural order; childhood, adolescence, youth, parenthood, middle age and the age of grandchildren. Each age has satisfactions which can be known only by experience. Ye must be born again and again in order to know the full course of human happiness. When the first baby is born, a mother is born, a father is born, and grandparents are born; only by birth can any of these come into being. Only by the natural cycle of life can the great progressive joys of mankind be reached. Any social system which prevents the individual from pursuing the normal cycle of life, from marrying young, from rearing a family before the age of fifty or so, and from obtaining the deep, peculiar joys of middle life and grandparenthood defeats  the divine order of the universe and lays the basis of all sorts of social problems. * * * "When a new social system—an eugenic system—enables all men and women to start right and pursue this normal course of life, not only will many of our gravest social problems be solved, but old age will lose its terrors. The crowning joys of human experience will come in middle age and onward, through the companionship, love and honor of children and grandchildren." Broken Homes: "Well," some say, "that is all right in theory, but most homes are not that ideal." The husband is killed in an accident, and the woman is left alone. Misunderstandings arise; the result is a broken home. I grant you that, but I am appealing to you Relief Society women, and mothers all over the land, to influence men, and see to it that when we have such broken homes, we arrange to have the children remain with the mother. Here is a striking illustration of this as a social problem. Unfortunately I cannot give you the name of the place, but this mother's husband has been killed in an accident. She struggled along with the house that was left her the best she could, and finally had to go out to work. Those who visited the case said she could not look after her children properly, and so she sat before the court to hear the assignment of her little children to someone else's custody, and she said, "How much do you have to pay others for caring for my children?' This amounted to fifty dollars a month. "Well," said the mother, '"Can't I have that to take care of my own children?" "No, the law does not enable us to do that." There came into the room, while these proceedings were going on, a man who had just recently signed a bill enabling the State to help just such a mother, but it would not take effect until July of that year, and this was in May. He turned to the court and said, "I will give my check for the support of these little kiddies and their mother between now and the first of July, when the law goes into operation," and this mother went home to continue rearing her children, to keep and make them good citizens in this Republic. The Child, and Community and Group Influence: But it is not always from broken homes from which the nation receives difficulty, it is from incompetency. Our children go out and come under the influence of society —the press, with its space and headlines of the criminal news; the radio, the automobile, the picture shows and the immense commercialization of recreations, all tending, in a way, to provide for children what the home formerly provided for them, are utterly beyond the control of the home. "One stands aghast at the passivity of much of modern recreation. For these ventures, profit rather than social health must be chiefly the goal, and the organization has lost its local flavor, the body and spirit of the neighborhood association." Importance of Example: I know of no more potent factor in abating this community influence than the right kind of living in the home—the power of example on the part of parents. If we would teach a child honesty, we must be honest. I am not given much to the belief that it is preaching to the child that influences him—it is the spirit of the home. If we are dealing with the grocer, we deal with him honestly. If the child comes home with the wrong change, we send him back HOME-BUILDING AS AN ART 9 with it. It is living the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the home—we believe in God, and the child feels that we believe in Him. We do not condemn our neighbor in the presence of the child; we do not condemn the Authorities. We are social beings, and we sustain the law, and the child feels that sustaining power. Home the Birthplace of Obedience to Law or Lawlessness: Then again the child learns this truth, that there is operating in this old world a certain law. There are conditions with which he must comply, and with which he must conform, and against which he must not rebel. Now it is in the home where the child learns that. If you tell the child not to do a thing, and the child does it, and you let him go unrebuked, you are training him to a certain extent, no matter how infinitesimal it may be, in disobedience to law. Mothers and fathers, you are responsible for it. Another thing which a_ child should learn in the home is the matter of self-control. Home is the best place in the world for he submerges himself for the good of another; he controls his temper, and that is where father should control his, and mother should control hers, and the child will grow up in an atmosphere of self-mastery. When he gets out into society, and meets with his playmates, he realizes he must give them respect and consideration. When things do not go just to suit him, he must find himself master in the playground as he is in the home. In the home is the place to teach obedience and selfmastery. One of the first fundamental lessons which a child should learn, therefore, is that there are certain laws to which he must be subject. And to which he must conform. The home is the best place in the world to teach the child selfrestraint, to give him happiness in self-control, and respect for the rights of others. Unhappiness in the child's life, as in the adult life, springs largely from unconformity to natural and social laws. The home is the best place in which to develop obedience which nature and society will later demand. Helpful Agencies: In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the home has wonderful allies in the training of childhood and the development of these qualities. Every organization established is an aid to the home, and here we parents can contribute much, not only for the auxiliaries and for Priesthood quorums, but for the development of our own children. There are some parents who think they are conferring a favor upon the Primary, the Mutual, or the Sunday School if they send their children to these auxiliaries. The proper attitude is an appreciation of the results achieved by these fifty thousand men and women, who are contributing their time weekly, some of them almost daily, to help us in the rearing of our children. Summary: In conclusion I am going to summarize some ideals which we ought to keep in mind in youth particularly, and as adults to inculcate them in the minds of our growing children, which will help to establish, or achieve the art of home-building. Elements of True Home-building: 1. Let, us substitute the present tendency toward a low view of marriage by the lofty view which God gives it. Yesterday I stood at the Altar of the Temple, as I have stood. Many a time, and saw two hearts—  two souls—slipping into one, as two dew drops on the stem of a rose when the sun comes out in the morning, one slipping into the other, the two becoming one. That high view of marriage in the mind of that young bridegroom, and the appreciation of the sacredness of marriage by the bride, I think is one of the sublimest things in all the world. They had the high view of marriage, not a low view of it as a means of gratifying passion. Let us look upon marriage as a sacred obligation and a covenant as possibly an Eternal one. 2. Teach the young of both sexes in the responsibilities and ideals of marriage so that they may realize that marriage involves obligation, and is not an'arrangement to be terminated at pleasure. In this regard it is the duty of parents to set an example in the home that children may see and absorb, as it were, the sacredness of family life and the responsibility associated therewith. 3. Instruct young girls in the fundamental arts of housekeeping, so that when responsibilities of wifehood come, they may be free from the difficulties and perplexities which arise from ignorance and inexperience. 4. That marriages be solemnized, as far as possible, in the House of God. This will minimize the evils that follow run-away marriages. - 5. Keep religion in home life. We should make it obvious, both by our actions and our conversation, that we are seriously interested in religious things and believe in them ourselves: faith in God, in the divine mission of Jesus Christ, and in the Restoration of the Gospel. Our religion should also take the form of honesty in our dealings with our family, our neighbors, and all with whom we come in contact; of kindness to our employees, or fair play to our employers; and good measure to our customers. "Talk about these intangibles should become as common practice in our homes and offices as talk about golf, parties, and profits if we want to succeed in solving the family problem." To give young people the right start in life we must discuss with our children and friends questions of motive and subjects like birth, love, marriage, death and destiny. Babson says: ''One of the best things that could happen to America today would be a return to family prayers; the getting together after breakfast or in the evening five or ten minutes for simple family worship! The saying of Grace before meals would be a step in this direction." JI am glad that that practice is general, I hope, throughout the Latter-day Saint homes. 6. Teach the young that the foundations of a happy home are laid before even the bride and _ bridegroom kneel at the marriage altar. Sisters and brethren, The responsibility of the Relief Society is to aid the Priesthood in establishing the Kingdom of God, in relieving the suffering and giving succor to the poor, and in many ways to contribute to the peace and happiness of the world. In no. One way can these high achievements be better realized than in excelling in the art of homebuilding. With all my heart I say God bless you, beloved mothers— sisters— as you keep before the public the ideals revealed by our Father in Heaven for the betterment of society, and particularly for the permanence and sacredness of the home. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. CAutumn (Awarded First Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) By Blanche Kendall McKey I cannot-sing the beauty of this day— My heart pays tribute, but its throb is still. These gorgeous tints are rich but never gay; There is a tearlike mist o'er lake and hill. Where are the deep-blue smiling eyes of June? Soft air, laden with syringa breath? The witchery of the hushing summer moon? The bursting bud that knows no hint of death? My heart is longing ever for the green— My heart that rioted with dancing Spring. Ah, Autumn, sorrow brought your regal mien; My solemn soul salutes, but cannot sing. O little heart, lie still and learn for aye You cannot hold the madness of young May! _— 11 "Watchman, What of the Night?"