Kimball, Poem Contest Committee Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary Cottonwood Stake COTTON WOOD Stake is especially proud of its Maternity Hospital, which was founded a little more than ten years ago, under the direction and supervision of the Relief Society of Cottonwood Stake. It is located at 414 East 56th South Street, Murray, Utah, away from the busy din of a much traveled thoroughfare. The institution owes much of its success to the fine supervision, executive ability and untiring efforts of the women directing it. At present Sister Lovina H. McMillan, president of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and her board members, are supervisors of the institution, with the first counselor, Lyle M. Berry in charge. During the past year there were two hundred and twenty-one births, with three sets of twins. More than two thousand children have been born in the institution. Patients from all parts of Utah and some from Idaho, Colorado, Nevada and Wyoming have patronized it. During the past year, two hundred and forty new articles were made, in addition to mending and repairing articles necessary in the hospital. This was accomplished at the Work and Business Meeting of Relief Society. The sisters also put up seven hundred quarts of fresh fruits, jams, pickles and relishes for use in the hospital. The public clinic in connection with the hospital has successfully served mothers in the work done among the pre-school children. Following the close of the hospital clinic the work was carried on in the City Hall by Murray City. The Salt Lake County Health Department has cooperated splendidly in providing the nursing service. The clinic is held on the first and third Thursday of each month, and funds from the Relief Society are provided through the Wheat Trust Fund. The clinic has been of inestimable value to the mothers of the community, and during the last year conducted examinations of 120 children, 66 new babies, and gave 368 physical examinations. Following the suggestion of the General Board the Relief Society instituted a Stake Library, which was organized and conducted by Sister Jane P. Bowers of the Stake Board, who is also the librarian and Magazine Agent. This work is conducted each month through regular classes in the Union Meetings. The newest methods of handling library work are being studied and given to the sisters. The Relief Society of the stake is very much pleased with the Project. The stake board purchased Aids to the Project enough to provide each pair of Visiting Teachers with a copy, and in some of the wards enough copies were given so that each Relief Society member might have one. North Weber Stake MOST interesting project was put into effect by the North Weber Stake. This took the form of a remodeling school sponsored by the Home and Community section of the Wilson Farm Bureau, with the Wilson Ward Relief So-  ciety cooperating. The school was conducted two days a week for three. Weeks. It included practical work of cleaning, pressing, cutting and sewing, as well as part of the time being given to a discussion of possibilities of remodeling, workmanship, finishes, color, line, design and pattern alterations. Local leaders secured several long work-tables, and sent their own machines to the ward hall for public use during these classes. Two women were appointed each work day as hostesses to take Stake was very interesting and profitable, and Winter work started with characteristic spirit and was carried through to a most successful conclusion. The Magazine Drive was started with the play as outlined in the Magazine, and the accompanying picture the St. George South Ward in costume, together with the Ward Presidency. On Saturday, June 22, a most delightful outing was held. This took the form of a teachers' convention, though all the members of the Relief Society were invited NORTH WEBER STAKE charge of the work program, to make arrangements for luncheon and entertainment of the young children' while their mothers were at work. Two trained demonstrators coming from the Utah Agricultural College were unable to take care of the great numbers of women who came, so local women were called to assist. Garments of every description were re-made, ranging from ladies' dresses and coats to children's overcoats and suits. St. George Stake URING the last year the Summer activity of the St. George and participated. The group met at the recreation center in Pine Valley, and more than 260 responded from the eleven wards in the stake. Central Ward, with an enrollment of 17 had 15 present; Leeds Ward with 25, had its entire membership in attendance; while St. George West Ward had 55, and other wards had an excellent representation. At the outdoor amphitheater each ward contributed one number toward the program. Prizes were given to the oldest, the youngest and the longest in service of the Visiting Teachers. Luncheon was served at one o'clock, NOTES FROMM Te Tieep 4/7 ST. GEORGE, SOUTH WARD the Sacrament service on many occaand each ward contributed its portion. The afternoon was spent in games, stunts and an impromptu program. Such gatherings as this do much to create the spirit of fellowship among the members, and supply a fine type of recreation. Ogden Stake HE following report from the Thirteenth Ward of the Ogden stake is quite characteristic of the whole stake. The lesson work has been conducted in a most interesting and efficient manner under the various ward officers and class leaders. In the Thirteenth Ward a kindergarten class is conducted during Relief Society, and this had made it possible for many of the young mothers to attend and get the benefit of the wonderful lessons and have their children well occupied. Through the efforts of the Music Department a well organized ladies' chorus has rendered music for the meetings, and furnished numbers for sions. The Visiting Teachers have performed a wonderful work, and are always ready to respond to any call that is made. In this one ward alone 2,059 visits to the homes have been made. The scriptural reading project has been very successfully carried into effect, and 39 books of the Old Testament have been read and short reports given by the members. The quilting committee has donated several fine quilts, and the regular activities of the Relief Society have been very successfully carried through and much social entertainment has been derived through the gatherings. Logan Stake UNE 5th marked the fifteenth anniversary of the Logan Stake Relief Society, and a very delightful entertainment was held to commemorate the occasion. The stake board gave a luncheon honoring the retired  and active ward presidents. All board members and Relief Society presidents of the near-by stakes were invited to be guests, as well as representatives from the General Board. About 60 were in attendance. The party was held in the Logan Second Ward Recreation Hall. Luncheon tables were most artistically decorated with yellow tulips and blue painted daisies, representing the Relief Society colors. Early summer flowers and green were used effecSouthern States VERY interesting and progressive report comes from the Southern States Mission. Following a tour of the mission, Sister Ina Richards writes: "Brother Richards and I have just returned from a most enjoyable trip through the very beautiful State of Florida, visiting the various branches and holding conferences. Our Relief Societies are doing some excellent work. We have a few large organizations in the NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION tively in the decorations. In the evening all ward officers, class leaders and visiting teachers were entertained. A sacred play in keeping with the Bible Project for the year was presented with appropriate lighting effects and special music. Refreshments were served to about 250 guests. North Central States Mission "THE St. Paul, Minnesota Branch of the North Central States Mission celebrated Anniversary Day ina most delightful manner. A part of the celebration took the form of a play, as shown in the picture. Florida conference and many small ones, but all doing conscientious, consistent work, and following the full program as outlined for us. It is wonderful to see how our members measure up to the tasks given them. In Miami we have had a very successful year. Not once during the season has the appointed lesson been missed or the teacher in charge been absent. Although we are far out of your reach we are very close to you, and sometimes in the work and literature you send us we almost feel your dear hearts beat. This branch cooperates with Civic Welfare leaders, and while I was NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 there a number of them were invited to hear something of our work during one afternoon. They were very intelligent, cultured women, about twelve in all, and they asked for our social welfare program. We had a very happy and profitable time together. We are indeed grateful for all fine women who are interested in solving the perplexing problems of our fellowmen. In Atlanta they have recognized us as a social unit and we are able to assist the Ladies' Auxiliary in connection with the Grady Hospital, which is a very large one. Due to this recognition, the lady missionaries spend two hours each Monday distributing library books and some of our own splendid literature. Emery Stake SPLENDID work has been done in the Emery Stake on the Project. The office is in receipt of the report of the scripture reading from the Huntington Relief Society as it is rendered in its regular project meeting. The work is put on a fine study basis, using the Aid to the Project as the subject matter for consideration, but much original work on the part of the Relief Society sisters has been added to this. A picture collection has been a wonderful addition. These pictures are the means of demonstrating the spirit of the Books as they are presented. The material is collected from all sources. The Emery Stake Relief Society held its Annual Day on June 30, 1935, at the Wilberg resort near Castle Dale. The Relief Society members invited their husbands, and the Bishops with their Counselors participated in the pleasant event. Five hundred responded to the invitation. The evening entertainment began with a luncheon at seven o'clock. This was followed by dancing and appropriate games. All voted it one of the most successful gatherings ever held. Missionaries to depart in the near future for various missions called from Hooper Ward, Weber Stake, and their Relief Society mothers. Top row, left to right: Carl Manning going to Czechoslovakia, Jennie Aldous Manning, Milton G. Widdison, German-Austrian Mission; Lillian Gardner Widdison, Carl Hooper, Australian Mission; Luella Hobson Hooper, Dean Flowers, French Mission; Cora Q. Flowers. Front row, left to right: Jay Beus, Argentine Mission, Susan Parker Beus; Wendel T. Belnap, Western States Mission, Zina Taylor Belnap; Raymond E. Widdison, Swiss-German Mission; Leah Widdison.  


Vol. XXIII JANUARY, 1936 No. 1 Ring in Peace and Fellowship and Love As the New Year dawns and the Old passes into history, we look fondly back on 1935 realizing that it has been a wonderful time in which to live. We have enjoyed all that science has given in the past few years, such gifts as would seem impossible were we not enjoying them?radio, electricity, central heating, luxurious travel?one wonders what more the future can bring. Yet with all these material blessings, the world is not advancing morally and spiritually as it should. A thoughtful writer pertinently says "Ways for killing time and killing human beings have multiplied greatly in number and efficiency. There has been no increase in thoughtfulness, intellectual and moral independence, or rational self-determination. Great sums are raised for education and other forms of charity, but the result is not an increase in the proportionate number of rational self-respecting and self-determining human individuals. The opportunities for the individual to spend his time and energy and means are ever multiplying, but his capacity to make in use of these opportunities wisely shows no increase." As the year closes we see nations preparing for war. People look into futurity fearfully, dreading what it may bring, for there is unrest, widespread fault-finding and disloyalty everywhere. There is need for a renassiance of the old-time virtues of peace, loyalty, good-will, brotherhood and love. So as we peer into the future, we hope 1936 will bring peace to warring nations, a spirit of helpfulness among individuals and nations, an increase of individual and national unselfishness, a spirit of building up rather than tearing down, of giving a helping hand, of dwelling upon people's virtues rather than magnifying their weaknesses. May the New Year bells ring in a year of peace and fellowship and love.