A Challenge to Women By Lorene Pearson VERYONE is conscious of the economic crisis in relation to incomes; but it is a question how many people realize what deep reverberations there have been in the realm of human lives. Men have had their hands full trying to solve money matters. How many women have looked long and thoughtfully within their special province, the home, to decide what measures must be taken to insure—or recapture—the spiritual integrity of the family? Some have already met the foe, some would like to, some, certainly have not awakened to the peril. In all of us perhaps, there is a little lagging behind the real necessity to action. 'It has been said that the real spiritual life of a community has its inception at the family fireside. This was true of pioneer days when the chief unit of security lay in the tiny house within the wilderness; and it is no less true today when we sometimes seem to be pioneering in an impenetrable morass. But it was not the hollow shell of the house that defended family unity and _ spirituality in a hostile land in the early days, it was the intangible thing that might rightly be called the genius of mothers. Everything depended upon the sense of responsibility in the mother and she assumed it with astonishing dependability, else an empire could not have been built upon a desert. ]X times as troublous and uncharted as these it seems rational that we might go back and see just what these women did to preserve the home—-the unit upon which all foundations rest—just how they maintained serenity and balance and spiritual integrity through the crises that beset them as surely as the present ones beset us. First, I think, they knew the value of industry of order, of mutual cooperation and they realized that the reward would be a release and flow of gladness and thankfulness in spite of a very difficult world. But most important, I think, they felt the craftsman's responsibility; they felt they must create out of the plastic materials of their families, a beautiful unit in itself, one that could eventually dissolve and reshape into many. More units. And they felt the necessity of passing this intangible quality on to their children. But these women lived in days of stress; there has been a gap, a slackening, a carelessness; now again the days of stress have come and we are looking back to a creative age for help. Women have always come to the front courageously, have learned to handle the difficulty that beset them, have taken over the responsibility of seeing that corroding conflicts between the outer world and the inner do not demoralize their families. But this time they are tremendously handicapped in attacking the problem. The thread from our creative grandmothers to the present has been broken or greatly attenuated. There is a gap. But it can be bridged if we are willing to work, to be industrious, to be alert and if we will realize at the outset that there is a certain retrogression in excessive, time-killing, aimless leisure. A CHALLENGE TO WOMEN 15 ERHAPS it is well to attack the worst at the outset—our new freedom. I cannot help but feel we have misused it. Not that I think women should discard labor saving devices, not at all, but I do think they should re-direct some of their leisure. I could never understand how a game of any kind played idly through the afternoon could possibly compare with the fun of planning, cutting out, and making a dress. Or what is more satisfying than a lovely cake intelligently made from the abstraction of a recipe? A woman who has never experienced pleasure of this type has lost some of her abilities as a woman and has easily let freedom become laziness. I am inclined to think that the trouble traces easily to the fact that women no longer have a feeling for craftsmanship — they don't know how to do things either well or beautifully. The pioneers understood careful workmanship because many of them came from countries where a long apprenticeship for a trade prepared them for whatever they undertook to do in life. America has had little tradition of really fine artisanship and what tradition was developed has now degenerated into a kind of bravado that applauds any man or woman who turns a hand to this or that job without regard to the subsequent slip-shod careless result; but its bearing upon the home of today is even of a more striking consequence. How many young women think it smart to confess they are perfectly helpless with a needle, or even, in some cases, with a canopener. What can the mother of those girls have been thinking about? Well, honestly, she probably wasn't thinking at all and the ease and extravagance of the boom waylaid her, pounced on her new found freedom and the situation I pictured above is now staring us in the face. The mother not only became slack in performing tasks at home but she forgot the art of teaching her girls what little she did know. It seemed easier to shift the burden to the shoulders of the teachers in the schools, a less practical and a less thorough (necessarily so by limitation of time and place) training than could have been given at home. The loss of the sense of real craftsmanship is very great, but greater yet was the loss of a precious bit of companionship and understanding that would have gone hand in hand with the completion of a mutual task. Mother and daughter could have become attached to each other more firmly than either will ever know. It is a part of the spiritual satisfaction of the home that members of the family learn to work together; but it has to be by learning, it is not an attribute that comes with birth. Yet I have heard many mothers say, "Oh, I can't be bothered." Is it any wonder then that one may hear among the young girls such flippant remarks as this: "I'm not so dumb! If I don't know how to clean a chicken or make a dress I'll never have to will I?" That's a rather appalling attitude when we realize that in the long run most women are going to find themselves responsible for a household. She is taking what seems to her the easiest path—the negative one—something like going down hill even though your goal is at the top. And she is not only taking the longest way to gain an end (for herself) but she is missing all the joy of accepting a task and accomplishing it beautifully. Yes, I think cleaning and quartering a chicken may be beautiful if precision and knowledge and craftsmanship born of apprenticeship are applied  to the task. Oh, yes, and a willingness to use good old fashioned elbow grease. But this precludes the easy path and women have tried for a long time to drift along without effort. Yet, I think the real meaning of industry and cooperation in the home must be frankly faced and analyzed. What happened to our old joy of work? The answer is probably simpler and more insidious than is generally realized. We've listened too attentively to the advertisers and their luxury lures. We've been told we were drudges and we believed the man who was after our dollars and little concerned with our innate peace and happiness. We were gullible. We no longer believed that there was anything creative in keeping a home in order with simple tools that we could afford, of making clothes out of materials within our reach, of cooking a good meal with what was available, in short, of keeping house beautifully with what we had. We refused to adapt ourselves to what our lives held, we longed and clamored for more than had been alotted to us. Not that I approve of poverty, not at all, but it is more within the province of a man's life to deal with the problem of provision. The problem of the woman is to do cheerfully and intelligently with what his efforts have been able to achieve. Every living person, no matter what his place in society, has limitation of worldly goods. It is well to recognize one's limits in temporal things and thereby, paradoxically, create a world without limit in spiritual things. This point was not overlooked by our pioneer forebears. But of course there has been the voice of the advertiser to teach us quite another thing; to teach us that a woman, every woman, should have all that her neighbor has, to tell her that a home-made davenport would be laughed at, that a home-made dress never has the chic of one created in a factory. HEN besides the ballyhoo that we should spend more than we have, we've listened to the purely economic falsehoods that have to do with making things for ourselves. How many times have I been told I couldn't afford to put up my own fruit or make my own dress. Why, my time was worth much more than the few cents more it would cost me to have someone else do the work. Aside from bad effects of destroying our sense of craftsmanship, it has been successfully proven in laboratories (and in my own home as well) that a woman can compete very successfully with most factory made products. And get a nominal wage for her time (after she has become skillful). I've often wondered, parenthetically, how much a woman figured her time was worth while at a matinee or an afternoon party. We must not forget that we live in an age that is money conscious, an age that overshadows other values. So besides the purely practical side to this matter of affording to spend our time at homely tasks there is the other value that must be carefully weighed by every woman. We must decide whether we can afford not to do the things that make a house a home. Do we want to recapture the spiritual qualities that go with the old cooperative industry in the home, supervised, created by a mother? Can we afford not to teach little girls and big girls how to manage on what they have, how to make more of every penny they have by using skill that should be a birthright, how, above all things to learn the spiritual value of industry? Ma CHALLENGE HAVE heard cvuntless women say that they seemed so useless at home sometimes, that they had the feeling that if they'd just go away things would go on pretty much the same without them. I dare say most women have experienced this subtle warning at some time or other. It is a warning that ought to be listened to very carefully and ought to be heeded if women are to become as genuinely necessary to the home as the bread-winner in the family. But there are reassuring signs that the mothers and some of the daughters too are making real effort to revive the pioneer spirit of flexible adaptation, to make themselves indispensable economically and spiritually within the home. One group of women I know learned to card wool and have made beautiful fluffy quilts as in the days of old; the piecing of coverlets is an indication not precisely of thrift although it may have that implication, but of a revival of industry and the satisfactions it involves; and quilting bees are signs that group gatherings can become something other than the opportunity for idle gossip or other methods of aimless time-killing. And TO WOMEN 17 might I say that some women are discovering that the making of bread '—the special woman-rite for untold centuries—has the remarkable quality of putting a woman at peace with the world. These women have rediscovered the basic rhythms of creative living. They have woven their new education of art and music and literature into the woof of homely tasks. "THIS is no commandment to go compeltely back to the past, to do away with labor-saving devices, to be utterly satisfied with a limited income; it is a plea to take stock of the situation, to see whereby you can aid in the re-orientation of this chaos-ridden world, to define for yourself the part you can play in helping your family, and ultimately the community in which you live. It is a challenge to adapt yourself, to re-capture the spirit of the pioneer, to develop an indomitable will to make the most of what lies at hand. We have so infinitely many possibilities that our forefathers were denied, that, surely, out of these we should be able to build up a spiritually satisfying life, an empire within ourselves as they built an empire out of a desert. The GREAT BOOK OF WISDOM F I may be pardoned a personal reference, my father, as devout a man as ever lived, early impressed upon my youthful mind and heart the value of Solomon's advice. He would call me in from work a little before noon to read and comment on a chapter in Proverbs. J am afraid that I did not always appreciate the priceless wisdom of the book from which he read. But when he died, just after I reached my twentieth year, I recalled his interest in the words of Solomon and read Proverbs through once a month for a year—an easy task, since there are just thirty-one chapters in the book. I so fully share in the high estimate that he placed upon Proverbs that I have lost no opportunity to commend them to young men. The proverbs, like the epigram, is valuable because it says a great deal ina few words. It puts truth in its most effective form because it can be easily remembered. —William Jennings Bryan.,