I was great at cards and was fond of gambling in every 52 shape. I was very proud of these achievements, but one day my father called me to him and said, 'David, what do you intend to be?' 'I mean to follow the sea,' I answered. 'Follow the sea,' repeated my father? "Yes, be a poor, miserable, drunken sailor before the mast, kicked and cuffed about and die in some fever hospital in a foreign clime.' 'No, father,' I said proudly, 'I will tread the quarter deck and command as you do.' 'No, David, no boy ever trod the quarter deck with such principles as you have and such habits as you exhibit. You will have to change your whole course of life if you ever become a man.' I then "Star ANNA JOHNSON, the author of "Echoes" and "Oriental Rhymes," has just gotten out a new book "Star Dust." This volume is dedicated to Ruth May Fox and is a friendship book. It has a lovely thought for every day in the year. Scattered throughout the book are numbers of blank pages where thoughts and quotations may be jotted down. We quote some lovely lines from this book. "Rejoice in the beauty of sunrise, When light is beginning to shine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE formed a resolution and from that time on I never uttered another oath, never drank intoxicating liquors and never gambled." And so this boy who was headed for destruction, through the talk with his father and the resolutions then formed, became a great man in history. Would that many other boys and girls would form similar resolutions and cease drinking, swearing, smoking and gambling. These evils are on the increase and all parents should do everything in their power to restrain their children from becoming addicts to liquor and tobacco and forming habits that will lead to their eventual ruin. ?Dust"' Throw open your heart to the splendor That flashes a message divine." Nature. "Pure thoughts are true and silent friends That cheer our lonesome hours. They smile from gardens of the soul Like dainty bright-eyed flowers. While other things grow commonplace And fancies drift apart, We'll find good thoughts are company That cheer the aching heart." Good Thoughts.