John Blackmore, M. P. By C. Frank Steele IS name is Blackmore—John H. Blackmore—and he was born in the famous potato state of Idaho. Sublett was his birth-place, but no one ever dreamed more than 40 years ago that their little settlement would give to the Parliament of Canada its first "Mormon" member. Yet it has for that honor has come to Mr. Blackmore. In the last general election in the dominion of Canada, Mr. Blackmore was elected in the federal constituency of Lethbridge, defeating four other strong candidates including Brigadier-General J. S. Stewart, veteran parliamentarian and Great War veteran. The young Latter-day Saint campaigner, nominated by the new Social Credit party which earlier in the year was swept into power in Alberta, won comfortably over all his opponents and thus will be the first member of the "Mormon" church to win a seat in any national parliament in the British Empire. This is no mean distinction, as the friends of Mr. Blackmore realize. But that is not all. Other honors awaited the Raymond school teacher and church worker, father of nine growing children and son of an English immigrant to Utah and Idaho in the early years of the expansion of the church. When it was learned that 17 members representing the new "Banish Poverty" party has been elected in Alberta and Saskatchewan, a caucus was called. And the unanimous choice for their party leader in the House of Commons at Ottawa was the Lethbridge member—''Johnny" Blackmore. Now while all this political history was being written around her son in Alberta, a little "Mormon" mother, typical of those strong, God-feariny pioneer women who have played such a large part in the "Winning of the West," was visiting a married daughter in Moab, Utah. She was mighty proud, of course, of her son's achievements even though a bit bewildered by it all. Perhaps it fulfilled her dreams for her son for, as Mr. Blackmore says, "It was my mother who gave me my start. I had an accident when I was a small child that left me a cripple. I was ten before I attended school yet lony before that mother taught me to read and write, gave me a love of literature and art and music and a faith in God that have been a source of strength and confidence all through my life. Mother worked hard and uncomplainingly during those early days of pioneering in Canada and she taught her children the lessons of thrift, of patience, of devotion to duty. She always taught us to work faithfully at our tasks without thought of reward. Cherish virtue, was another of her teachings. In such an environment I was raised and now looking back I realize what all this homely guidance has meant in my life," said the town schoolmaster who overnight became a celebrity in the political life of Uncle Sam's northern neighbor. Mr. Blackmore was raised in the Cardston district going through the public and high schools and then to the University of Alberta. He received his B. A. Degree from Alberta majoring in education. He entered the teaching profession making a  marked success in the field. Early in the life of the new Canadian party he came out as a strong advocate and being an able platform man, a close student of economics and public affairs and possessing a friendly personality he quickly rose to a position of prominence. He married Miss Emily Woolley, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Leo Woolley of Raymond, and formerly of Utah, and they have nine children, four sons and five daughters. When Mr. Blackmore goes to Ottawa he will meet Miss Agnes Macphail, distinguished member of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and an outstanding Canadian woman. Miss Macphail was the first woman elected to the Canadian parliament. That she has been a success in the eyes of her constituents is revealed by the fact she is now entering on her 15th year in the house. She is an able and challenging speaker, witty in debate and possesses a clear, flexible mind. Her unfailing humor has helped her greatly during her long public career. Miss Macphail has often spoken in the United States and was the first woman representative from Canada to the Assembly of the League of Nations at Geneva. She served with distinction on the Disarmament Committee of the League. Prison reform in the past few years has found in. Miss Macphail an outspoken champion. It is a singular coincidence that these two members of a similar faith, one living in the east, the other in the west, should be neighbors in parliament. But destiny plays some strange and unexpected tricks. Both have pronounced leanings to the cause of the common man and to that humanitarian outlook seeking better world understanding and a lasting peace based on Christian principles.