The Cover Frontispiece 'Art Layout Illustrations <—. MARY AND HER SON You must have wondered When he went away How they would receive him... Tall and gentle Son. All his words were wheat Within your fields, But remembering Egypt And the hidden flight, You feared that stony Acres stretched before Him now and thorns. In firelanes at dusk You heard the laws Fall, as if fresh minted, From his tongue. His Parables were beautiful To you, yet | believe You sensed the coming sword. All this before his shadow Quit your door, Your warm loaf napkined In his lonely hand. For you The spinning, candlemaking, Fleece Oh, heavy, heavy wheel Oh, wheel of wood Turning toward the doorway Where he stood. —Margery S. Stewart r $24, ee. *) ——S. 7 ia - Sue 7 ae 'Flight Into Egypt''—Murillo (1617-1682) Trarisparency supplied by the Detroit Institute of Arts Reproduced with permission Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press 'Come Follow Me'''—Painting by John T. Harwood Reproduced by permission of Brigham Young University The original of this painting hangs in the library of the Joseph Smith Building Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Fam Near and Ser ™ | thank you so much for your careful selection of uplifting stories and articles in our beautiful Relief Society Magazine. Nothing has hit home so closely for a long time as Rosa Lee Lloyd's story ''Moment Out of Time,'' in the August (1968) issue. It is a beautiful story, beautifully told. | thank the wens Society for all the help | receive for my family and our home. Marie Depew, Payson, Utah My August (1968) Magazine came today and, of course, | was pleased with my story in it ('Kitchen Money''), but | was especially pleased with the illustrations (by Mary Scopes). She does a beautiful job. The characters illustrated were just as | had pictured them in my mind, particularly Jase and Mrs. Bryson. Please give the illustrator a special thanks for me. The illustrations add so much to the interest and charm of the Magazine. 7. _ Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah We appreciate the Magazine and look forward to receiving it each month. Very often the sisters tell me how much they enjoy the Magazine and they feel it gets even better with each issue. Bonnie B. Singleton, President, Atlanta Stake Relief Society, Chamblee, Georgia The Relief Society Magazine is a constant inspiration to the women in our stake. May you always be blessed for your part in it. Evelyn R. Bluth, Preident, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, Santa Monica, California | have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for over twenty years, but ha been reading only the lesson departments and sometimes the editorials. | didn't think | had time to read the entire Magazine, but now | take time to read it from cover to cover. | love all of it. | certainly didn't know what | was missing. Loretta G. Hansen, Tremonton, Utah We do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine here, more than ever. When we have the Magazine, it is possible to organize and carry on a Relief Society regardless of the size of the group. The Magazine is enjoyed by members and nonmembers alike. Isabel H. Cannon, Supervisor, Central British Mission Relief Society, Walmley, England We want to express our appreciation for the wonderful articles in the Magazine, especially the editorial in the September issue—''It Is the Little Things That Count" (by Counselor Louise W. Madsen), and the one on visiting teaching ''Because They Care' (by Zelma R. West, member of the General Board of Relief Society). We used excerpts from both of these writings for our visiting teachers convention, and they were very much appreciated. Myrtle R. Rogers, President, Olympia Stake Relief Society, Olympia, Washington In 1967 | was called to the position of Magazine representative for Ward Four in the Perth Stake, Western Australia. Never have | enjoyed working for Heavenly Father as | have done in this rewarding position. Not only have | met practically all the sisters in the ward, but also many inactive members who were grateful to receive the truly inspired Magazine. It is a wonderful gift and also a missionary tool. Nona Stopher, Mt. Pleasant, West Australia | would like to express my gratitude for the beautiful message in ''Because They Care"' (by Zelma R. West) in the September Magazine. Having been called recently to serve as president of the Lakeview Ward Relief Society, | realize more than ever the importance of visiting teaching and the need to visit each sister in the ward. Our lives are truly enriched by The Relief Society Magazine. Jo Beth Bradley, Springfield, Idaho 
The Relief Society =A Magazine volume 55 December 1968 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 884 The Need of Family Influence Alvin R. Dyer 890 'The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1968 Evon W. Peterson 900 #£With a Heart Full of Gratitude Relva B. Ross 905 Christmas Seals for 1968—A Partridge in a Pear Tree Fiction 893 Grandmother for Christmas Dorothy C. Robinson 906 =A Story for Christmas Jody Shields 912 Her Best Was Enough Cora Hill Arnold 932 Welcome the Task—Chapter 2 Michele Bartmess General Features 882 From Near and Far 901 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 902 _—-Editorials—The 138th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church; Far From Bethlehem Vesta P. Crawford 960 _ _—s Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out Now Let the Time of Christmas Be Told 913; Christmas Home for the Children, Oa J. Cannon 914; Cookies for the Children, Dora D. Flack 916; Candy Animals—A Family Tradition, Leone J. Layton 918; Christmas Comes to Denmark, Inga H. Nielsen Dougal 920; Christmas Is for Friends, Tasma P. Dansie 922; Christmas Comes to Australia, Margaret Felt 924; A Pioneer Christmas 925; A Genealogical Christmas -Tree, Gladys Hibbard Eccles 926; A Christmas Clown 926; Christmas Heritage in Rialto Stake 927; ''Look Books'' for the Little Ones 928; The Honor of Being a Mother, Roxana Farnsworth Hase 930; Hobby Features: Lula Jameson Taylor, Martha Jane Chappel Head 931. Lesson Department Lessons for: Northern Hemisphere: March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 937 = Spiritual Living—Salvation for the Dead Roy W. Doxey 943 Visiting Teacher Message—''Draw Near Unto Me and | Will Draw Near Unto. You." Alice Colton Smith - 944 Homemaking—Take Pride in What You Have Celestia J. Taylor 946 ~==Social Relations—That We May Be One Alberta H. Christensen 951 Cultural Refinement—''The Appreciation of Beauty'' Bruce B. Clark Poetry 881 Mary and Her Son Margery S. Stewart David, Udora Morris 899; Faith, Catherine B. Bowles 900; Told By a Shepherd Boy, Sylvia Probst Young 904; The Present, Mary Hunter 911; South Window, Ardith M. McBride 930; The Star We Share, Dorothy O. Rea 936; First Hurt, Christie Lund Coles 442; The Artist's Touch, Alda Larson Brown 950; Retrospect, Ruth G. Rothe 955; Remembered Summer, Vesta N. Fairbairn 958; Marriage, Katherine F. Larson 958; Happiness, Zara Sabin 960. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

The Need of Family Influence President Alvin R. Dyer. Of the First Presidency {Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] O I think this afternoon we have listened to talks of great wisdom and very high caliber which bespeak the leadership of this great organization today. I have always felt that the Church and kingdom of God is highly benefited by the Relief Society organization as it continues under its present great leadership, to carry out with intelligence and spirit, the purpose for which it was organized. This morning in meeting with President McKay, who gave the appointment for me to be here today, he asked to have his heartfelt feelings and blessings expressed to you of the Relief Society at this meeting, and there is, perhaps, no one on earth today who appreciates more the value and purpose of this great organization. My remarks today go more directly to the individual than anything else, and particularly to the influence a mother can wield in the lives of her children. The greatest asset of America is not its mineral and oil wealth, not its industries or stockpiles of atomic and hydrogen power, not in its ability to explore space in search of answers to the mysteries of the universe, not even in its great universities, and perhaps not even in its religious institutions, in the freedom of which our constitution was 884 Soe a Fs founded. America's greatest asset lies in the potential of her people or the potential of the individual. Man is greater than that which he creates, and God is greater than his ruling power. HOME, THE CENTER OF CIVILIZATION The greatest asset to the individual is the home, where the Initiation to mortal life is that of a warm, loving, and righteous atmosphere of a family. A place where the bumps and hurts of childhood and the quandaries of adolescent years find refuge, understanding, and_ strength; a place that, regardless of what might be twisted and out of order on the outside, will be organized and at peace on the inside. The home is the center, the bulwark of civilization; it is not in the state, nor is it in any system that would control the individual. Freedom and the exercise of agency within that freedom is, as has already been spoken of today several times, the God-given right of agency of every man and woman. And this finds its highest expression in the citadel of the home, for the home is the center of civilization, and the primary responsibilities of the home rest upon the parents. The greatest trust that can come to a man and woman in this life is the placing in their keeping the well-being and training of a spirit child of God, for which they have provided a physical body. Concerning this the Lord has said, "they shall teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (D & C 68:28.) In ancient times, in the days of the patriarchs, the family life was the whole of life. One of these patriarchs proclaimed this: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." (Proverbs 22:6.) A full interpretation of this scripture implies a way of righteous living on the part of the parents and a teaching of this way unto the children. One would be blind to the truth, or completely apathetic, if the perils, turbulence, and confusion of our modern times were not recognized. As the core of our civilization, it is the problem of the home to stabilize the famThe Need of Family Influence ily unit; for parents to seek for and take on new strength to meet this problem. The safeguarding of the lives of children; the prevention of their entanglement with superficial surges of spiritual and moral decay, is a prime necessity, if we are to save our civilization. BRING CHILDREN UP IN LIGHT AND TRUTH Acting upon divine revelation from God that conveys this communication unto parents: "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth," (D&C 93:40), the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has renewed its efforts, with greater emphasis than ever before, to strengthen home ties, to build family unity, to bring the reality of God and his purposes into the home, for we know, as the whole of mankind should know, that the failure to do this can only multiply the conditions of moral decay and the lack of spiritual direction that are already upon the world. Of this the Lord in a revelation in our own time has said: You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction. And now a commandment I give unto you—if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house. (D&C 93:42-43.) To hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saint families who are obedient to this divine counsel there develops order out of chaos, righteous purpose out of lack of direction, and a great appreciation for each individual, 885 December 1968 which is pleasing unto God. A greater sense of coordinated values, which builds personal strength, inducing a power of restraint against the superficial things of life is needed. Truly the righteous, well-ordered homes, if the leaders of nations could accept it, is the panacea for their most serious problems. Here is God, if we will but accept him, communicating with his children —to all of mankind—pointing the way. EDUCATION AND THE HOME It is true that our schools play a great part in educating and molding the lives of our youth. But often, without proper home environment, schooling becomes ineffectual. For example, we have the following comments from leading educators: "While about thirty per cent of those who enter high school drop out before graduation, what of the others beyond this who remain to be assumedly exposed to our educational systems and the caliber of teachers who hold forth?" says Ernest O. Melby, Professor of Education at Michigan State University, who infers the lack of effectual school training is due to some extent to home environment: A large proportion of those who stay in school to graduate leave school with a very poor education, so poor that it unfits them for anything but a low order of skilled labor. Can the teachers be saddled with the sole responsibility... For the failure of the school system to meet the needs of a dangerously high number of pupils? Obviously not. Home _ environment, financial pressures on the family, and the sheer problem of educating such vast numbers—all have a great deal to do with the crisis. (From the October 886 1964 issue of Redbook Magazine, Copyright © 1964 by McCall Corporation. Reprinted by permission, page 61.) But the incompetence of teachers to give the help needed is also a factor, which again emphasizes the need for educational discipline in the home. James B. Conant, former President of Harvard University, makes this statement, and I quote: The United States today spends a higher percentage of its income on education per child than it has ever spent in its history—yet the net results are discouraging. He goes on to say, in summarization, that children are exposed to about forty teachers on the educational pathway from kindergarten to a high school diploma. With extreme good luck, says Conant, five out of forty or about twelve and one half per cent will be first rate. His statement is quoted further: The others, presiding over seveneighths of your child's career, will range from the adequate—that is reasonably competent, but routine and_ uninspiring—downward to those _ seriously deficient teachers who are poorly informed, indifferent about their work or temperamentally unsuited to the life of the classroom. (Ibid., page 60.) Thus we can attribute to the classroom that only which it can achieve. THE HAPPY HOME FORMULA The happy home is the heart of success of the family unit. This is achieved by the combined efforts of parents and children. Some few years ago President McKay provided a ten-point program to produce a "Happy Home." I shall refer to these; ee gence" aa Dama gt a conditions here essentially as he was inspired to give them: 1. Young people should ever keep in mind that the foundation for their own happy home begins in the behavior of pre-marital life. Loyalty to friends, to future husband or wife. To avoid indulgences that will mar the conditions of happiness. 2. Young people should choose their husband or wife by judgment and inspiration as well as by emotion. Wrong choices continue as a cause of unhappiness in the home. 3. Approach marriage with a lofty view. It is ordained of God. It is not something to be entered into lightly, terminated at pleasure, or ended at the first difficulty that may arise. The restraints of youth should ever be acting to preserve the sanctity of marriage that the home may have the proper setting. 4. The noblest purpose of marriage is procreation, the bringing of children into the atmosphere of a righteous and well-ordered home.: 5. Let the spirit of prayer and reverence pervade the home, that children and parents alike may grow with inward peace that cannot be overthrown by things that transpire outside the home. 6. Let husband and wife never speak in loud tones to each other—"unless, of course, the house is on fire'— swearing is a vice that has no place in the home or any place, for that matter. 7. Learn the value of self-control. There is an ancient teaching that you find in Proverbs. "He that conquereth himself is greater than he that taketh a city." 8. Foster home ties by continued companionship. In this sense absence does not make the heart grow fonder. It is companionship that fosters love. The vows and covenants of troth are sacred and should be kept. There is nothing in life as compelling as the companionship of husband and wife and the confidence and love of children. There is nothing in this world important enough to sacrifice these conditions. 9. Makeaccessible to children proper literature, music, and appropriate television and motion pictures. 10. Parents by example and precepts should encourage participation in Church activity, thus establishing life's two great The Need of Family Influence paramount ideals. First, to build character, and second to render service. Let children feel that if they would make a home happy—if they, in just a small degree, repay the kindness of parenthood and the sacrifices that Mother and Father have made—they will develop in themselves noble characters. (Taken from The Life and Accomplishments of David O. McKay (unpublished) by Clare Middlemiss. ) In supplementing these ten points, the home, I believe should emphasize spiritual strength. Sister Spafford has spoken so well of this today. In this respect, the characteristic of my own mother which I best recall was that of spiritual perceptiveness. This seemed to pervade her life most dominantly. It actually created an atmosphere in our home which bore unmistakable evidence, influence in my life and, I am sure, the lives of other children. She was a "peacemaker" and an example of "meekness." I am told that those of this nature will "see God" and "inherit the earth." TRIBUTE TO MOTHERS I recall an experience associated with spiritual thought, which concerned my own mother. Many years ago, while fulfilling a mission to the Eastern States, I was privileged, with other missionaries, to participate in perhaps the first pageant-type program at Hill Cumorah. This event came as the climax to our summer activities which had us traveling without purse or scrip throughout the country areas of the mission. My own assignment was in Pennsylvania. On a given day, all missionaries turned their faces toward Palmyra, New York, and with banners 887 December 1968 across our backs, upon which was a picture of the Hill Cumorah with appropriate wording, much to the curiosity and questions of many people, all missionaries managed to arrive there in time to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the revealed existence of The Book of Mormon. For three days, to listening thousands on Hill Cumorah and in the Sacred Grove, the saga of the opening of this dispensation and the coming forth of The Book of Mormon was unfolded in song and the spoken word. Today, that story is told on the slopes of Cumorah in a magnificent pageant. This was an important event in my young missionary life. And, of course, my letters home expressed my great anticipation of this event. From my mother came these words of reply and I quote: It will be an honor to stand on the sacred ground where one of the greatest events in history transpired. Surely those who are chosen to be there will be blessed. We all look forward (meaning the family) with interest to that event, for you will actually view the place where the Angel Moroni stood and delivered the plates to the Prophet Joseph Smith. No doubt holy angels will be present and you and others will feel their presence. If our vistonary eyes could only be opened we could see and feel many things. (Letter of July 30, 1923.) It is from the last statement, "If our visionary eyes were opened we could see and feel many things," that I desire to speak this day, and in doing so I pay tribute to my mother who possessed a deep sense of Spiritual perception, and to all of you mothers here today and to those who are listening in, for 888 it is from womankind and the home that most often come the teachings of spirituality. With reference to the influence of mother, both seen and unseen, I recall the following experience in my own life. In our missionary journeys, as I mentioned, we spent our summer months in the country, traveling the back roads and country lanes without purse or scrip, as they would say in that day. This meant that we would ask for our lodging each night in a home of the people with whom we were doing missionary work. A MOTHER'S MESSAGE In late August of one of my missionary summers we _ were traveling in the country hills of Pennsylvania. One Sunday evening near the little village of Dornsife, my companion and I had found lodging with a very kind lady. She was living in a fine farm house, well kept and as neat as a pin. She happened to be alone at the time, her family was away, but she had no reticence in making us her guests. - All during the evening, as we discussed the gospel with her, and the following morning before we departed, she seemed to go out of her way to make our stay ~ pleasant. For some reason which I did not understand at the time, she seemed to favor me, being especially kind and thoughtful saying at one time, "How proud your mother must be of you." That night, even though I was tired from the long walk and the missionary work of the day, I could not sleep. I thought of my own mother most of the night. I was quite troubled for some reason. Finally, just before dawn, I fell asleep. Two days later, while holding an open air meeting towards evening on the front steps of a village store not far from Dornsife, to which we had invited the farm people in the surrounding area to attend, an automobile drove up. The presiding elder of our conference stepped out of the car and came directly to me, asking that the meeting be closed. This was promptly done. He then handed me a telegram stating that my mother had suddenly passed away on Sunday, and that the family wanted me to come home. As I sat there trying to compose myself from the shock of this news, my mind went back to the previous Sunday, spent in the home of the woman who was so kind. Strange as it may seem, it was while we were there that my mother had passed away. The president of the mission, whowasthen Brigham H. Roberts, requested that I come to the mission headquarters before returning home, but all the way there I prayed that I would not have to go home. At the mission headquarters, which was then 273 Gates Avenue in Brooklyn, I slept in one of the upper rooms of the _ chapel, which was next door to the mission home. On that evening, and I was supposed to leave the next morning for home, I prayed most earnestly that I could stay and fulfill my mission. In the midst of my prayers I strongly felt the presence of Mother. I felt her hand upon my head. I did not see her, but I knew that she was there. It The Need of Family Influence was then that, also, I knew that I would not return home; for she left that message with me. Later that night, toward midnight, a telegram was brought to me in this little room, and it read: "Stay on your mission. God bless you," signed Father. AN EVER-PRESENT INFLUENCE The influence of a good mother is always present in the lives of her children, whether she is seen or unseen. The Prophet Joseph Smith's confinement in Liberty Prison gave to the saints, by inspired and revealed utterance, many noble and lofty truths, and I would like to conclude my remarks with a statement that he made while he was confined in that small fourteen by fourteen foot prison. Said he:. The things of God are of deep import; and time and experience, and careful and ponderous and_ solemn thoughts can only find them out. Thy mind, O man! If thou wilt lead a soul unto salvation, must stretch as high as the utmost heavens, and search into and contemplate the darkest abyss, and the broad expanse of eternity—thou must commune with God. How much more dignified and noble are the thoughts of God, than the vain imaginations of the human heart! None but fools will trifle with the souls of men. (Documentary History of the Church, Vol. III, page 295.) I am grateful, my brothers and sisters, and particularly you sisters who are here today, for the great and continuing work of this organization, and I extend to you the challenge of the great influence that the mothers of this Church can be in the lives of their children. And I bear record of this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 889 The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1968 Evon W. Peterson General Secretary-Treasurer General Conference, supported by her counselors and forty-four members of the General Board. O Thousands of devoted Relief Society leaders from many parts of the world assembled in the historic Tabernacle on Temple Square, in Salt Lake City, on Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, to attend the Relief Society Annual General Conference. There were representatives from stakes and missions in the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, 890 South America, Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, Germany, South Africa, and the Pacific Islands. President Hugh B. Brown, President Joseph Fielding Smith, and President Alvin R. Dyer of the First Presidency, and Elders Harold B. Lee and Marion G. Romney, Advisors of the Council of the Twelve to Relief Society, and Elder Henry D. Taylor, The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1968 Assistant to the Twelve, were in attendance at various sessions of the conference. The proceedings of the two Wednesday meetings and the Thursday afternoon meeting were televised in color over Station KBYU in Provo. Delayed television broadcasts of the afternoon sessions each day were presented in the evenings. Parts of these sessions were also broadcast in English and some in Spanish over the Church-owned radio station in New York, Station WNYW. Portions of the conference were also broadcast over KTVU serving the Oakland, San Francisco, and Nevada areas on Friday morning. Non-English speaking representatives were able to hear the proceedings of the conference through simultaneous translation in German and Spanish. All of the sessions in the Tabernacle were conducted by President Belle S. Spafford, who was supported by her Counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, and_ forty-four other board members. In the opening session on Wednesday morning, President Spafford gave a report of the activities and growth of the organization during the eight-month period, January 1 to August 31, 1967. She explained that in line with the new fiscal year for the Church, the annual reports for 1967 covered only an _ eightmonth period and, therefore, comparison of the activities with the previous year could not be made. She commended the leaders in the various stakes and missions for the devoted and efficient service they had rendered in behalf of Relief Society. Directives and guidance were also given in the Official Instructions. President Spafford announced that, due to certain circumstances, four of the General Board members had been released during the year and she introduced two new members. Heartwarming testimonies of their conversion to the Church and of the blessings they had received through the gospel and their activity in Relief Society were borne by Norma Fernandez de Milla, President of the new Montevideo Stake in Uruguay and Mary C. Dawson, President of the new Perth Stake in Australia. Eileen Witehira, President of the new Auckland South Stake in New Zealand, offered the invocation. The music for this session was provided by a chorus of Singing Mothers from the Rigby Stake conducted by Barbara Ellis, with Roy. M. Darley at the organ. President Joseph Fielding Smith stressed the need for righteous homesand theimportant role of mothers in the rearing of children and admonished them to teach the gospel in their homes so that the children would develop strong testimonies. Elder Marion G. Romney spoke concerning the words of President John Taylor at the organization of Relief Society, "He rejoiced to see this institution (Relief Society) organized according to the law of heaven." An outstanding combined chorus of Singing Mothers from the Lake Mead, Las Vegas, Las Vegas Central, Las Vegas East, Las Vegas North, and Moapa 891 December 1968 Stakes, under the direction of Ellen N. Barnes, with Roy M. Darley at the organ, provided music for the afternoon general session. This chorus also furnished the music for both sessions of the General Conference of the Church held on Friday. President Spafford and Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen gave timely and inspiring addresses. Sister Afton W. Hunt also spoke, representing the General Board. President Alvin R. Dyer, representing the First Presidency, spoke on "The Need of Family Influence." A beautifully planned reception was held on Wednesday evening in the Relief Society building. More than 3,000 Relief Society leaders from stakes and missions were greeted by the General Board. The theme of the reception—"'A World-wide Sisterhood"—was_ carried out through the use of flags representing the many nations where Relief Societies are organized. Attractive posters and displays featuring The Relief Society Magazine and the new Nursery Manual were viewed by those present. Departmental sessions were conducted on Thursday morning by General Board committees for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, homemaking leaders, visiting teacher message leaders, and also spiritual living, social relations, and cultural refinement class leaders. Specific and detailed instructions relative to the respective programs were given, aS well as inspiring messages. On Tuesday, preceding the 892 conference sessions, stake and mission presidencies and homemaking leaders viewed a display of many hundreds of beautiful articles which represented many arts and crafts that can be taught or demonstrated in homemaking meetings. In the closing session of the conference, held Thursday afternoon, a panel of four short talks on "Relief Society in My Life" were given by a grandmother, a husband, a daughter, and a son. A delightful dramatization "To Hearken and to Obey," written by Luacine C. Fox, depicting the value of Family Home Evening and recognizing father as the head of the home, as well as stressing the need of obedience to counsel and instructions from the General Authorities of the Church, was presented. Elder Harold B. Lee spoke on "The Obligation of Membership in Relief Society" as stated in the message of The First Presidency in 1942, and Henry D. Taylor's address was on "The Cardinal Principles of the Church Welfare Plan." At the conclusion of the conference, representatives of Relief Society in attendance seemed reluctant to leave. Each had been inbued with the spirit of love and of sisterhood to be found in Relief Society. Their testimonies as to the divinity of the organization had been strengthened, the importance of their callings as leaders in the great organization had been enhanced, and their desires to be better wives, better mothers, and better leaders in Relief Society were increased. The spirit of love and sisterhood permeated all of the sessions of the conference. Grandmother for Christmas Dorothy C. Robinson* O Dara Powell placed a hand into her jacket pocket. Her daughters, Debra five, and Laurie three, had just thrust hastily folded papers into the pocket. "Am I supposed to read these?" "No! — No!" the girls cried, "just put them in the mailbox. Santa will get them." "Santa! Tomorrow is Christmas Eve. Youshould have written before." "We did, but we didn't want him to forget." Dara went out and shut the door firmly behind her. Then she took the papers from her pocket. On Debra's, the word Grandmother was printed in large sprawling letters, and Laurie's crude drawing could mean nothing but a grandmother with a pie-sized cookie. They *Dorothy Clapp Robinson, beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and devoted Relief Society worker, passed away in September 1968. She contributed serials, short stories, poems, and articles to the Magazine, and was a winner in The Relief Society Short Story Contest four times. 893 December 1968 had copied from their colored picture book. A grandmother! 'As if one could be plucked from thin air— or thick, as the air was now. Dara looked to the north. No wagon coming. Neal was late. He had gone to town for a last load of supplies, hoping to outguess the weather. Perhaps the storm would hold for another hour or two, but no longer. A cloud that had hung menacingly over the south mountains all day, was now a curtain hiding the horizon and flying before a vile-tempered wind. Their second team had been lent to a neighbor for the winter, so there was nothing Dara could do to avoid a collision between the storm and the wagon, but she could do the chores. Across the fields to the east, a tall stone house stood foursquare to the weather. It had tall shuttered windows that stared like sightless eyes, but there was no smoke coming from either chimney. It simply could not be. Old Granny Collins, who lived there alone, burned coal in zero weather. There was not even that almost invisible bluish ° swirl above the chimneys that told of a banked fire below. Granny was stingy, but not that stingy. She had money in abundance, but little else. She might have gone to town to stay at the hotel for the winter. Dara shuddered with cold. She started again for the barn. If this storm proved to be as vicious as all signs indicated, they might be snowed in two, three, or more days. Maybe a week. No smoke. Come to think of it, she hadn't noticed any all day. Had she 894 seen any yesterday? She could not remember. Suppose the old woman had miscalculated, as Neal had. She might be away, but she might be there alone. Keeping fires going in_ such weather was a man's job. Dara had done all she could to create a friendship between them, but Granny's heart was locked as securely as her doors. Every would-be friendly gesture was only a hope, in her mind, of getting a hand in her purse. Dara stopped again and looked at the house. If Mrs. Collins were a different type of woman, she might have asked her to play grandmother for a few days, but probably, she would not come if Dara asked her. Last year Neal had run her ranch on a share-crop basis, and had had great hopes of doing well with it. The season had scarcely begun, however, when the old woman: began making accusations of mismanagement, dishonesty, and had even tried to have the lease cancelled. "Tt's because she doesn't trust us," Dara had said to Neal. "T doubt that," Neal had answered. "You must not pay too much attention to her words. She has had some pretty poor deals with some of her renters. She is a lonesome old woman, not quite sure of herself. What she needs is compassionate understanding." At the chicken house, three of seven eggs Dara gathered were cracked by frost. She hoped her favorite pullets would survive the storm. The acrid air of the barn was comfortably warm now, but before the storm was over, the cows, too, would have felt its strength. She milked the two cows and filled all the mangers with hay. As she opened the door to leave, a small brown hen rushed awkwardly out of the semi-darkness. Her feathers were slick with frost, her toes were swollen, and | she lifted each foot with labored care. She tried to fly to the manger railing, but could not make it. Shifting her lantern, Dara lifted the hen and set her on the railing. Immediately, she dropped inside the manger and snuggled into the hay and straw. She clucked hoarsely to tell her contentment. Stubborn old thing, Dara thought. She never would roost with the other hens. She might have been made into a stew long ago, but the girls loved her, and each summer she hatched a dozen or two baby chicks. This time, her perverseness had nearly cost her life. Leaving the barn, Dara was instantly aware of a drop in temperature. Too cold to snow, but a few hard-driven flakes struck her face. She kept her glance away from the house to the east. Old Granny Collins would have provided for an emergency. But, like a magnet, the house again drew Dara's attention. Only the outline was visible. If Mrs. Collins was to be rescued, it would have to be tonight. "Debra," she asked, "can you and Laurie stay alone for awhile?" "Course, Mama. Are you going to find Daddy?" "No, dear. Daddy will find us. I am going to see if Granny Collins is all right." Grandmother for Christmas "But she won't let you in. Remember when she made you bring the new bread back and the pie?" Laurie spoke with apprehension. "You may freeze." Debra's eyes were dark with fear. "If she isn't home, will you hunt for her in the pastures and on the lavas?" "No. I promise I will come straight back. Come, get undressed and into bed." Dara opened a bed in the kitchen as the bedroom would be too cold. After feeding the girls, she tucked them in with their books and crayons. She put one more brick in the oven to heat, and put matches and knives out of reach. She blew out the lamp and hung a lighted lantern in the east window. "That will guide you home," Debra said, "but I am afraid of the storm." "What do we do when we want protection?" "We pray to Jesus." "And perhaps Mrs. Collins is praying for someone to help her." "No. She doesn't pray.. She told me so." There it was—the type of influence she would be bringing into her house—if she brought the old lady home. But I would never be able to live with myself if I didn't check on her, Dara thought. Debra prayed first. When she had given thanks for Daddy, Mama, Laurie, and the grandmother Santa was going to bring, she prayed for everyone traveling in the dark. She raised her head, "That means you, too, Mama, and Daddy, because it will 895 December 1968 be dark before he gets home." She lowered her head again, "And please help Santa to get our grandmother here on time." Laurie's prayer was a repetition of Debra's, but she added clearly and distinctly, "Don't let anything happen to our grandmother. She can make the cookies when she gets here." Dara poured out all the anguish for her heart in supplication for help, for protection. When she arose, she told herself she would have to have help if she was to reach Granny Collins. When she was dressed to go out into the storm, Debra suddenly asked, '""Mama, will you stay there if she can't walk?" "No, no." Dara's mind had been jerked to another problem —how would she bring her back? "Don't worry, dear. I'll find a way. Promise you will stay in bed. Don't open the door. If Daddy gets here first tell him where I am." Kissing them again, she went through the door that opened into the woodshed. She closed the door firmly behind her. Feeling about, she found a lantern and lighted it. By its light, she found a long slender sled. Neal had built a threesided box on it so she could take the girls sledding without danger of losing them. It slipped easily after her. I was very easy to tell the girls not to worry, but when she was away from the shelter of the house, and the wind struck her, she hesitated. She did not want to go. What was there in it for her? Nothing but a dangerous, grueling task. 896 On the country road, the wind had a clean slap at her. Snow blinded her eyes and powdered her face. It was not more than a mile to the Collins ranch, but the storm stretched it to ten. Three times her feet slipped and she sat down hard. Suppose she broke her leg? Neal might be lost, and the girls might set the house on fire. It might be a costly trip to see if one old lady had gone to a place of safety. She sometimes stayed at the hotel in Bower for the winter. Dara reached the big house. She did not waste time at the front. At the back, she went up three steps onto what had once been a screened porch. There was no light. She pounded on the door. It was oaken and tightly locked. She thought she heard a faint cry, but one could always hear voices in a shrieking wind. A torn piece of canvas slapped viciously against the porch screen. Dara followed the wall to a low window. She tried to raise it, but it, too, was locked. Desperate with cold and haste, she turned and hit the nearest pane with her elbow. At the second try, the glass shattered. Dara reached in to release the catch, but there was none. She removed a glove and felt along the casing. As she suspected, a nail had been driven into the wood then bent. A sure way of preventing the window from being pushed up. What fear Mrs. Collins must live with! Dara had to stop and thrust her hand inside her jacket to warm it. Her fingers were numb and clumsy. Then she went back trying to twist the nail. Sud- denly it gave, and she pulled it out. The sash responded reluctantly, but it did go up. Dara crawled through, held her lantern up, then closed the window. The air in the room was stale and cold. "Mrs. Collins, where are you?". From a bedroom came a faint reply. Dara found the room and held the lantern high. The old. Lady lay in bed under a mountain of covers. One look, and Dara knew she had not come an hour too soon. The face was pinched and blue. If Mrs. Collins had demanded to know why she had broken into her house, Dara would not have been surprised, but she was surprised at the casual look of acceptance—as if she had been expected. She turned back the covers and gasped with horror. Mrs. Collins was fully dressed, with the exception of one foot. A wooly house shoe barely covered the toes. The ankle was badly swollen and an angry red. "What happened?" Dara asked, but did not wait for an answer. "I'm taking you home with me." Replacing the covers, she took two blankets and a pillow, then went into the kitchen. As she would have opened the door, she visualized the sled she had brought. Mrs. Collins, with her sore foot, could never be bent to fit into that box. The pain would be excruciating, and Mrs. Collins did not have the strength for it, but Dara could not stay with her, and every minute was increasing the danger. Dara went' outside' and looked about. Through the Grandmother for Christmas thickening storm, a darker bulk loomed. The horse! Why hadn't she thought of him before. Unless Mrs. Collins had put him elsewhere for the winter, he should be in that barn. Dara made a dash for the barn. The horse nickered a welcome to her. As fast as her numb fingers would allow, Dara harnessed and backed him between the shafts of the single buggy. Thanks to Mrs. Collins' orderly habits, it was accomplished in record time, but when Dara tried to lead him from the barn he bucked. The barn was warm and the storm frightening. "Come on, Charlie," she demanded sternly, and led him from the shelter to the kitchen door. She carried quilts and blankets, and then the old lady. She put her on the buggy seat. Luckily, Mrs. Collins was small, and just now very thin, or Dara could not have managed. She wrapped the blankets about the sick woman and tried to fasten one blanket over Granny's head so the wind could not hit her directly. "My bag. It is by my bed." "We can get it later." "T want it now!" So Dara brought it and was thankful. It was the very thing to support the bad foot. It was an old fashioned canvas affair and very heavy. The few minutes lost in time were more than compensated for by keeping Mrs. Collins' legs from hanging. The barn door was closed, the kitchen door closed and locked. "Go on, Charlie." The going was not easy. Loose 897 December 1968 snow soon clogged the wheels and the footing for the horse was bad. Dara expected at least an occasional groan from under the blankets. Only once did Mrs. Collins speak. Charlie slipped and regained his footing only when a feeble but stern voice from under the blanket commanded him to pick up his feet. And he did. Dara was happy for the interruption. She was afraid. The old lady might be unconscious. A feeling of great respect grew in Dara. It could be as Neal had said, she hadn't taken the compassion to try to understand the old woman. When out of the storm, so thick Dara could scarcely keep her eyes open, she saw a pinpoint of light. It came and went. "Tt's the lantern in my kitchen window," she cried out in defiance to the swirling snow. "It is startling." "So shines a good deed in a naughty world." Then almost immediately, " 'According to your faith so shall it be.' " No longer was there any question as to the old lady being a fit grandmother to the girls. Could she, Dara, be a fit daughter? Charlie needed no urging to stop at the kitchen door. He stood shaking while Dara carried Mrs. Collins in and laid her on a couch in the living room, instead of in a cold bedroom. The little girls were asleep, and Dara gave each a_e swift prayerful kiss as she went out into the storm to care for the horse. He wasn't accustomed to being housed with cows and bucked a 898 little, but, inside the. Barn, he welcomed the shelter. After the stable door was closed and locked, Dara stumbled back to the house through their tracks: After removing her heavy clothing and wringing her hands to bring life to them, she turned to Mrs. Collins. She did not dare expose her to much warmth at first. She warmed a glass of milk and fed it, a sip at a time, to the sick woman. Gradually,. Color flowed back into the sunken cheeks. Her eyes fluttered open, and a trembling hand reachedfor the cup. Her eyes followed Dara's movements back and forth. Her feet and hands were torturing her in the special way. Frost can, when faced with warmth. "Why don't you sleep?" Dara asked Granny. (It seemed normal now to call her Granny.) "I will take care of your ankle as best I can until Neal gets here— if he gets here." "He'll come," Granny whispered. "He won't be here until after the blizzard is over, but he will be here safe. He has faith and good judgment." And he did come, when the kitchen clock pointed to a little before ten. Was it possible so much had happened in so short a time? Granny took one look at him and was instantly asleep. "What happened?" Dara had removed Neal's gloves and was rubbing his fingers between her palms. She helped remove his boots and shoes and chafed his feet. "Chub went lame and I had to leave him and the wagon with Tom Fields. I rode Jim home and I went by way of Granny's. I thought you would have been there, but I had to be sure." The hours of the night dragged on. They took turns dozing and changing compresses on the swollen ankle. "TI. Am sure the bone isn't broken," Neal said after his fingers had probed gently, "but she will need care for a long time. Jim Carling at the hotel said she told him she was spending the winter with us, and that she was renting her place to me on a share-crop basis. I'm glad you went after her before you knew it." Granny suddenly opened her eyes. "Get me my bag," she told Neal. He opened it for her and on the top lay a packet of papers. "All ready for your signature." Neal's hands shook a little as he took the papers. "You're a remarkable woman, Granny Collins, and the Lord has blessed us both." Toward morning, Mrs. Collins relaxed into a restful sleep. The danger was over, and with good care Granny would not lose a Grandmother for Christmas "We'll build her a room in the yard,' Neal _ whispered, "That way she can be alone when she wants, but still near enough for care when she needs i" "And she will be a permanent grandmother for the girls." "She's come," Debra cried. "Laurie, we have our grandmother already." Then she looked inquiringly at her mother. "But she is Granny Collins." Dara smiled and nodded with a finger on her lips for silence. "Heavenly Father sent her, and I'm sure she will be better than any stranger Santa Claus could find." "Can she. Make_ cookies?" Laurie asked. To her, a grandmother was a grandmother regardless of the name she bore. In her ears, Dara could hear the cluck of the little brown hen. "If she can't, she can do other things." "We area family, then," Laurie grinned at her sudden perception. "There are Granny, and Daddy and Mommie and us." Outside, the storm shrieked and threatened, but inside there was peace and understanding. Foot. /— And then is gone. A brighter day. For it was here. And then returns. And love. For he was here. DAVID A sunbeam quickly flashes through the sky The world a lighter place, the day A soul makes earth a visit brief Pain a little sharper, awareness greater still, "a —Udora Morris P. 899 mE Ny 30) ae, 36, e ye a Nae aa San Fam Oe> Set ee <./ a SS ~7 ap 3 es a Sx ( be With a Heart Full of Gratitude {2 (f: Relva B. Ross - ye ) >a £2 eA das £P ~) 5 >, oo, 4 °: 5 Fa Fa A 7 nA = er O When the time comes that your fingers will not work, your vision is dim, your hearing dull, and your feet unsteady; you cannot sew, you cannot read (not very much), you cannot shop, but you are "just fine, thank, you," what do you do? You remember! You remember the gay times, the happy times, the times you realized you had made a step forward. You remember the first Christmas tree, a pungent juniper Father brought in after you and two little brothers were asleep; the flaxen-haired doll, high on the tree in the Alpine chapel, which Santa handed to you at the community Christmas party; the early walks through the crisp snow to call greetings to friends and relatives; the wonderful year when your own little son first realized what it was all about; the six o'clock pageants which truly inspired the spirit of Christmas, and the time when your tall, handome son was home on leave and no one allowed a second's thought that this would be his last Christmas. What do you remember? The wonderful books you have read, the armchair travels you have taken to the far corners of the earth; the history you have lived vicariously from the beginnings of time; the excitement of sharing romance with the heroines of fiction, and the emotion experienced in acquaintance with the poets! What do you see? Utah valley from the top of Timpanogos; the Canadian Rockies and prairie sunsets; Utah County when, after a twoyear absence, you round the Point-of-the-Mountain and know you are home again! You recall the satisfaction of adding a new ancestor to your family tree after weeks, or months, or maybe years of research. And, from all through the years, you remember with deep gratitude the kind, thoughtful friends and relatives who have smoothed the path and made the way clear when the going got rough; those who continue to be concerned for your well-being, who call, write letters, shovel snow, and even make it possible, by addressing the envelopes, to get letters mailed. So to each of you, everywhere, a heart full of gratitude and again the old familiar, but never trite, wish: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! FAITH The winter of youth is coming to me Showing the scars of adversity. Ways may be thorny, pain hard to bear, But | know in God's goodness | may share. —Catherine B. Bowles 900 ~~ {>. Lo PbS FBGA Ramona W. Cannon Genevieve Powell, although she is blind, is a successful journalist in the State of Kansas. She is helped in getting around and managing her busy life by her seeingeye dog, Ricci. Mrs. C. C. Long, Ozark, Arkansas, president of the woman's auxiliary to the American Medical Association, is calling upon all state medical auxiliaries to join in launching an action program to end television and movie violence. She hopes for cooperation from other women's groups, P. T. A., and religious units. Mrs. Walter Varney Magee, from Lakewood, Ohio, President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, is asking for concerted action throughout America against ''the proliferation of lurid sex, crime, and violence in movies, television, magazines, and paperbacks." Mrs. Charlotte Leyden, associate director of public education for the National Cancer Society, is working to make a success of films ranging from cartoons to tragic incidents, to be shown throughout the country to battle billion-dollar advertising favoring cigarettes, alcohol, and drugs. Rumer Godden, in Gone: A Thread of Stories (Viking), prefaces each story or group of stories with an autobiographical note relating the writing to some portion of her own life. ''All of them read as if plucked from the heart of life,"' says critic Katherine Gauss Jackson. Ruth Milburn (Mrs. Frank R.) Clark, who was graduated from Brigham Young University with an A. B. Degree in 1918, and who later received a Ph. D. From the University of Southern California, has been associated with the University of Denver since 1945, receiving Professor Emeritus rating in the spring of 1968. She is a recognized national authority on children's speech rehabilitation and was professor of speech pathology at Denver. She was voted the outstanding woman professor in 1959. She resides in Denver, where she continues her research and writing. Mrs. Betty Mintz is a navy astronomer for the United States. She is especially noted for her observance of Icarus, an asteroid (starlike body smaller than the planets), which wheels around the sun every 409 days. Mrs. Mintz reports that much valuable scientific data are being received through a study of Icarus, involving a general testing of the theory of relativity. Dr. Leona Holbrook, professor and chairman of the department of physical education for women at Brigham Young University, has received an Honor Fellowship Award from the American Association for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. Recently Dr. Holbrook directed a study in educational planning in health, physical education, and recreation in Chile, South America. 901 of ( t The 138th Semi-Annual Conference he Church Volume 55 December 1968 Number 12 = Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor # Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Eisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Ei zabeth B. Winters jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson irene W. Buehner lrene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia!. Taylor 902 Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B.. Waich Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Mayola R. Miltenberger Maurine M. Haycock O The 138th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the historic Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, October 4th, 5th, and 6th, 1968, in a time of radiant autumn sunlight and harvest time in the ''valley of the mountains." Thousands of saints crowded the Tabernacle and other buildings to hear the words of comfort and counsel, and other thousands throughout the world, by television, telstar, and radio, rejoiced in the testimonies and the inspired guidance of the General Authorities. The singing for the conference was inspiring. The Singing Mothers from the Las Vegas region, under the direction of Ellen Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, presented music for the Friday sessions of conference. President David O. McKay, now ninety-five years old, presided at all the sessions and attended some meetings. His opening and closing addresses were read by his son Robert R. McKay, and his address to the priesthood was read by his son David Lawrence McKay. It was with gratitude and a feeling of special blessings that the saints were privileged to see their Prophet and to hear his words testifying of the divinity of the gospel and its message to the world. President McKay stressed the great need for more religion in the home, and advised Church members to serve their fellow men, and to observe in all their actions the fruits of true religion. He expressed love for the saints and concern for their welfare and gave them the blessings of his calling. Ne rr In his opening address, President McKay declared: | am grateful most of all for the gospel, the true Philosophy of a happy life, which Sanctifies and makes operative all other blessings. | am grateful for the blessings of the Lord to his Church in all the world, and for the assurance of his divine guidance and inspiration. With deep gratitude, | acknowledge his nearness and his goodness. It is a source of real encouragement to contemplate the loyalty and energetic laden with life-giving moisture, | feel the joy and privilege of life and appreciate God's goodness. In his fervent closing address, President McKay blessed the saints in all the world: the people of Nephi, round about the temple which was in the land Bountiful... And behold, they saw a Man descending out of heaven and he came down and stood in the midst of them and he stretched forth his hand Saying: Behold | am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world. (3 Nephi 11:1-10.) O The radiance that shone roundabout Bethlehem when the Savior was born Was' prophesied and Planned to be a light unto all the world. Not only for the Magi on their far journey, and not alone for the shepherds 'abiding in the fields' —not only for those who heard the angels' Matthew, in writing of the sacred birth in Bethlehem, spoke of the being interpreted is, God with us... - And thou Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, art not the least among the princes of Juda: for out of thee shall come a Governor " (Matthew 1:23: 2:6.) The precepts of the gospel, which were carried by the Savior in his ministry, became the counsel given when he Stood in the synagogue 903 December 1968 at Nazareth ''where he had been brought up. And all wondered at the gracious words."' (Luke 4:16-24.) The gospel message illuminated the multitudes from the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon ''which came to hear him.'' The gospel of salvation restored by Jesus was taken by his own word to the towns and the cities and the wayside, the seashore, and the mountains, and in Jericho he declared: ''For the Son of man is come to seek and save that which was lost." So it was not alone for Bethlehem that the message came, but for all the world and all time. Even in a far country, in the Western Hemisphere, the Savior chose twelve disciples, blessed the people, and ministered to the children. He gave unto Nephi and other chosen ones directions for the establishment of his Church, and he told the multitude of his further mission: ''But now | go unto the Father, and also to show myself unto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the Father, for he knoweth whither he has taken him."' (3 Nephi 17:4.) The message of the everlasting gospel came as a restoration in the latter days when Joseph Smith, in the early spring of 1820, saw in a pillar of light ''... Two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description.... One of them spake... And said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear him!'' (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:16-17.) Let us remember that Christmas is more than stars and song, more than good will, more than a sacred observance of the Savior's birth in Bethlehem—it recalls the eternal and everlasting gospel for all time and for all the world—for the ages which have passed away— for the present—and for the time to come. VPC * TOLD BY A SHEPHERD BOY | followed them to Bethlehem After the wondrous word, After the choir of angels came, ai After the song was heard. Over the hill to Bethlehem, Down to a stable door, Into the yellow lantern light, Softly across the floor, Softly beside a manger bed, To find the Christ Child there— How sweet his face, how small his hands, How silky, fine, his hair. Cradled low in a little stall, In a place where the cattle dwell— My heart was filled with a warming joy, A joy no words can tell | followed them to Bethlehem, While the stars glowed tenderly— Now | keep my sheep on a lonely plain, But a king could envy me. —Sylvia Probst Young 904 Christmas Seals for 1968 'CHRISTMAS SEALS FIGHT A Partridge in a Pear Tree - Tuberculosis Emphysema ' Air Pollution National Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease Association IT'S A MATTER OF LIFE AND BREATH O The 1968 Christmas Seal has lifted its motif straight out of old English foiklore. The Seal is ''a partridge in a pear tree''—a plump brown partridge and a ripe golden pear on a field of blue and yellow. Christmas Seals have become a cherished, worid-wide holiday custom. It is only proper that this year's Seal is based on another cherished tradition. "The Twelve Days of Christmas'' is the rollicking old English folk song in which ''A partridge in a pear tree'' is one of the lines. Much of the fun of the song has always been trying to remember its long list of ''gifts'' that ''my true love sent to me," ranging all the way from two turtle doves to twelve drummers drumming. Yet, Christmas Seals also mean another gift. The breath of life. Take a deep breath. Easy, isn't it? Most of the time we are totally unaware of the breathing process. But for many, each breath is a painful struggle for life. These are the victims of emphysema, chronic bronchitis, asthma, tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases. They are not few in number. Estimates based on household interviews show over fifteen million Americans have asthma or hay fever; nearly four million have chronic bronchitis; sixteen million have chronic sinusitis, two and one half million have other chronic respiratory conditions, including emphysema; 90,000 have active tuberculosis, and an additional twenty-five million Americans have tuberculosis germs in their bodies. Christmas Seals for them mean a gift of health. Through education, research, community service, and other Christmas Seal endeavors conducted by thousands of volunteer and staff workers, the gift of health is made possible. It brings hope to those whose breath of life is waning. For others, the programs of prevention offer hope that they will not one day be numbered as victims. Won't you strike back at tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases which hit you hardest where you breathe? Use Christmas Seals on all your cards and holiday gift packages. And make one of your season's gifts a generous contribution to the Christmas Seal Campaign. It's a matter of life and breath. 905 O We were not, as my brother Fred used to say, "exactly the poorest family in the community," then he would add, "but it's for certain we aren't the richest, either.'"' We had most of the necessities, but the extras were few and spaced far between. So it was that, by average comparison, our Christmases were rather lean. I remember we used to stare wide-eyed with awe and wonder at the stacks of packages under the Christmas trees at our cousins' homes. All around the bases of their trees would be richly and fashionably wrapped presents—and it wouldn't even be Christmas for another week. At our house, Santa brought everything on Christmas Eve. There just weren't any other 906 presents. To be had, except what we gave each other. These were usually things we made ourselves and we kept them secreted away until Christmas Eve. Then we would get them out and place them in a chair near the tree so Santa could distribute them with the bounty he brought when he came. On Christmas Day we would open our presents, wild with excitement and delight. As soon as everything had been opened, inspected, and given an initial breaking-in, we were off for our cousins' houses to see how they had fared. Somehow, looking at all their treasures, made ours seem pale by comparison. We always took fruitcakes, homemade candy and cookies to them. Almost always they gave us grocery boxes of oranges, nuts, and canned goods. The Christmas I remember best was just before I turned eight. My older sister, Marcia, was ten, and she had learned to crochet during the summer. She announced with a great deal of pride that she was going to crochet Mom a pair of hot pads made like little girls' dresses. She had been saving her allowance for the thread, and she had asked her Primary teacher to help her with the pattern. I was really impressed and wished I knew how to do something really beautiful like that. All I could do was some embroidery, but I didn't really enjoy doing it. Besides, I didn't have the kind of money it would take for a scarf or a pair of pillow slips to work. Cc hristmas was drawing closer, and we were busy getting things ready. Almost every night we would shut ourselves in our bedroom and work on the gifts we were making for everyone. Marcla would be crocheting as swiftly as she could, being very careful to keep her stitches even and not to miss any. I would sit on our bed and watch her and wish I had something special for Mom, but I could think of nothing. One day I had gone through some boxes on the back porch to see if I could find some odds and ends to trim the book tote I was making for Marcia. Mom had said she would help me sew them on if I could find some scraps and cut out the designs. In one of the boxes I found an old picture frame. The glass had been broken out, but there were A Story for Christmas still the backing pieces of cardboard and a torn, yellowing piece of paper in it. I recognized it immediately, and it gave me a sharp twinge of regret when I remembered how it had come to be hidden away in the scrap box. On the paper was a poem, surrounded with drawings of flowers, birds, a small house, clouds, and grasses. It had hung in the kitchen ever since I could remember, and we children had read and re-read the poem so many times we all had it memorized. Then, one day, we had been fighting and chasing each other with the broom, and I had accidently knocked the picture to the floor. The glass broke into a hundred pieces, and some of them had torn the paper on which the poem was written. Mom had come quickly. At first she didn't say anything. She just stood for a minute with a strange look on her face. Then she quietly shooed us out of the room so we wouldn't get cut on the broken glass. It was so unusual for her not to say something that we went in a hurry but lingered at the doorway. We looked back to see her on her knees picking up the broken pieces of glass, and we could tell that she was crying. She never said anything about it. Not even when Daddy got home from work that night. He didn't seem to notice its absence from the wall, either. All during dinner we could not keep from stealing guilty glances at the spot where it had hung, all the time expecting Mother to mention it and Father to take proper dis- 907 December 1968 ciplinary measures. But nothing was said, and the frame and torn paper had just disappeared as if it had never existed. Now, as I held them in my hands with a wave of memories sweeping over me, I knew what I was going to do for my gift to Mom this year. Very carefully I wrapped the frame in the scraps I had picked out for the book tote and carried it to my room. I hid it in the bottom of my drawer, underneath my pajamas, until I could assemble _ the materials I would need. I would have to have Daddy or Wayne, my oldest brother, cut a new glass for me. In order to get the right size, I would have to measure the cardboard backing. I made a mental note to do that first thing. Then I would have to have a piece of paper to do the printing and drawings on. It had to be special paper, heavier than most, with a silky finish. It never occurred to me to doubt if I could copy the printing and the drawing accurately enough to be acceptable. I just knew that this was what I had to do for my mother for Christmas. The next time we went to town for groceries, I went away from the family and hurried to the dime store where Mom did much of her shopping. I knew they had a stationery department, and I was sure that was 'where I would find the paper I needed. The clerk was very helpful and, together, we found just the right piece of paper. But it came in a package, and if I bought the whole package, I would not have enough money 908 for the gold ink I would need. I had to have gold ink, because that is what was on the other one. It was such a good idea that only to do it half way would be worse than not to do it at all. I would just have to get more money. But how, this close to Christmas? A fat, wet tear slipped from my eye and ran down my cheek. "What's wrong?" asked the kindly clerk. "Isn't this paper what you wanted?" "Yes, yes," I replied, trying vainly to hold back the other tears that were pushing to spill out after the first, "only, only I don't have enough money to buy a whole package and gold ink, too." I sobbed. "Hmmm." The clerk tapped her chin with a forefinger. "Would it help if you bought only one sheet?" She smiled. "I could sell you one sheet for a nickel." "Oh, yes!" I breathed happily, wiping my tears on the sleeve of my coat. I handed her my money, and she took one sheet of paper from the package and put the rest of the package in a special place under the counter. She got a small jar of gold ink and rang up the sale on her cash register. Clutching the sack she had handed me, I hurried back to the grocery store just as the family was about to launch an all out search for me. 'Where have you been?" they asked. '""We were terribly worried about you." "T was just doing some shopping," I said. Since everyone was feeling the spirit of Christmas, no one said any more about it, and we went home. I went straight to the bedroom where I had been assembling all the things I would need. I had only two days left until Christmas. [ would have to hurry. I would also have to be very careful in my haste to keep from spoiling it. To make mistakes would be worse than not to do it at all, I told myself as I got out pencil, pen, and scrap paper. School was out for the Christmas holiday, so I would be able to spend most of the day working on my gift. Marcia had finished her hot pads and had them wrapped and hidden away until Christmas. She was free to play in the snow, or ice skate, or whatever her fancy dictated. And her fancy certainly did not relish watching me prepare my gift. She did not know what it was going to be, and I did not want her to know. I didn't want anyone to know. I wasn't sure they wouldn't laugh and say it was silly. Very carefully I practiced each drawing over and over until I felt I could do it well enough to set it down on the silk-surfaced sheet. I drew them lightly in pencil and then outlined them in India ink. The gold would provide accents and be the finishing touch. The next day I began the lettering. First I practiced copying each line over and over until my fingers hurt. Then I rested for awhile before I started lightly penciling the letters on the sheet with the drawings. I had had some doubt about my ability to print the letters small enough and neatly enough, A Story for Christmas but as I stared at the torn original, I realized that it, too, had been printed by hand, and I felt that if they (whoever "they" may have been) could do it, so could I. "Please don't let me spoil it now." I dipped the pen in the ink and sent up a silent prayer, "Dear, dear God, please let it be neat.... Please don't let me spoil it now." I drew the first letter with its fancy curlycues and thicker lines, and sighed audibly as it came out perfect. The other letters were plainer, but smaller, and they must be kept of uniform size. I paused to rest, dipped the pen, uttered my prayer silently in my mind, and set down the other two letters in the first word then the rest of the letters in the first line and so on. Very carefully and cautiously I drew over each letter with black ink, praying that it wouldn't smear; praying 909 December 1968 that it wouldn't drip; praying that the lines wouldn't waver; praying that it would be a worthy gift. At last it was finished. I put on the touches of gold and left it to dry for a minute while I got out the frame and the new glass and the wrapping paper. Then, I slipped the glass into the frame, set the sheet with the poem against the glass, placed the cardboard backing in place, and tapped the small nails into the holes to hold it all in place. I wrapped tissue paper around it, then placed it in an emptied Christmas card box and wrapped it. It was Christmas Eve and my fingers hurt, my shoulders ached, and my eyes burned from the strain, but my gift for Mom was ready, and my heart was light as I left the bedroom and closed the door softly behind me. T he next morning I could hardly open my presents, I was so excited and somewhat apprehensive. I kept close watch on Mom as she opened her gifts. She smiled a big smile and gave Marcia a special hug when she unwrapped the hot pads. They really were something, I thought with a twinge of uncertainty. At last she was opening the package that held my gift. My breath caught in my throat. It seemed everyone was watching, and I couldn't help wishing they wouldn't pay any attention. Mom carefully drew aside the tissue paper and looked at the framed poem, the crude drawings, the rough printing. For a_ long moment she sat staring at it, then she slowly threw back her 910 head and I sensed, more than heard, a sob catch in her throat. I was intently avoiding looking at her. My full attention was concentrated on the new pair of ice skates I had received for Christmas, yet I knew that she threw me a look out of the corner of her eye, as she rose and carried the gift, box and all, into the kitchen. | "She's_ crying,' softly, "why?" "T don't know," Fred answered easily, not bothering to take his eyes off the electric train set he was trying to assemble around the base of the Christmas tree. I assiduously avoided answering and I looked the other way as I wiped a tear from my own cheek. Suddenly, I couldn't stay there any longer. I grabbed my new skates and my coat and ran outside. Everyone would think I had gone to try the skates out. I ran through the snow with tears blinding my eyes. My precious, rotten, horrible gift had been rejected, and it served me right! I collapsed sobbing on the tree trunk where we sat to change our skates, the image of Mother throwing my gift, box and all, in the trash vivid in my mind. Daddy found me there. He had followed Mom into the kitchen, then had followed me outside. '"What's wrong, Kitten?" he asked gently as he pressed my head against his shoulder so the rough weave of his jacket could absorb my tears. "She didn't like it!" I sobbed in my misery. "Nonsense!" he replied, quickly, "Honey, she loved it. Believe me, > Marcia _ said Kitten. I don't think she has ever received a gift that pleased her more." "Then why is she crying?" "1 doubt you'd understand." He paused so long I was afraid he wasn't going to try to explain. After a long minute which I spent drying my eyes and blowing my nose, he went on, "You see, Kitten, that poem was given as a gift to your grandmother many years ago. When our first baby was born, Grandma gave it to your Mom. She said _ that Momma should always remember the message of the poem and that, if she did, it would help and inspire her as much as it had helped and inspired Grandma. Momma had me hang it in the kitchen where she would be able to see it and read its message. She loved it very much." "Then, why didn't she get it A Story for Christmas fixed when we broke it?" I asked, not yet convinced. "Well, it bothered Momma to love that particular picture so much. She hated to make a big. Fuss over it. You see, Kitten, she was the one who gave it to Grandma in the first place." He took my hand, and together we walked slowly to the house. Inside it was cosy and warm, and the Christmas turkey was beginning to spread _ its fragrance from the oven. There was Momma, her eyes shining as she stood against the sink peeling potatoes. Marcia was gathering the wrapping paper and ribbon from the living. Room floor. Fred and Wayne were arguing (quietly yet) over the electric train, and there was my gift, hanging on the wall in the exact spot it had hung for so long, ever since I could remember. THE PRESENT If | gave my love a present of a tinkling silver bell, Could it chime the hour | met him that my heart remembers well? If | gave my love a present, a chain of gilded gold, Could it bind and entwine him better than my love could hold? If | gave my love a present of a bluebird and his song, Would his call entrance and thrill him more than my voice ere long? If | give my love a present it will be of my heart, For bird can't sing, nor bell can toll, nor golden chain can bind, That which is not freely given with the heart, the soul, and mind. —Mary Hunter oan Her Best Was Enough Cora Hill Arnold O The wagon wheels needed grease; the horses needed grain; but most of all Addie and the children needed rest from the jolting of the wagon and the running to keep up as the tired team plodded on. The long ride from Alpine, Arizona, to Roosevelt, Utah, had been hard on them all. Addie's shoulders drooped and Duane reached over to pat her hand. "Just one more hill and we will be there," he said encouragingly. Addie's tired smile lighted up her whole face. She did love Duane and she was so proud of their six children—five girls and one boy— and they were beautiful. She was happiest when she had a baby in her arms. If only she wasn't so tired! But the journey was over now and they would all be busy getting their new home in order, and then, maybe, she could rest. The journey's end did bring peace and contentment to the little family, but as Christmastime approached, Addie knew there was nothing special for the children. Her heart was filled with sorrow.. On Christmas Eve, one of the older girls awoke in the room above the kitchen. She crept silently to the crack in the floor to see who was still up. There was Addie with the children's worn shoes before her. She was lovingly polishing each pair with the black from an overturned stove lid. Tears were streaming down her face. Pearl's heart nearly burst with love as she looked at her mother's face. Addie finished polishing the shoes. Then she set the table, putting on a clean cloth and, going to the makeshift cupboard, she brought to the table a sack of hard candy. Under each plate she placed two pieces. That, and the polished shoes, were the best she could do for the children's Christmas. But Pearl's eyes shone as she watched, and her mouth watered as she looked at the candy. She knew this would be a good Christmas once again, with each child feeling sheltered by a mother's love. SLL TL ASAD TAD DEAD DEA TIT Oil2 Transparency by J M. Heslop The Grandfather Clock of Tracy E. Lloyd is an heirloom for the family to treasure, reminding them of a gracious heritage. The child - David Lloyd. On y) * e 4 Al ~ Color photographs by the author one 178 FF Christmas Home for the Children 23424 Wanda Badger @ Outside, in addition to the lights on the house, we had six evergreen trees with lights. Our front door was guarded by two toy soldiers standing at attention under flocked velvet canopies of red and white. A large red bow tied toy drums and horns io an evergreen bough as a door decoration. Each time the door was opened a music box played "Jingle Bells." Just inside the door, an artificial tree was decorated with small toy soldiers, drums, and wise men, and lighted with small elfin lights and tiny sparkle lights. A manger scene was displayed next to the old family Bible which was opened and marked with a velvet ribbon to Luke's story of the birth of Jesus. Above the scene was a ribbon with the words "The Christmas Story is a true story." The fireplace was hung with ten red velveteen stockings, one for each of our nine children, and one for our dog Pierre. On the mantel was another manger scene of porcelain which lit up periodically, along with tiny lights around the wreath. The wreath was made of gilded cones, with clusters of flocked velvet fruit, and a velveteen ribbon. The candles were gold and jeweled. Next to the mantel was a white flocked tree, with multi-colored lights and 914 balls, with an angel on top. Under the tree was a miniature train and track running around a town which was made by the children. It included houses, a church, skating pond with skaters, ski hill with skiers and sleigh riders, an oldfashioned sleigh being pulled by a horse, and a forest with tiny deer peeking through the trees. On the rooftops of the houses, were Santa and his sleigh and reindeer. The round dining room table was covered with a red felt cloth with white fringe, and centered on the table was a gingerbread and candy house with an arrangement of dolls. In the windows stood a "Twelve Days of Christmas" tree of white felt with sequin-covered felt figures—pears, the partridge, and each of the characters in the song. This we designed ourselves. Entering the kitchen and family room, one passed a candy wreath, with scissors for young hands to help themselves. Above, on the mantel, was an oldfashioned clock with a Hickory Dickory Dock mouse of felt perched atop. Of course the hands of the clock were set at one o'clock. Hanging from the rafters of our family room, was a pink velveteen and crepe paper pig pinata full of candy for New Year's Eve. This also we designed ourselves. Our four youngest children were dressed in red polka-dot night shirts and gowns, with matching nightcaps and red velveteen nibbons. 915 Fancy cookies, frosted trees, a gingerbread house, brown fudge, and white divinity—a brilliant background of red poinsettia flowers. Invite your friends and all the neighboring children. Cookies, cookies everywhere! But don't touch until Christmas! Cookies and children go together like bread and peanut butter. Here is a project for the whole family to enjoy. Santa heads can be frosted with a spatula. Coconut is pressed into white icing for beard and fur. Red food coloring paints the rosy cheeks and laughing mouth. Use blue food coloring for the eyes. A decorator set, with tips, does a more artistic job of frosting the cookies. Christmas trees can be iced green with chocolate trunks and decorator balls pressed into the green frosting. Use a doughnut cutter to make angels. Cut plain round cookies and slash twice on a slight curve. This divides the cookie almost into thirds. The bottom third becomes the body. Use the "hole cutter" to make the head, which should be placed on top of the body. After baking, decorate as desired. Paint faces with food coloring. Wreaths are also made with a doughnut cutter. Stars, gingerbread men, and flowers add variety to cookie plates. Are you looking for perfect "packers" for missionaries and servicemen? Yule Cookies and Coconut-Nut Cookies (packed with miniature marshmallows to take the "bounce'") arrived in New Zealand in perfect condition two months after being mailed. This Christmas, add cookie-making to your family traditions. And, by all means, let the children help. They will enjoy it and so will you! (Continued on page 929) 917 Transparencies by J M. Heslop | ee oe of Sh a 4 Te. All g. G & riod Cal Sister Layton and her grandchildren admire the animals—and make identifications. Grandchildren: Carol Layton, center front; Raymond, Joan, James, Christine, and Sister Layton. ROT PPD AOET RAO OR Pl 4 ' j Lf cam clus Arnmimaic_A eareranlwe Tre "me "A OF L8 Va Fe y Tradition/743 (AQ, Z OAT7 0 OLS j Ls Leone G. Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society @ One of the days we looked forward to at Christmastime was the day when Mama brought out the old molds for the making of candy animals. The molds had belonged to Grandfather Robert Gardiner, who had been apprenticed to the trade of baker and confectioner in Dundee, Scotland, and had established a small candy factory in Salt Lake City, about 1868. There was real suspense in the making. Grandfather had not left the recipe for the candy, and Mama had to experiment each time. Would they be too soft? Would they come out of the molds without breaking? It was a great achievement to get the deer out with the horns intact, and the perfect one was a showpiece through the entire season. Each batch of candy was distinctive in color and flavor, the yellow ones were lemon, the pink anise, the green might be lime or peppermint. 918 ESAS SZ. Christmas Is for Friends SASA7SZ7 Tasma P. Dansie A woman who lives alone invites her friends to dinner Transparencies by J M. Heslop Wedgewood table setting, with pink candles, crystal, and silver. Clustered white figurines for centerpiece. ® Plan a casserole as the main dish when you entertain your friends during the holiday season. Begin the dinner with a fruit cup—perhaps a mixture of orange, grapefruit, and pineapple segments, interspersed with maraschino cherries for sparkling color; prepare a tossed green salad (with radishes); and, for dessert, thin slices of fruit cake, or frosted homemade eclairs. Recipes for three favorite casseroles are given here. Perhaps you will want to try them all during the holidays. Pieces of turkey could be substituted for chicken in two of the casseroles. Chicken-Broccoli Casserole 1 to 2 lbs. Broccoli (parboil) Make white sauce by mixing: Brown 4 to 6 chicken breasts in butter. 1/, square butter (2 ounces) 2 tbsp. Flour Add milk to make a thick paste or use one can of cream of chicken soup (10 ounces) in place of the milk. Pour over chicken. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake slowly about 1 hour in 300° oven, cover dish with aluminum foil. 922 or RrALO i MA SSA SE Sey SS SF, OSH; pl" Yo Sh oTIZ 3 TZ fo Christmas Comes to Australia Margaret Felt Perth, Western Australia J M. Heslop @ Australian plum pudding, typical of the great island continent, is much like plum pudding made in other lands where people of British ancestry have made their homes. Each country, however, and each individual housewife makes various alterations and additions, and adjusts her cooking methods to the utensils and equipment available. Each cook, also, takes thought and measurement of the supplies she has available—and the pudding is always delicious and pleases the families who remember and observe the customs of their forefathers. Australian Plum Pudding 2 c. Flour lemon peel to taste (or other citrus peel) 1 c. Bread crumbs cinnamon, cloves, and other spices to taste 1 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Beef dripping 1 c. Raisins 1 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Currants ~ 1 tsp. Bicarbonate of soda 114, c. Boiling water Sift flour, add bread crumbs, sugar, spices and fruits. Mix dripping, butter, soda, and boiling water in separate basin and add to first basin immediately. Boil in floured cloth 6 hours. Serve with sauce. Sauce Y, pint water 2 tsp. Lemon juice 2 tbsp. Treacle (molasses or syrup) 1 dessert spoon cornflour (cornstarch) 1 tsp. Butter Blend cornflour with a little of the water. Put the rest of the water and treacle on to boil. When boiling, stir in blended cornflour and let boil 3 minutes. Add lemon juice and butter. This pudding is eaten on Christmas day after the big dinner, consisting of roast chicken, potatoes, peas. Before it isserved, dimes and nickels, are inserted into the pudding. Of course the money has been sterilized first. Children love to see who gets the most money after everyone has eaten his portion of the pudding. 924 J M. Heslop mS? 0 OLS7 2.0 O37.0 OF QA 9 aor..0O 237.20 GG sr~0 5 ": " ~ mn DRS VES STES IES A Pioneer Christmas | Log Cabin on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah @ Log cabin homes in pioneer times, and cabins in the woods and wilderness in more modern days, have been lighted with candles and lanterns, and with flames from the fireplace. Christmas trees have been decorated with popped corn and paper chains and small calico dolls—with red berries from the mountains, and with bnghtly colored parcels, if any could be found. Sometimes, at Christmas, a real live lamb shared the cabin warmth and reminded the children of the shepherds mentioned in the Bible, and the pictures that artists have painted of small lambs which may have been brought to the manger in Bethlehem. Christmas candy was made of molasses or honey, perhaps mixed with butter and twisted into shapes of shining splendor. Pine nuts, carefully shelled, were passed — around, and sometimes black walnuts were available. There are those still living who remember the wonderful "raised" doughnuts that were unequaled among desserts, and are still considered a great delicacy. Some pioneer cooks made pies using elderberries and service berries for filling—the berries had been picked on the autumn hillsides and dried for winter use. Eventually, there were dried apples and dried peaches. Roast beef, roast pork, chicken stuffed with dressing sometimes made the Christmas merry, and some of the English saints served roast goose, and the Danish mothers made many kinds of sweet rolls, rich with dried berries or dried fruit—in the days before raisins and currants were available. Scones were common in pioneer households, and precious small amounts of sugar were saved for many months for a "sprinkling" on the scones. A log cabin was large enough for the celebration of Christmas—for in the cabin were family and food—warmth and love—and the father with opened Bible—and the mother singing carols treasured from a far-off land—and children rejoicing in their new home. 925 Gladys Hibbard Eccles @ A Christmas family tree graces the home of Gladys Hibbard Eccles of San Bernardino, California, each year. A white tree (flocked or sprayed) is decorated sparingly with colored balls, and name tags for each member of the family are made from red plastic or any desired stiff substance. A tiny figure may be added to the tags for decorative purposes. As new names are found through genealogical research, they are added to the tree, and as new babies are born into the family they become part of the tree, and as they grow older and the family tree returns each year, the children realize that they are, in truth, bright beloved branches on an everlasting family tree. Color photograph by the author A Chri ctmeac lars - = a From Laramie Ward Cheyenne Stake, Wyoming Evelyn B. Willey, President Cheyenne Stake Relief Society Aleen B. Kohler, President Laramie Ward Relief Society @A toy booth made to represent a generous clown, graced the first bazaar held in the Laramie Ward of Cheyenne Stake. The booth was designed by Jeanette F. Mikesel (pictured) and the art work was completed by Dorothy F. Cole. Many toys, easy to make but delightful to the children, were featured in the booth. The base for the booth was a banquet table padded with old sheets to protect the (Continued on page 930) 926 37 Christmas Heritage In Rialto Stake (California: Ov" e~ Elaine McKee President, Rialto Stake Relief Society ® "Froliche Weihnachten" was the theme of the Christmas bazaar held in the Rialto Stake. Pictured, left to right in front of the entrance to the bazaar are: Roxie Hubbs, chairman; Elaine McKee, President, Rialto Stake Relief Society; Odessa Clawson, President, Rialto Ward Relief Society; Theone Mosher, Homemaking Counselor, Rialto Ward Relief Society. Among the many lovely displays was a Christmas decoration table covered with a traditional red cloth highlighted by green decoration. On the table were many lovely decorative items which would enhance the home at this festive time of year. On the wall behind the table was a lovely "Egg Carton Tree," simple enough to be made by the children. It is constructed of six egg cartons cut proportionately to achieve the tree effect. These are backed on cardboard, and the end of an egg carton forms the base of the tree. The tree is sprayed gold and decorated. A tiny nativity scene is placed at the base. A six-foot Christmas tree was decorated in the traditional simplicity of the past, with small toys, artificial gingerbread men, and gingerbread houses, candy, beads, and popcorn. Santa Claus dispensed gifts from the tree for the little ones. The refreshments were on a circular table with a candy covered gingerbread house as a centerpiece. The table was covered with a full length skirt of white felt, edged with gold fringe and decorated with felt cutouts. The cutouts were very clever reproductions of Santa and his reindeer, Mr. And Mrs. Snowman, and Christmas trees, decorated with rhinestones and sequins. 927 ol ath -Onarl oN atten +O 'vo S37. "*Look Books"' for the Little Ones 723 ZR 7 Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts ® It has often been repeated that a gift of the hand is truly a gift of the heart. When listing our most treasured gifts over the years, a gift made by someone dear usually rests atop the inventory. Sister Alice M. Graves, Mesa, Arizona, makes for each one of her twenty-two grandchildren and five great-grandchildren a gift which they hold most precious. The "Look Books," as she has aptly named them, are constructed of durable posterpaper, with covers of a bright color. She puts the book together with binder rings, using reinforcements on all holes. She then paints the reinforcements on the covers to match. The books for the smaller youngsters consist entirely of pictures which come from greeting cards and discarded books. Sister Graves saves her own greeting cards, December 1968 Chocolate Oatmeal Cookies 2c. Sugar | Y, tsp. Salt Yc. Milk 3 c. Quick oatmeal ', c. Butter or substitute 1, c. Chopped nuts 3 tbsp. Cocoa 1 c. Coconut 1 tsp. Vanilla Combine sugar, milk, butter, cocoa, and vanilla in saucepan. Bring to boil slowly. Remove. Add oatmeal, coconut, and nuts. Quickly stir until thick enough to drop by teaspoon on waxed paper. Let cool to set up. A CHRISTMAS CLOWN (continued from page 926) finish. The frame was built around the table from scrap lumber with uprights and crosspieces to support the clown's face. Chicken wire was attached to the basketball standard to form the basis for the hair. Cardboard for the clown's face was obtained at a hardware store. It was made in two pieces for ease in handling. The features were painted with poster paint. The hair was made by attaching colored napkins to. The chicken wire, with crepe paper used for additional decoration. This was a popular booth at the bazaar, both with adults and especially with the children. The Honor of Being a Mother Roxana Farnsworth Hase Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was born of Mary, thus bestowing upon woman the - greatest honor that could possibly be given her. Motherhood is a sacred and beautiful thing. Let every woman who has been. Given this privilege, rejoice and be exceeding glad. Let her magnify her calling that her - children may honor and bless her because of her good example and her teachings, that her days may be noted as worthy upon the earth, and great shall be her reward in heaven. SOUTH WINDOW My south window is a happy place, 1 go there when I'm sad To gaze on varied scenes which lift My heart and make it glad. The seasons change the scenery My south window is a happy place, From daffodils to snow, | stand there every day But the feeling never changes— To let my heart laugh in the sun It's a lifting, lilting glow.. 7 And throw its cares away. —Ardith M. McBride 930 Lula Jameson Taylor, Loa Ward, Wayne Stake, Utah, Rhos remaining youthful to keeping busy. She will be eighty-six years old soon and enjoys many interesting and fulfilling hobbies and activities. She makes quilts, crochets doilies, makes pillows, rugs, and many other articles of handwork, which grace her home and the homes of many relatives and friends. She does a great deal of gardening and yard work, including mowing the lawn each week. She enjoys baking bread and cookies. She has served in the Relief Society presidency and is still an active visiting teacher. She seldom misses a meeting. She is the mother of fourteen children, grandmother of fifty-seven, and greatgrandmother to sixty-four. I Martha ere Ohuppet Head, rm © Stake, Farmington, New Mexico, "- celebrated her one hundreth. Birthday in November. She was baptized into the Church in 1884, when the entire Catawaba Indian * tribe, of which she was a member: - ~ in South Carolina, joined. Sister Head is the mother of twelve satel. ~ are twenty-eight grandchildren, ninety-nine great-grandchiidren, and three great-great-grandchildren. She has always loved working in her garden and throughout her life she has sewed for her children, and she is still an expert knitter, and loves to teach this art to her grandchildren. She is an excellent cook. Sister Head has served in many positions in Relief Society, and still enjoys attending her meetings. 931 ~~ % XS. & "Welcome 9 _ the Task 7 ™ Chapter 2 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles is disquieted by a discussion with Steve Rey, a young man whom she has been dating, who tells her he is not ready to marry. Although she is in no hurry to marry, for she is convinced that there is something else she must do first, his attitude worries her. Her parents sense that Jennifer is uncertain about several things and suggest a trip to visit Bea McPherson, a recently widowed cousin, in Houston, Texas. UJ ennifer settled herself in the luxury of the beautiful home that John McPherson had left his wife. The air conditioning felt too good for words to express. Jennifer commented on_ the beauty of the large, exquisite home. "Yes," Bea said, "it is lovely. While John was alive it was full of happiness and sunshine, but now it seems too big and too 932 lonely, although I would hate to give it up." It was obvious to Jennifer that the oil business was a prosperous one, for the furnishings of the house and the grounds left nothing to be desired, although the comforts of her family home in Springville appealed more to Jennifer's tastes. "Do Randy and his wife spend much time with you?" Jennifer asked, referring to John's older son by a previous marriage, whom Bea had reared along with a younger boy Dean, who was serving a mission in Taiwan. "Oh, yes," Bea's face lit up. She had been twenty years old when she married John, Randy had been seven and Dean scarcely four. It had been a challenge, accepting a ready-made family at that age, but with the help of the gentle widower whom she loved so much, she had been an ideal mother and both boys loved her dearly. "Randy and Paula are expecting a baby," she announced excitedly. "Why, that's wonderful!" Jennifer exclaimed. '""When?"' "In November. Can you imagine mea grandma?" Bea drawled in her soft Texan voice. It was hard, indeed, to imagine Bea as a_ grandmother. She was thirty-six years old, and looked and seemed even younger. She wore her naturally blonde hair short, and always looked as if she had just stepped from the beauty salon. Although there was now a tinge of sadness in her soft, blue eyes, they still sparkled mischievously, and a pleasant smile played at her eyes and lips. She had a delightful sense of humor, and her first thoughts were always of someone else. "T hate to give up this home, because it has always been the boys' home and they have so many pleasant memories here, as have I, of course. It is roomy for certain," she said gesturing about. "Perhaps they can both fill it with grandchildren, then it will be more tolerable." Jennifer smiled. How sad that Bea had not had her own children. "Did it ever bother you that this home was built for someone else?" Jennifer ventured to ask, with some curiosity. "Oh, no," Bea said. "I was so impressed with it after the first time I saw it, nothing else ever mattered. And if you are about to ask if I ever had problems because of John's first wife, the answer is no, even though I was Welcome the Task very young. So many women think that they have or would have a problem, because they are afraid of being compared to someone else, and they aren't certain of their husband's love. That's not the way it should be. I know John loved Emily deeply. But he also loved me, for my qualities, the person I am. I was young and made mistakes, and had some growing to do, but John was always patient and kind. He never said anything about Emily doing things differently, although we spoke of her often." Bea stopped for a moment, and Jennifer could think of no appropriate comment, so_ remained silent. "I can live with this loss," Bea continued thoughtfully, "because I know that John is happy with her there, and together they will welcome me when my time comes. Which shouldn't be for a good long time yet," she added brightly. Jennifer was moved by what she considered a beautiful testimony of real love. "I know she will love you Bea, for everything, but especially the marvelous job you have done in rearing her sons." "And I'll love her for leaving the sons I could never have, to be reared." Bea smiled. "I hope you brought your bathing suit," she said, pointing toward the pool which looked so inviting. Jennifer was somewhat awed by the many things there were to see and do in the large city. She could not imagine two million people existing much the same way a few thousand did in Springville. But, for the time being, Jennifer was enjoying the change very much. 933 December 1968 "Tell me about your young man," Bea suggested, one afternoon as they relaxed by the pool. "Well," Jennifer said, "what would you like to know?" "All you are willing to tell, his general description, and how you met, how things are looking. I'm not prying, I'm just curious." "T'd like to tell you, even if you were prying," Jennifer told her cousin fondly. "T like romance stories," Bea answered with a twinkle in her eye, looking young and eager. "Well, in that case, we had better go in and turn on the television," Jennifer told her. "You are likely to be disappointed." "T'll risk it," Bea said. Wd ennifer began her _ story reminiscently. "Well, I met Steve after I had been in England almost a year. He was my district leader, and I could tell right off that he was older than the other elders. I discovered later that he had been drafted just after his first year of college, and before a mission call could come. I had a keen sense of what is right and wrong, so I avoided the very appearance of evil, as they say. It seemed hard at times, for he was my immediate supervisor." "This sounds exciting," Bea interjected with a smile. "T was impressed with his qualities as an elder, and as a person, so I avoided him whenever possible, although I didn't really think he even knew I was alive. As luck would have it, we were both transferred into the mission home at the same time, and the night he left, we had sort of a farewell testimonial for 934 him, and afterwards he said to me very seriously, 'Sister Miles, when I get home, if I wrote to you, would you write back?' I could hardly believe my ears, but assured him I would, and I did. So for about eight months we corresponded quite regularly, and when I got home he started dating me." "This is exciting," Bea said with enthusiasm. "Well, go on. Tell me what he is like." Jennifer's thoughts flew back to the night of their discussion. She had seen him twice more after that, before she left Springville. They had both been involved with final examinations, and she had left soon afterward. On these subsequent dates, nothing more was said, although Jennifer felt that there was a definite strain on the relationship. There was nothing she could put her finger on, for she had grown accustomed to Steve's quietness, and his manners were always impeccable. Somehow, she felt dissatisfied, or perhaps disenchanted, she wasn't sure. "Well, Bea, he's quiet—and that isn't an understatement. The strong silent type, you know. He is very considerate, and has excellent manners. He is very intelligent. He is majoring in journalism, but I think he intends and hopes to be a fiction - writer, and he plans on working toward his master's degree. He is twenty-seven, hard working, yet easy going. "T am impressed," Bea commented. "And I suppose he is superbly handsome." | Jennifer smiled. One thing she could recall vividly was Steve's looks, and it set her heart to beating a little faster. "Well, he played football on the official United States Marine Corps team for a start. He's of Scandinavian descent. According to him he is five feet twelve inches tall. He has sandy blonde hair, blue-gray eyes, and a terrific smile. I have a picture of him in the house." Luater that afternoon Bea spoke with Randy on the phone. After she hung up, she asked, "Jenny, would you like a date to the Astrodome to see the Astros play the Dodgers?" "With whom?" Jennifer asked. "A friend of Randy's, his name is Dick Craddock. He and Paula and two friends and their dates are going." "It sounds exciting," Jennifer said sincerely. She liked and understood baseball, and Steve had insisted that she get to the Astrodome. She wasn't sure he would quite approve of the circumstances. On second thought, she decided, it probably wouldn't bother him in the least. Jennifer confided in Bea about her conversation with Steve, and the older woman's only advice was not to hold her breath waiting on a man who had excuses against marriage, no matter how valid they might be, unless, of course, she simply couldn't live without him. Jennifer explained -how she felt that there was something in her own life to attend to, before she was ready for marriage, although she did not know what it could be, for she had served her mission, and was well on her way through school. Bea laughed kindly. "Jenny," Welcome the Task she drawled, "you are a very level-headed young lady, and I'm meaning to pay a compliment by that." The morning of Jennifer's date to the Astrodome, Bea commented that she didn't look as though she had slept well. "Well," Jennifer confessed, "I kept having these horrible nightmares about Dick. In one he was so suave and sophisticated, and plain good-looking that I felt terribly uncomfortable and out of place. Then, in the next, he was at least a head and a half shorter than I am. Oh, Bea, don't you know anything at all about him?" "Now, Jenny," Bea said sternly, "you know Randy better than that. I've never met Dick, but Randy speaks well of him, they are associates in the oil business. Dick is well-educated, a returned missionary, and probably a very nice person. And, young lady, there is no reason why you should feel out of place with a handsome man. End of lecture." While Jennifer did trust Randy, she tarried in getting ready, and needed perhaps fifteen minutes after Paula, Randy, and Dick arrived. Bea was entertaining them all when she finally descended the stairs. At least her nightmares had been unfounded. Dick was older than she had thought he would be, around thirty-five. He was pleasant, with brown hair and brown eyes. His glasses became him. There was something about him that Jennifer could not quite describe, but later she decided that he looked as if he carried a great sadness within him, although he smiled nicely. 935 The game was exciting, finally ending in an extra-inning, onerun victory for the hometown team, much to the delight of the fifty thousand plus who cheered wildly. The immense Astrodome made quite an impression on Jennifer. Any sport could be played in any weather, plus housing cultural and _ religious events. It was truly a twentieth century edifice. The company she was with was delightful, and Jennifer could hardly keep her eyes off the third young couple in the party. Jim Long was one of those young men girls dream about, with dark skin, thick dark hair, sparkling blue eyes that laughed constantly in a teasing, flirtatious way. When he spoke, Jennifer could see why he was studying law, and, in the meantime, worked as a radio disc jockey. She thought ww that television might suit him better, for the audience rating of women would soar. Of course Jennifer had to concede that he was with an equally attractive blonde, who was obviously bored with baseball. He devoted much of his attention to Jennifer. Dick seemed not to mind in the least his flirting with Jennifer, and Jennifer could hardly resist the temptation to be flattered and impressed with Jim. When they arrived home, much later, Bea was reading in bed. As Jennifer passed by and peeked in, Bea called, "Hi, dear, did you have a nice time?" Jennifer dropped herself despondently on the edge of the bed. "Oh, Bea, I just did the worst thing a girl can do. If I had any brains, I'd be dangerous." (To be continued) THE STAR WE SHARE Each of us had our Bethlehem, A mother's arms, a starfilled night, An angels' choir singing there... Beyond remembrance, beyond sight. When we left our heavenly home, We knew, as he, the path would be Beset by the treachery and tears Which followed him to Calvary. 936 He could mend a broken soul As we would kiss away a tear. We cannot do the miracles He could do when he was here. Sell When Christmas is upon the land, Faith's message is ringing clear. The Heavenly Father, who sent his Son, Is the same who sent us here. —Dorothy O. Rea Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 94—Salvation for the Dead Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C Sections 127-128.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969 OBJECTIVE: the baptism of her progenitors. INTRODUCTION In September 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith, at Nauvoo, Illinois, addressed two epistles to the saints concerning record keeping and the subject of baptism for the dead. (D&C 127-128.) The Lord had already revealed some matters regarding baptism for the dead. ([bid., 124.) The first time this doctrine was mentioned in public was at the funeral of Seymour Brunson, who died in August 1840. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts (2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1949), Vol. IV, p. 231 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) When Elder Wilford Woodruff returned from England in 1841, Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 The Latter-day Saint woman meets her responsibility of making possible at which time he heard that this doctrine had been revealed, he said he was overjoyed in the thought that he could have this ordinance of salvation performed for his mother who was dead. Converts to the gospel have had similar feelings when they learned that they may help in the salvation of their deceased loved ones. A GLORIOUS DOCTRINE In one of the Prophet's epistles he quoted Paul's letter to the Corinthians wherein he refers to baptism for the dead in relation to the resurrection. (I Cor. 15:29; D&C 128:17.) In the Prophet's explanation of this doctrine, he said:. And in an especial manner this most glorious of all subjects belonging to the everlasting gospel... (D&C 128:17.) 937 December 1968 Every Latter-day Saint who has seriously considered the importance of the doctrine of salvation of the dead has had the assurance that this teaching is in accord with the justice and mercy of God. He understands that the plan of salvation would be woefully incomplete unless there were some provision whereby those who did not have an opportunity to accept the gospel in this life might receive it in the next world. In addition, he realizes that this glorious doctrine gives him a greater appreciation for and interest in his progenitors who made it possible for him to have this earth hfe. His comprehension of the total plan of life is enlarged in the contemplation that he agreed to this plan in the premortal world where salvation of the dead was a part of that plan. (/bid., 128:5.) He thrills that he has the opportunity to bring joy into the lives of his departed, as expressed in the words of Joseph Smith: Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free.... And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory, and salvation, and honor, and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers! (Ibid., verses 22-23.) Class Discussion Why do you think that the doctrine of salvation of the dead is a glorious subject? A MODERN REVELATION On October 3, 1918, President Joseph F. Smith was contemplat- 938 ing two New Testamentscriptures from the apostle Peter. Both of these scriptures referred to the time when the Savior—between the time of his death and his resurrection—went to preach to the spirits of the dead and thus the dead would be judged as "men in. The flesh" (I Peter 4:6) who had heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Ibid., 3:18-20.) He later reported to the Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Patriarch, the 'vision of the Savior's ministry among the dead, and they unanimously accepted it. A brief summary of that vision follows: President Smith saw the right- ~ eous dead in the spirit world filled with gladness awaiting the advent of the Son of God among them. There was no darkness among the righteous, but peace and rejoicing. He saw that the Savior went to the righteous and commissioned them to take the gospel message to the wicked who were assembled in another part of the spirit world. Thus was the gospel preached to those who had died in their sins, without a knowledge of the truth, or in transgression, having rejected the prophets. These were taught faith in God, repentance from sin, vicarious baptism for the remission of sins, the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, and all other principles of the gospel that were necessary for them to know in order to qualify themselves that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. (Gospel Doctrine, Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith, ninth ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1952, p. 474.): Class Discussion What does the foregoing summary of the "Vision of the Redemption of the Dead" (Lbid., 472) contribute to your understanding of the Savior's visit with the dead? MAN'S SPIRIT The Lord has revealed that man is spirit, and he is eternal. (D&C 93:33.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said: In tracing the thing to the foundation, and looking at it philosophically, we shall find a very material difference between the body and the spirit; the body is supposed to be organized matter, and the spirit, by many is thought to be immaterial, without substance. With this latter statement we should beg leave to -differ, and state that spirit is a substance; that it is material, but that it is more pure, elastic and refined matter than the body; that it existed before the body, can exist in the body; and will exist separate from the body, when the body will be mouldering in the dust; and will in the resurrection, be again united with it. (DHC 4:575.) A PLACE OF EDUCATION One of the purposes of the spirit world is to provide an opportunity for those who have not heard the everlasting gospel to learn it. It is a place of repentance for them. Members of the Church also will have opportunity to further perfect their lives. It is erroneous to assume that the person at death is any different in the spirit world than he was in earth life as far as his beliefs, attitudes, and _ characteristics are concerned. (Alma _ 34:34.) Deathbed repentance does not assure salvation after a life of negligence or wickedness. The penitent thief on the cross by the Savior did not go to heaven but to the spirit world for further education. (Luke 23:29-43; John 20:11-18; Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Lesson Department Smith, p. 309.) The transition of death does not change one's character. President Brigham Young said that changes must come in the same way that changes come in this life, by desire and effort. (Roy W. Doxey, The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future, pp. 83-84.) The faithful, devoted Latterday Saint, having accepted the atonement ofJesusChrist through the first principles and_ ordinances of the gospel, will not be under the influence of Satan after death. Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 3:94-95.) On the other hand, the wicked, unrepentant will more or less be subject to the Adversary's power. (Ibid., 7:240.) RIGHTEOUS AND WICKED In the world of spirits there are two divisions—paradise and hell. From the day of Adam down to the time Christ ministered to the spirits in prison, there was a great gulf between these two places. (Luke 16:19-31; Nephi 9:12-13; Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 14:229; Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised, 1957, p. 463.) Christ bridged the gulf. Since then the gospel has been taught in both paradise and hell, and there has been consequent intermingling of the righteous and wicked spirits. Thus the Prophet Joseph Smith, speaking of conditions as they now exist in the spirit world, said: "Hades, Sheol, paradise, spirits in prison, are all one: it is a world of spirits. The righteous and the wicked all go to the same world of spirits until 989 December 1968 the resurrection." (Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 310.) In explaining the words of Alma, who was speaking upon the subject of the spirit world in the day of a sharp cleavage between hell and paradise, President Joseph F. Smith said: The spirits of all men, as soon as they depart from this mortal body, whether they are good or evil, we are told in the Book of Mormon, are taken home to that God who gave them life, where there is a separation, a partial judgment, and the spirits of those who are righteous are received into a state of happiness which is called paradise, a state of rest, a state of peace, where they expand in wisdom, where they have respite from all their troubles, and where care and sorrow do not annoy. The wicked, on the contrary, have no part nor portion in the Spirit of the Lord, and they are cast into outer darkness, being led captive, because of their own iniquity, by the evil one. And in this space between death and the resurrection of the body, the two classes of souls remain, in happiness or in misery, until the time which is appointed of God that the dead shall come forth and be reunited both spirit and body, and be brought to stand before God, and be judged according to their works.... (Gospel Doctrine, Selections from sermons and writings of Joseph F. Smith, ninth ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1952, p. 448.) MISSIONARY WORK Probably one of the most important activities in the spirit world is missionary work. In the "Vision of the Redemption of the Dead" received by President Joseph F. Smith, the following is given: I beheld that the faithful elders of this dispensation, when they depart from mortal life, continue their labors in the preaching of the gospel of repentance and redemption, through the sacrifice of the Only Begotten Son of God, among those 940 who are in darkness and under the bondage of sin in the great world of the spirits of the dead. The dead who repent will be redeemed, through obedience to the ordinances of the house of God, and after they have paid the penalty of their transgressions, and are washed clean, shall receive a reward according to their works, for they are heirs of salvation. (Gospel Doctrine, p. 476.) BASIS OF SALVATION FOR THE DEAD On January 21, 1836, in the Kirtland Temple, the Prophet Joseph received a vision in which he was permitted to see the celestial kingdom. Among those he saw were some people he knew on the earth, one of whom was his brother Alvin, who had passed away before the gospel was restored. The voice of the Lord came to him saying: All who have died without a knowledge of this Gospel, who would have received it if they had been permitted to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God; also all that shall die henceforth without a knowledge of it, who would have received it with all their hearts, shall be heirs of that kingdom, for I, the Lord, will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts. (DHC 2:380.) BAPTISM FOR THE DEAD In the merciful plan of the Great Creator, provision was made for the salvation of those who would die without a knowledge of the gospel. The same principles and ordinances that save the living also save the dead. (I Cor. 15:29; Joseph Smith, DHC 5:424.) Since the plan provides that mortals must perform the ordinances on the earth in temples, baptism for the dead is performed by proxy, the living representing the dead. Proxies also stand for the dead in receiving the | higher ordinances of the gospel in the temple. The first baptisms for the dead in this dispensation were performed in the Mississippi River because there was not a temple where the ordinance could be performed. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, thirteenth ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1953, p. 305.) Subsequently, these baptisms were discontinued by revelation until the baptismal font in the Nauvoo Temple was completed. (D&C 124:31-35; Joseph Smith, DHC 4:426.) the baptismal font was instituted as a similitude of the grave, and was commanded to be in a place underneath where the living are wont to assemble (D&C 128:13.) RECORDS OF THE DEAD The Prophet Joseph Smith, by revelation, counseled the saints that their records should be maintained in order, and that proper recordings should be made of baptisms for the dead. (D&C 127: 5-9; 128:2-4; Joseph Smith, DHC 9:141.) What is recorded on the earth shall be recorded in the heavens, wrote the Prophet Joseph Smith. (D&C 128:8.) Inasmuch as we shall be judged out of the books which are maintained on theearth it is essential that the Church members maintain a proper record of their dead. By this means records are also kept in the heavens by the binding authority of the priesthood. (D&C 128:14; Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses 7:84.) Class Discussion How does the preparation of pedigree Lesson Department and family group sheets assist us to comply with the Lord's commandment regarding our kindred dead? OUR SALVATION The prophet Malachi prophesied, and the angel Moroni instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith, regarding the coming of Elijah to the earth before the second coming of Christ. (Malachi 4:5-6; D&C 128:17; 2.) On April 3, 1836, Elijah committed the sealing powers of the priesthood to the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery. This power also included the work for the dead. (D&C 110:13- 16; Joseph Smith, DHC; 2d ed., 1950, Deseret News, 6:183-184.) The Prophet taught that the saints could become saviors on Mount Zion by performing temple ordinances in behalf of their dead. (DHC 6:184; Obadiah 21.) In this same sermon, he said: The Saints have not too much time to save and redeem their dead, and gather together their living relatives, that they may be saved also, before the earth will be smitten, and the consumption decreed falls upon the world. (DHC 6: 184.) The importance of the work of redeeming the dead by identifying them and having the necessary ordinances performed for them is indicated by the following statements from the Prophet: For we without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect. Neither can they nor we be made perfect without those who have died in the gospel also; for it is necessary in the ushering in of the dispensation of the fulness of times, which dispensation is now beginning to usher in, that a whole and complete and perfect union, and welding together of dispensations, and keys, and powers, and glories should take place, and be revealed from 941 December 1968 the days of Adam even to the present time. (D&C 128:18.) This doctrine presents in a clear light the wisdom and mercy of God in preparing an ordinance for the salvation of the dead, being baptized by proxy, their names recorded in heaven and they judged according to the deeds done in the body. This doctrine was the burden of the scriptures. Those Saints who neglect it in behalf of their deceased relatives, do it at the peril of their own salvation. (DHC 4:426.) Class Discussion How important is work for the dead? IMPLEMENTATION An integral part of the doctrine of salvation of the dead is the subject of the spirit world. Every person at death goes into that sphere of existence where the principles of salvation are taught. Faithful members of Christ's Church will continue their labors in that world in behalf of the dead, preparing them for their final stage of existence, the resurrection. The Lord has instituted the practice of baptism for the dead and the performance of the higher ordinances in temples that exaltation may come to the dead. This opportunity to perform genealogical research and temple service for one's kindred dead, if accepted, will help the Latter-day Saint to uproot selfishness, greed, and other barriers to his own salvation, as he helps those who cannot help themselves in the _ spirit world. The initial step in this program is to enroll in a ward genealogical class to learn the rudiments of genealogical research. With this training, one can complete his four generation family group sheet project, as requested by the Church. Becoming involved in this activity should increase one's desire to continue to become a savior on Mount Zion in fulfilling his obligation to his kindred dead. The magnanimity of the gospel plan is indicated in this important doctrine revealing God's mercy and justice. Before the final judgment is rendered, every person must receive his chance to have the blessing of accepting the gospel. What the living do or do not do in behalf of their kindred dead will redound to their own everlasting exaltation or condemnation. FIRST HURT There was a look in her eyes of surprise and an incredulity that this could be, She, who was loved so, how could she know that we would have spared her this with touch, with kiss, But we could not; we stood, hurt as she, sorrowing at this swift pain she would know again. 942 —Christie Lund Coles VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 6—''Draw Near Unto Me and | Will Draw Near Unto You..."' (D&C 88:63.) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 OBJECTIVE: To realize that our lives are more meaningful if we are close to our Heavenly Father. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (D&C 88:63.) In all sacred literature there is no invitation more inviting, gracious, nor full of promise. "Draw near unto me." This warm, affirming solicitation is like a beckoning hearth fire on a stormy night. Amid confusion, grief, and evil, comes this reassuring summons of our Lord. God, the power, authority, and omniscience of our universe, asks us to join him in a great companionship. Like all. Friendships, it must be on a reciprocal basis. Friendship, if it is to remain alive and growing in worth for both participants, takes time and effort. If one seldom sees or communicates with a friend, interests may grow apart, and the friendship may tend to lose its meaning. To answer the call of our Lord, to enter this intimate relationship with him, we must spend time with him, not merely a few hurried minutes a day, and we must diligently seek him. "Draw near" connotes. Desire to be close. "And Adam and Eve, his wife, called upon the name of the Lord." (Moses 5:4) and he answered them. "Seek me diligently" implies effort and persistence. Solomon offered "a thousand burnt offerings." (I Kings 3:4.) "... The Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night: and God said, Ask what I shall give thee." (I Kings 3:5.) "Ask, and ye shall receive..." (D&C 4:7); with unwavering faith Joseph Smith asked, and God and Jesus Christ visited him. "Knock, and _ it shall be opened unto you" (/bid.); thousands knock and God opens to them the riches of eternal life. The scriptures and the lives of many men and women testify to the fulfillment of God's promises. To these people has come the greatest experience of all, the understanding and_ assurance that God lives and that the universe has been created for righteous purposes. This knowl- 943 December 1968 edge is more desirable than the combined material riches of the world. "Blessed are they which do hunger and _ thirst. After righteousness: for they shall be filled." (Matthew 5:6.) Those who draw near to God have the sustaining strength to face the problems and evils of this world with a clear perception as to the meaning of their lives and of the way to inherit eternal life. They have the warm reassurance that God draws near to them. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 6—Take Pride in What You Have Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show the importance of taking pride in our possessions—particularly those pertaining to the home—and the value of using them to the best advantage. INTRODUCTION Pride, like many other human characteristics, has two faces. The one looks with appreciation upon that which is rightfully his and brings in return the blessings of contentment and peace. The other looks with envy toward the acquisitions of others, seeking only the self-gratification of possession for its own sake, and reaps dissatisfaction and discontent. Too often our young people grow up with the idea that the world is theirs for the taking— that hard work and the putting forth of energy and effort in obtaining the things they desire belong to a different age, and one which touches them not even remotely. As a consequence, 944 they approach marriage wanting and expecting all of the comforts and conveniences of living which their parents have spent a lifetime in accumulating. Our responsibility to our children, as well as to ourselves, is to show how, by taking pride in justly acquiring and taking care of our possessions and by making the most of what we have, we can find deserved and _ lasting contentment. These results do not come from looking with envy toward the possessions of others. Basic within each one of us is the need to have pride in the things which belong to us. It follows that we should be concerned with taking care of what we have so that others may recognize these virtues and learn how to utilize them in their own lives. HOW CAN WE USE WISDOM IN ACQUIRING OUR HOME FURNISHINGS? We should evaluate. Our particular needs and set realistic goals for attaining them. (Keeping within our budget.) We should plan well in advance the purchases we will make, their approximate cost, and their order of importance to the overall plan. We should buy only those things which will contribute to the comfort and beauty of our home. We should avoid impulse buying or the purchase of so-called bargains which we have not planned for. We should be willing to postpone the buying of things we would like but cannot afford. We should, whenever possible, choose furniture that will serve our present needs and still serve to good purpose as our home expands. We should invest what money we spend in things of lasting and superior quality, except where budget-stretching substitutes are immediate and temporary necessities. (Even these, wisely chosen, can add to the attractiveness and personality of the home.) HOW CAN WE UTILIZE WHAT WE HAVE TO THE BEST ADVANTAGE? Many things have been discarded. Which could, with the application of a little work and imagination, have been made into valuable and attractive additions to our homes. Chairs and sofas can be rejuvenated with attractive siip covers. Dressing tables and stools can be "glamorized'"' and_ individualized by draping or skirting with harmonizing fabrics. A colorful spread and smart pillows can give an outmoded bed an attractive modern appearance. Painting, antiquing, enameling, lacquering, and other methods of refinishing can restore life and beauty to chests, tables, chairs, and other furnishings. Lesson Department The application of fabrics, leathers, and decals to pieces of furniture can rejuvenate them into gay and exciting pieces. Goldleafing is a popular new innovation which can be used for reconditioning furniture and accessories. A HOME WORTHY OF OUR PLANNING IS WORTHY OF GOOD CARE It is just as important that we take care of our cherished possessions as it is that we acquire them in the first place. We should know that good care is as important to the beauty and complexion of our homes as good grooming is to our _ physical bodies—and that it is equally as uplifting to our morale. Furniture and accessories should be kept free from dust and finger marks as well as treated with respect in moving and handling. Carpeting' and rugs' should be vacuumed regularly and_ spot-cleaned whenever necessary. Valuable art objects or treasured heirlooms—petit-point pieces, delicate ceramics, valuable books, and _ other prized possessions—should be _ placed where they are protected from rough handling or careless treatment. Glassware, china, linens, and silver should be kept clean and sparkling and free from tarnish and stain. Children should be taught to take good care of their own possessions and to keep them in their proper places. CONCLUSION People in countries throughout the world have for centuries been cherishing and preserving treasured heirlooms and works of art. They have taken pride in developing and encouraging the arts and handicrafts of their respective countries. We, with 945 December 1968 - them, have learned that to take pride in the things we cherish is to take care of them. There can be little satisfaction in having beautiful things if they do not add beauty to our homes and enjoyment and pleasure to our lives. If we would teach our children to value and appreciate their possessions and take pride in creating and maintaining beauty in their lives, we must exemplify these qualities in our own. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 6—That We May Be One Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the value of unity in the home and in various Church activities involving the Latter-day Saint woman. Lesson Follow-up Have a sister report (3-4 minutes) on a scripture, which, in her opinion, is a guide line for a general problem facing the Latter-day Saint woman today. INTRODUCTION This lesson, which is in correlation with Lesson 28, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, titled "Warning to the Priesthood to Follow Counsel," is based on an address by President J. Reuben Clark Jr., delivered at the General: Priesthood Meeting of the Church, April 8, 1950. Excerpts from this address and from a conference address of 1943, which also considers the subject of unity, will be used in this social relations lesson. President Clark's message 946 may have important application to a Latter-day Saint woman's home life, her Church service, and, also, to neighborhood and community affiliations. President Clark frequently spoke of the importance of unity. In both public address and in his written works, he stressed the need for unity; unity in belief, unity in spirit, and in action. It was a subject near to his heart. Referring to New Testament teachings on this subject, President Clark cites the following scripture wherein Jesus declares his oneness with the Father. From the prayer of Jesus prior to his going to Gethsemane, we read: Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us. That they may be one, even as we are one. (John 17:20-22; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 10.) UNITY IN HOME AND NEIGHBORHOOD Questions for Discussion 1. Of what value to the Latter-day Saint mother with young children is unity within the neighborhood? 2. In what way is unity of special importance to adult Latter-day Saint women, where there are no children involved? THE HOME THAT UNITY BUILT This is the home that unity built. It was an ordinary house in appearance—with walls and windows and roof—but with a very firm foundation. Inside were the usual fixtures. The parents were well intentioned and intelligent. And there were children, just ordinary, intelligent children. But there was something special, very special, about this house. I think it began when the couple, sitting down together, talked things over. They said, "From this moment forward, this will be a home, not a house, for we will make it a place of happy agreement. We will make it a place of peace, where human relationships are warm and congenial. We will invite love to be ever present, most of all in discipline. Our children will know that they are wanted and loved. We will endeavor to make sharing and respect for the rights of others a part of our thinking and of our daily action. We will play and we will pray together. There will be problems, disappointments, and_ sorrows, Lesson Department this we know, but our faith will support us." And these things happened, just as they had planned in the house that unity built. Listen to their children: Little One of Five Years: "T like our family home evenings because all the people in our whole family are together." The Almost Ten One: "IT don't go fishing on Sunday, like some boys I know, but, on other days in summer, my dad takes me and my brothers on fishing trips." The Fourteen, Wishing-He-Were-Sixteen: "No, I can't drive the car, not yet. But the family works things out pretty well car-wise."' HOUSE OF DISCORD This is the house that discord built. It was a nice house, with all that a nice house needs—walls, windows, foundation, and roof. There were children, intelligent, innocent children. And there were well-intentioned parents who hoped to establish a successful home. They really hoped that they would, but that is where they left the matter. They did not decide together what they wanted of life as a family. They did not say, "The foundation of this house will be strong and everlasting, for we will fortify it with love and with religion." They did not say, "As the children increase in number, we will work and play and go to church together, that there may be unity and peace in this house." They said none of these things. Moreover, because they did not look ahead and plan, they brought into this house some unneeded even undesirable, things. Some 947 December 1968 were so illusive you could scarcely identify them. Then something happened, though it was not a sudden happening. It began when the mother started to listen. She had not done much listening, being so involved in her multiple interests. And listening, she heard the LittleOne-of-FiveYears say to a neighbor child, "Yes, we do have one sometimes, but it's a half-family night at our house, Sally and Bob don't want to be there." And once she heard the Almost-Ten say, "One of my parents says Yes, fishing is all right for Sundays, but the other one says No, church is." And when she listened again, she heard Fourteen, Wishing-HeWere-Sixteen say, with emphasis, "No one in our house pays any attention to anyone else. Nobody seems to care and nobody listens, so what's the use of telling what your troubles and your plans are? I'm fourteen and in the groove, but you just wait until I'm sixteen and I'll make my voice heard." Then the mother said, in anguish, "Something is_ wrong. Something must be done. This is not a home; it is a house, and it's a house of confusion. It's a house with no compass, with people going every which way. There is no unity, no oneness here." And as she took inventory of her house, she was amazed how few undesirables there were, but also amazed to see how vital and how destructive their influences could be. Now the father had also made some observations, for he had heard the voices of children, above the din of quarrel. So the father 948 and the mother began to list the undesirables which their roof was sheltering: "Criticism of others must go first," the father said. The mother added quickly, "Yes, faultfinding must go, also, so that there will be more room for love." And the father said, 'Love, we will make the rule of consistent discipline." "And we will listen," the mother said, "that we may know what our children think and hope for, and are capable of achieving, and we will counsel thoughtfully." "Tt will not be easy," the father said, "but we will start now, today." "I know," the mother agreed, "it would have been far easier had we been one in mind, one in spirit, and one in righteousness, right from the beginning." And it would have been. Question for Discussion What do these fables mean to you? President David O. McKay said: Unity and its synonyms—harmony, goodwill, peace, concord, mutual understanding—express a condition for which the human heart constantly yearns. Its opposites are discord, contention, strife, confusion. I can imagine few, if any, things more objectionable in the home than the absence of unity and harmony. (President David O. McKay, "Unity of Purpose Important to the Accomplishment of God's Work," The 137th SemiAnnual General Conference, The Improvement Era, December 1967, p. 34.) UNITY IN THE CHURCH Speaking, generally, of unity within the Church, President Clark said: Brethren, if this Church is to grow as the Lord wants it to grow, if the: people are to become as righteous in their living as the Lord wants them to become, there must be unity in this Church. It will not do for presidents of stakes or for bishops or for heads of auxiliary organizations to chart their own course. If we are to move forward we must move together. I loathe war so much that I hate to use any illustration in connection with it; but I do call your attention to this fact, of which we are all sensible in these times, that there could be no successful campaign by a series of armies if they did not act in unity. If every general "went off on his own," there never would be a successful operation. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., address at General Conference, April 8, 1950 (Manuscript); Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 28.) IN HARMONY WITH PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH On the importance of Church members being one with the President of the Church, President Clark states: If we are going to bring about and accomplish the great purposes which the Lord has marked out for us and of which we have heard so much, so eloquently, so beautifully, and so truthfully in this Conference, we must be one. As I have said to the Pnesthood of this Church over and over again in the past: If we are one, really one, bringing together all of our wills and our forces of character, and our powers, and our abilities into harmony with the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator of God on earth at this time, there is nothing which is beyond our power in righteousness. And I can think of nothing that today is more important than that we as individuals shall seek, each and everyone of us, to be one with him who is the Lord's anointed, called and ordained to head His Church. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Conference Address, October 3, 1943, 114th Semi-Annual Conference Report, pp. 125-126; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 29.) With the foregoing in mind, I recall to your minds that the Lord has said: "Except ye are one, ye are not mine." We cannot be one unless we are one in spirit, in belief, in knowledge, and in action. There is no other way." (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Conference Address, April 7, 1944; 114th Annual Conference Lesson Department Report, pp. 110-116; "The Way of Unity," The Improvement Era, Vol. 47, May 1944, pp. 270-271; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 29.) Class Involvement Questions 1. Do you think faultfinders and commandment breakers are more harmful to Church progress than persecution from without? If so, why? 2. How harmful might be one single Latter-day Saint woman's faultfinding and criticism to the unity of the Church in her area? Discuss briefly. UNITY IN THE AUXILIARIES That unity is of real importance to the forwarding of Church auxiliary purposes, may be attested by every administrative officer of these organizations. Class Involvement Discuss how Relief Society may benefit relative to unity: 1. When members cooperate by trying to understand the program. 2. When they are willing to take direction and counsel. 3. When they are consistent in their performance. 4. When they are friendly with one another, especially to the newcomer or nonmember visitor. 5. When they refrain from criticism of each other and of the local leadership. 6. When they conform to the general standards of the organization at all times. NOT FOR TODAY ONLY Unity within the Church is not a need of today only, but has been important to the spiritual wellbeing of the Church whenever it has been upon the earth. In the early days of the Christian Church, the apostle Paul was much concerned about dissension in the various branches and the need to strengthen them through unity of the membership. 949 December 1968 To the Roman saints Paul wrote: Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and the things wherewith one may edify another. (Romans 14:19.) Be of the same mind one toward another.... (Romans 12:16.) To the Philippians he wrote: Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. (Philippians 1:27.) Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. (Philippians 2:2.) SUMMARY The unifying influence of being one in spirit, and mind, and action with others of like belief, can scarcely be overstated. It ls especially important to the general welfare of the Church today and to all areas of Church organization. This has always been so. Unity involves human relationships, one to another, and, as such, it is an indispensable factor in maintaining harmony within the home, in creating a congenial neighborhood, and in promoting community progress. Unity need not lessen the exercise of one's inherent free agency —for in righteous unity one retains the priceless gift of individuality. President Clark implies this fact in the following phrases —"one in purpose, one in will, one in faith, one in obedience, one in service, one in righteousness, but different personalities." (MelchizedekPriesthoodManual, 1968-69, Lesson 10.) How evident is the lack of unity in all nations of today's world. For Home-Doing Ask yourself: In what ways can I, as a Latter-day Saint woman, increase unity, harmony, and good will in our home, and in my neighborhood, and in the Church? Begin now. 950 THE ARTIST'S TOUCH So pure was the world when | was a child— Transparent and clear as a winter's night. When hearthfire gleamed with warmth and love, For those were the years when the world was white. How wondrous the world when childhood was gone, And youth blossomed full as a summer's dream. When days were Junetime.... With emerald-glow, For those were the years when the world was green. How restful the world now that youth has passed, And peace lies bounteous in the harvest fold. When days stretch mellow as in autumn's dusk, For these are the years when the world is gold. —Alda Larson Brown CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—The Appreciation of Beauty Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Five By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "| pray Thee, oh God, that | may be beautiful within." —Socrates Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that beauty enriches living and that a life in harmony with truth and virtue is the most convincing manifestation of womanly beauty. MUSIC Beethoven Symphony #7 in A Major, Opus 92 First movement, Péco Sostenuto—Vivace Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University The topic chosen for Lesson 5 The Appreciation of Beauty gives wide scope for selecting a piece of music to be included in this presentation. Edna St. Vincent Millay's sonnet, '(On Hearing a Symphony of Beethoven"' in the text, however, would naturally lead us to choose a movement from one of the nine symphonies of that great composer. The first movement of the Seventh Symphony is selected because of its combination of profundity and cheerfulness, of nobility and lyricism. It is familiar, yet not as well known as some other symphonies. ART: ''Stowstorm"' by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British Painting reproduced in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1968, page 685. Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, page 690. INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON Like most of the other concepts that we are exploring in this series of lessons, beauty (and its opposite, ugliness) is manifest abundantly both in the natural universe and in our human lives, to say nothing of the whole world of art (literature, music, painting, sculpturing, etc.), which is dedicated to the creation and sharing of beauty. In order to touch upon these several aspects of beauty, we are dividing this lesson into three subsections: first, beauty in man and woman; second, beauty in nature; and_ third, beauty in art. 951 December 1968 BEAUTY IN MAN AND WOMAN Anyone who can appreciate beauty knows that there is visual beauty in the human form and face equaling whatever else of beauty the world has to offer. Painters and sculptors have spent more hours re-creating the beauty of the human face and figure than on all other things combined, and poets, too, have lavished their most eloquent words in praise of human beauty. Thus, we find Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849) writing a poem "To Helen" that glows with lovely phrasing as he describes Helen of Troy, ancient symbol of the idealization of pure beauty: Helen, thy beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks of yore, That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, way-worn wanderer bore To his own native shore. On desperate seas long wont to roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have brought me home To the glory that was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome. Lo! In yon brilliant window-niche How statue-like I see thee stand! The agate lamp within thy hand, Ah! Psyche, from the regions which Are Holy Land. There is, however, another kind of womanly beauty more beautiful than any that is merely physical. Indeed, physical beauty at its loveliest is radiant with the reflection of inward spirituality. And even when physical beauty seems altogether lacking, there can exist an integrity of character, a pleasantness of personality, and a conscious good grooming that are far more attractive than mere prettiness or handsomeness. We can't all be pretty or hand- 952 some, but we can all be friendly and genuine. George Eliot (1819- 1880) had this in mind when, in her novel Adam Bede, she argued for honesty and realism in literature: These fellow-mortals, every one, must be accepted as they are: you can neither straighten their noses, nor brighten their wit, nor rectify their dispositions; and it is these people— amongst whom your life is passed— that it is needful you should tolerate, pity, and love.... So I am content to tell my simple story, without trying to make things seem better than they are; dreading nothing, indeed, but falsity.... All honour and reverence to the divine beauty of form! Let us cultivate it to the utmost in men, women, and children —in our gardens anid in our houses. But let us love that other beauty too, which lies in no secret of proportion, but in the secret of deep human sympathy. "STELLA'S BIRTHDAY" Jonathan Swift (1667-1745) also knew that surface beauty is a deceptive quality. In "Stella's Birthday" he shows his lifelong devotion to his beloved Stella (Hester Johnson). He makes her not only a very believable woman, but also a very adored woman. The poem is charming and lovely, not so much because Stella at thirty-four is double her sixteenyear-old size, as because Swift makes clear that he loves her for her mind, her wit, her personality, her goodness rather than for her mere physical beauty: Stella this day is thirty-four (We shan't dispute a year or more)— However, Stella, be not troubled, Although thy size and years are doubled, Since first I saw thee at sixteen, The brightest virgin on the green, So little is thy form declined; Made up so largely in thy mind. Oh, would it please the gods, to split Thy beauty, size and years, and wit; No age could furnish out a pair Of nymphs so graceful, wise, and fair: With half the lustre of your eyes, With half your wit, your years, and size. And then, before it grew too late, How should I beg of gentle Fate (That either nymph might have her swain) To split my worship too in twain. In the preceding four years of this series we have, again and again, presented portraits of admirable men and women—not perfect, because they are human, but with admirable qualities. (See Section 5 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books for a listing of about thirty of these portraits.) One further example of beauty in character, referred to in lesson 2, is Socrates. (See Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, Section Two.) "T pray Thee, oh God, that I may be beautiful within" is the statement by Socrates with which this lesson begins. If ever a man had courage and integrity, which together make beauty of character, Socrates did. Unflinching honesty compelled him to die rather than to violate his integrity. He said, moreover, that whatever the consequences, one should recognize the authority of the law. And so he drank hemlock poison, comforting his friends who had gathered round in his prison cell as the numbness of death crept upon him. All of this is recorded by the great philosopher Plato, who was Socrates' pupil, in the dialogues Crito and Phaedo. The following brief passage is from the Crito: Think not of hfe and children first, and of justice afterwards, but of justice first.... Depart in innocence, a sufferer and not a doer of evil; a victim, not of the laws, but of men. Men of Athens, Lesson Department I honor and love you; but I shall obey God rather than you. BEAUTY IN NATURE In "Fra Lippo Lippi," one of his great poems on art, Robert Browning says: You've seen the world— The beauty and the wonder and the power, The shapes of things, their colors, light and shades, Changes, surprises—and God madeit all! — For what? What's it all about? To be passed over, despised? Or dwelt upon, Wondered at? Oh, this last of course!— you say: But why not do as well as say—paint these Just as they are, careless what comes of it? God's works—paint any one, and count it crime To let a truth slip. If you get simple beauty and naught else, You get about the best thing God invents— This world's no blot for us, Nor blank; it means intensely, and means good— To find its meaning is my meat and drink. The speaker is Fra Lippo Lippi, one of the major Renaissance painters of Florence, into whose mouth Browning puts his own philosophy of art—that God created a world of beauty, and it is the artist's opportunity to reproduce this beauty, isolating points of beauty for greater appreciation. Many poets, as well as painters, share this philosophy of art, and hundreds of excellent poems are concerned primarily with describing the beauties of nature. One of the most gifted of all nature lovers was Gerard Manley Hopkins (1844-1889). Hopkins combines a love of nature with a worship of God, clearly seen in the following little poem called "Pied Beauty": 953 December 1968 Glory be to God for dappled things— For skies as couple-colored as a brinded cow; For rose-moles all in stipple upon trout that swim; Fresh-firecoal; chestnut-falls; wings; Landscapes plotted and pieced—fold, fallow, and plow; And all trades, their gear and tackle and trim. All things counter, original, spare, strange; finches' Whatever is fickle, freckled (who knows how?) With swift, slow; sweet, sour; adazzle, dim; He fathers-forth whose beauty is past change: Praise Him. Stippling is a method of painting by dotting with the end of a brush, which is exactly the right way to describe the "rose-moles"' dotting the sides of a certain kind of trout—one of the several multicolored things that Hopkins draws attention to in this exciting little poem. Equally superb as a nature poet who both described the beauties of nature and created beautiful poetry in the process is John Keats (1795-1821). No poet was concerned about beauty more than Keats, who in Endymion said "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" and in "Ode on a Grecian Urn" said "Beauty is truth, truth beauty,—that is all/Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." SONNET 'COMPOSED UPON WESTMINSTER BRIDGE" Another great nature lover, who found not only beauty in nature but also sublime religious experiences, was William Wordsworth (1770-1850). Of his many nature poems, one of the finest is a sonnet "Composed upon West- 954 minster Bridge" which describes the huge city of London asleep in early morning, bathed from all sides with the beauties and wonders of nature—the gliding river, the open fields, the streaming early-morning sun, and the pure smokeless air in the sky overhead. The sonnet provides us with at least two levels of appreciation. First of all, it is aesthetically beautiful—the liquid sound of rhyme and rhythm, the clean, clear images, the simple but dignified diction. Beyond this aesthetic appeal lies deeper meaning, however. The city is personified as a sleeping giant, wearing the beauty of the morning like a garment (lines 4-5), with a mighty heart beating as it sleeps (line 14), and with the pure world of nature all around. The "smokeless air," contrasting with the smoke and grime of normal city atmosphere, seems especially significant, apparently symbolizing the purity of nature's spirit which pervades the entire scene. The result is a poem enchanting in its loveliness as we feel the slumbering power of the great city of London almost transfigured in the beautiful full dawn of morning. Earth has not anything to show more fair: Dull would he be of soul who could pass by A sight so touching in its majesty. This City now doth, like a garment, wear The beauty of the morning; silent, bare, Ships, towers, domes, theatres, and temples lie Open unto the fields, and to the sky, All bright and glittering in the smokeless alr. Never did the sun more beautifully steep In his first splendour, valley, rock, or hill; Ne'er saw I, never felt, a calm so deep! The river glideth at his own sweet will: Dear God! The very houses seem asleep; And all that mighty heart is lying still! ROSE PARADE TOUR December 26 - January 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 RETROSPECT When my children were young, And careless or mussy, My grandmother smiled, As | tried to be fussy; And she laughed, as with pride | assuredly stated, "Things will be different, After they're mated, No broken knick knacks— No finger marks then, My house will be tidy And spotless again." But now, | laugh, too, At such trivial talk, For my first darling grandchild Has just learned—to walk! —Ruth G. Rothe Lesson Department BEAUTY IN ART In its concern for beauty, literature treats not only beauty in people and beauty in nature but also beauty in art. In this sense, literature both discusses and creates beauty. As an example of sheer artistic beauty in poetry we draw attention to "Kubla Khan" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. (Because this poem is fairly long, we do not have space to print it here; but it is printed in full in the text and is also easily available in many other volumes of poetry.) Many readers feel that there is deep symbolic meaning in this poem, and perhaps there is. Various interpretations have been given, both philosophical and allegorical. Other readers argue that the poem contains no deep meanings but is simply the marvelous beginning of a verse narrative, such as "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" or "Christabel." Still other readers feel that it is primarily descriptive. Our purpose in citing the poem is to illustrate artistic excellence, the sheer beauty of language in the creative hands of one of the great word masters. Whatever else "Kubla Khan" is, it is hauntingly beautiful poetry, "directionless melody" as one critic said, hovering over a dream landscape combining the extremes of beauty and terror. No matter which passage one examines, the wordhandling is flawless—a magic interweaving of alliteration, assonance, rhyme, onomatopoeia, shimmering imagery, varying rhythms—all the devices that in the hands of a master give to 955 December 1968 poetry the beauty of music as well as the more obvious qualities of literature. "ON HEARING A SYMPHONY BY BEETHOVEN" BY EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY Up to this point we have used selections concerned with beauty in literature. Writers are also concerned, of course, with beauty in the other arts—music, for example. Music delights us when we are happy, comforts us when we mourn, gives courage when we are frightened, stirs us when we are apathetic, sustains us when we are soul-troubled, and fills us with religious adoration when we worship. That music can do all these things, and more, is attested not only by the experience of humanity through centuries, but by hundreds of stories, poems, and essays bearing record of the power, delight, and beauty of music. As a sampling of all these, we now print just one little poem—a sonnet by Edna St. Vincent Millay entitled "On Hearing a Symphony of Beethoven." Miss Millay's poetry, ranging from ecstasy in her early poems to bitterness in her later verse, reflects the complexity of her years of struggle to find happiness. A lover of beauty wherever she could find it, she especially loved music, finding in it a temporary escape from the frustrations of her personal world. We - feel this point of view in the poem that follows, a poem of intensity—in its language, in thought, and in emotion: Sweet sounds, oh, beautiful music, do not cease! Reject me not into the world again. 956 With you alone is excellence and peace. Mankind made plausible, his purpose plain. Enchanted in your air benign and shrewd. With limbs a-sprawl and empty faces pale, The spiteful and the stingy and the rude Sleep like the scullions in the fairty-tale. This moment is the best the world can give: The tranquil blossom on the tortured stem. Reject me not, sweet sounds! Oh, let me live, Till Doom espy my towers and scatter them, A city spell-bound under the aging sun. Music my rampart, and my only one. CONCLUSION The lesson printed here consists mostly of excerpts from Section 5 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books. In addition to these excerpts, Section 5 contains "There Is a Garden in Her Face" (poem) by Thomas Campion; Sonnet 130 by Shakespeare; "Love Poem" by John Frederick Nims; "Moonrise" (poem) by Gerard Manley Hopkins; "To Autumn" (poetic ode) by John Keats; "Apology for Bad Dreams" (poem) by Robinson Jeffers; the text of "Kubla Khan" by Coleridge; "What Is Poetry?" (essay) by Gertrude Stein; "Ars Poetica" (poem) by Archibald MacLeish; an excerpt (discussing two of Turner's paintings) from Modern Painters by John Ruskin; "On the Grasshopper and Cricket" by John Keats and "Cargoes" by John Masefield, and fuller discussions of all of these than space permits here. The selections by Nims, Jeffers, Stein, MacLeish, Masefield, and Millay are still covered by copyright restrictions. All other selections may be reprinted as desired for teaching purposes. December 1968 REMEMBERED SUMMER ' The summer mountains, Waterfalls, Splashing fountains In the rocky brook, Deep pools, sun-bright, The pines in tall Green silhouettes Against blue space Of infinite sky, The soft caress Of whispering wind, Bird song and flight— This loveliness Returns to mind, Evoked now by The single treasure Of a blue jay feather Marking my place In the winter book. —Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn BLAU All Grain Stone Ground Flour Mill For full information, write Dept. R. S. P. O. Box 115 Tremonton, Utah 84337 BEST WISHES FOR A a DESERET PFPews PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 MARRIAGE | feel a silken thread Each day wind 'round my existence, Not in tangles, But in patterns; Not to bind me, But to free. | have wanted the thread-like duties Marriage has brought, Not to stop my doing, But to guide my steps, Not to prevent my youth and joy, But enrich. | have found here peace To last the eternities. So this is what heaven is all about. —Katherine F. Larsen 958 996l-Z°8l ALFIQOS ATITIYA AO AMQUSIAN mee _— 7 -of f peer soceT i aegy" ORE "Wht Ye Na: That aS) Mast BR Sibewt Why Father's Crcsineas?" J. REUBEN CLARK, UR Christmas Gifts History of Relief Society 144 pages illustrated $4.00 The Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double goldfilled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pin Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10—12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware. With bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 '"'Wist Ye Not that | Must Be About My Father's Business?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 All Postpaid Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 959 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 101 98 95 94 93 92 960 Mrs. Annie M. Roberts Smith Mrs. Rosamond Murphy Packer Salt Lake City, Utah Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Katie Holliday Cragun Caden treat Portland, Oregon Mrs. Elizabeth Bohi Peck Mrs. Mary Allen Jungerheld Kalamazoo, Michigan 91 Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Minnie Crum Carnes Safford, Arizona Berkeley, California Mrs. Anna Mary Ball Frewin Salt Lake City, Utah 90 Mrs. Rose Ellen Webster Berry Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Grand Junction, Colorado Lorenzo, Idaho Mrs. Tora Burr Case Provo, Utah Mrs. Bertha Ellen Winn Mrs. Teenie Bowns Cox Coburg, Oregon Woodruff, Utah Mrs. Amanda Olsen Edler Mrs. Eda Picot Martin Heber City, Utah Anaheim, California Mrs. Mary Peterson Brown Mrs. Lucinda Johnson fl P, PA AMMA Mrs. Clara Parkes Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ann Compton Hess Mrs. Emma Johanna Ottesen Halverson Long Beach, California Mrs. Nellie May Thomas Boyce Humphre Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. Jakobina Tvedt Miner Mrs. Alzada Marquess Holt Winslow, Arizona Mrs. Adah Alzina Harper Martin Safford, Arizona Central, Arizona Mrs. Elizabeth Richards Owens Orosi, California Joseph, Utah CNY! HAPPINESS Happiness is a four-year-old Dancing in the wind— Flying hair and hands outstretched, Skirts billowing behind. Happiness is a four-year-old Exhibiting her charms, Seized by shyness suddenly, Held fast in Mother's arms. —Zara Sabin Et en by Berta H. Christensen Make December's family home evenings distinctive. Here is specially selected Christmas lore for family enjoyment during the Christmas holidays. Prose and Poetry in a beautify} gift volume. A cherished remembrance. $3.95 hg _ COMES AGAIN When He Comes Again by Mirla Greenwood Thayne Through colorful, delightful drawings follow a young boy experiencing Savior will come again. Includes the words and music to the DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 3%2% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me C] CHRISTMAS {5 FOR YOU [) When He Comes Again SALT LAKE city 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST. ORANGE. CALIFORNIA - - = —————43 = oo — SS.2S==>= aw Se Enclosed find check 1, money order [], checked established account []. I 5 SRS ee eee State ome | oF 3, i ea <p xy *8, 'e % fs, e ah ao PUMPKIN PIE 3 egg yolks 1 tablespoon unflavored % cup U AND | SUGAR gelatin (or 1 envelope) 14% cups cooked or % cup cold water canned pumpkin 3 stiffly beaten egg Ye cup milk whites Ym tsp. Salt % cup U AND | SUGAR 1% tsp. Ginger 1 baked 9" or 10" ¥ tsp. Cinnamon pastry shell 14 tsp. Nutmeg Ll 1 ee ee eee ee eee eee eee Beat egg whites and!/, cup sugar, and set aside. Beat egg yolks and 1/, cup sugar until thick. Add pumpkin, milk, salt, and spices. Cook in double boiler until thick. Soften gelatin in cold water, stir into hot mixture. Fold in egg white mixture. Pour into baked, cooled pastry shell and chill. Top with whipping cream. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Ptit? The magic of Sugarplum Land in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make Pumpkin Pie for a real family taste treat. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.


