A picture -_ of carefree happiness.. Guaranteed by Beneficial Life Insurance Your family deserves to enjoy the pleasant. Happy, things of life and you can also make sure — have the opportunity to achieve all they have set their hearts on if you have provided them with a secure financial future through foresight and planning - and life insurance. Second Class Postage Paic¢ at Salt Lake City, Utah And you can do it so easily; a stroke of your pen can create an "Instant Estate" for your family. This "Instant Estate" can be tailored to your specific needs by a knowledgeable and experienced Beneficial Life Agent. Give him the opportunity to complete the picture of happiness for you. Ralenance r Cimpany i Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Sait Lake City, Utah The Cover: § Frontispiece: | Art Layout: f [ 4 + SOLACE Alda L. Brown For | have seen the wanton breath of spring Lure a lifeless tendril from the earth And guide its tangled fingers to the sun. From darkest embryonic pulse New life was born! Wounded. | listened close To: hear the limpid song of thrush! 'Soft cadence now that once was stilled! Symphony. Where silence long had kept Its muted sentinel of death! Yet, surely, there was song. And hope was there— Waiting as a molten ember waits For one quick spark To kindle and flare again And burst to buoyant flame! Lift up your heart! Reach high! God heals the anguished hour Of grieving. Desert Blossoms Near Lynndyl, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Light and Shadow, Caineville, Utah ~ Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes illustrations: |, Mary Scopes 81 The Relief Society Magazine 

Volume 55 February 1968 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Content
Special Features 84 Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar Marion G. Romney 90 Eddie—Second Prize Story Mickey Goodwin 96 A Mother Speaks to Her Children of Spiritual Communication Mabel Jones Gabbott 108 Protect Your Whole Family From Heart Disease 115 _—_—' Reflections on the Glory of Freedom Josephine H. Beck Fiction 98 The New Neighbor Mabel Harmer 109 The Wedding Gift Kathryn E. Franks 116 The Rock-Strewn Road Carolyn L. Wright 129 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 6 Janet W. Breeze General Features 82 From Near and Far 105 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 106 _— Editorial—To You With Love Marianne C. Sharp 134 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 160 _— Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 121 The Hot Dish Heart Helen Hinckley Jones 124 = Gifts of the Hands and the Heart—Martha Ellen Chadwick 125 Aunt Minerva's Inspiration Dough Minerva P. Everett 125 Pioneer Recipes Ruth Smith 126 Old Goldie Asel B. Brodt 128 Double-Duty Apron § Shirley Thulin Lesson Department 142 ~—s Spiritual Living—The Church and Its Purposes Roy W. Doxey 147 'Visiting Teacher Message—Love Is Active Alice Colton Smith 148 Homemaking—Making Every Room a Library—An Invitation to Learning Celestia J. Taylor 150 = Social Relations—''That's What They Say, Mama'' Alberta H. Christensen 154 Cultural Refinement—''Charity Out of a Pure Heart'' Robert K. Thomas Poetry 81 Solace Alda L. Brown Blind, Dorothy J. Roberts 97; Wakening Thoughts, Sylvia Neale 104; Mother's Gracious Little Granddaughter, Iris W. Schow 114; Wasted Years, Ruth G. Rothe 115; Icicles, Vesta N. Fairbairn 119; For a Hill Child, Ethel Jacobson 120; For Example, Kathryn Kay 127; My Glasses, Lucy Woolley Jones 133; Organ Song, Linnie F. Robinson 129; To A Grandchild, Lucille R. Perry 159. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 83 

[Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session, Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1967] =» I have been greatly impressed by the presentation we have just seen. ["A Call to Benevolence," by Luacine C. Fox] I congratulate Sister Fox on the high quality of the work she does. I was particularly interested in this matter of attitude. About a quarter of a century ago Sister Romney and I moved into a ward in which they were just beginning to build a meetinghouse. The size of the contribution the bishop thought I ought to contribute rather staggered me. | thought it was at least twice as much as he should have asked. However, I had just been called to a rather high Church position, so I couldn't very well tell him where to go. Therefore, I said, "Well, I will pay it, Bishop, but I will have to pay it in installments because I don't have the money." And so I began to pay. And I Elder Marion G. Romney paid and paid until I was down of the Council of the Twelve to about the last three payments, when, as is my habit, I was reading The Book of Mormon, and came to the scripture which sald:. If aman giveth a gift grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God. (Moroni 7:8.) This shocked me because I was out about a thousand dollars. Well, I went on and paid the three installments I had promised to pay, and then I paid several more installments to convince the Lord that I had done it with the right attitude. By extending to me the invitation to speak to you at this time, the Relief Society Presidency has conferred upon me a great honor. And, they have burdened me with a great responsibility. They did not definitively state what they wanted me to talk about. They said anything that would be good for all women, in the Church and out. Not knowing what you want, I selected a theme that I like. I thought there was no need for all of us to be disappointed. Now, I have decided to try to discharge this responsibility by calling your attention to the five great character traits of Mother Eve, as they are revealed in the scriptures. We all know, of course, that she was the first mortal woman, the mother of the human race. I hope that in the next few moments I can persuade you that She was a great and _ noble woman who set an example in righteous living worthy of emulation not only by members of Relief Society but by all other women. Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar The virtues I speak of are these: 1. She labored with her husband. 2. She fulfilled her mission to multiply and replenish the earth. She prayed with her husband. She learned, understood, and appreciated the gospel. 5. With her husband, she taught the gospel to her children. MoO The earliest reference to Eve as a mortal woman is found in the first verse of the 5th chapter of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price. It reads: And it came to pass that after I, the Lord God, had driven them out, that Adam began to till the earth, and to have dominion over all the beasts of the field, and to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow, as I the Lord had commanded him. And Eve, also, his wife, did labor with him. (Moses 5:1.) Laboring with her husband became a grim necessity, as she and Adam began to realize the significance of the "Lord God's"' declaration:... Cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; Thorns... And thistles shall it bring forth to thee. Ln the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground.... (Gen. 3:17-19.) In their valiant, lonely struggle for a livelihood, this noble woman "did labor with" her husband. The word "with," as here used, is very significant. It means more than physical labor. It connotes a common purpose, understanding, cooperation, and love. In this laboring with her husband, she set a pattern worthy of emulation by all her daughters to the latest generation. Although the nature of a wife's 85 February 1968 labor has changed since then, the true relationship of husband and wife has not changed. Even when circumstances justify a wife's working away from home to support her family, she should be laboring "with," not on her own nor in conflict with her husband. Latter-day Saint women, members of Relief Society particularly, might well ponder the significance of, and develop within themselves the great character trait revealed in the statement "and Eve his wife, did labor with him." In Latterday Saint families the husband and the wife must be one. As Paul has said, and which was quoted by Brother Simpson,. Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. (I Cor. 11:11.) Ni ow, after reciting that "she did labor with him," the record makes it plain that she did not shirk the responsibility of motherhood. It says: And Adam knew his wife, and she bare him sons and daughters, and they began to multiply and to replenish the earth. (Moses 5:2.) Later we are told that she bore Cain and Abel. (Moses 5:16-17.) Presumably, she bore Seth and many other children, for the record says that Adam lived after he begat Seth, "eight hundred years and begat... Sons and daughters."' (Moses 6:10-11.) The charge to bear children, which the Lord gave to Eve, and to women, generally, is, by many, flouted today. The sordidness of our society, which on the one hand tolerates, encourages, and 86 even condones such abominations as unchastity and other types of licentious debauchery, and, on the other hand, legalizes abortions, encourages, and in some cases attempts to enforce birth control, is a prostitution of the functions of life. If these practices are not checked and reversed, they will bring us to the degradation of Sodom and Gomorrah, with like tragic consequences. Over and over again, the Lord has inveighed against such abominations. He condemned them in the Ten Commandments; in the Sermon on the Mount, as he gave it in Palestine, and as he later gave it to the Nephites. He condemned them at the beginning of this last dispensation. In the 59th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, after saying "Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill,' he added this significant phrase, "nor do anything like unto it." I have not found in the scriptures a definitive statement of transgression which the Lord would liken unto adultery and _ killing; however, in view of the context in which this phrase appears, it is not unlikely that voluntary abortion would be included in such a list. Latterday Saint women must continue to be earth's noblest bulwark against these wicked and abominable practices. Most Relief Society women are under a divine charge to "multiply and = replenish the earth," just as was Mother Eve. By seeking to emulate her compliance with this divine com- Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar mand, they will find the surest path to glory. Now, the third reference to Eve as a mortal, pictures her joining with her husband in calling upon the Lord: And Adam and Eve, his wife, called upon the name of the Lord, and they heard the voice of the Lord from the way toward the Garden of Eden, speaking unto them, and they saw him not; for they were shut out from his presence. (Moses 5:4.) This is the first scriptural reference to prayer among mortals. It was no ordinary prayer. The circumstances under which it was offered were not ordinary circumstances. When Adam and Eve were driven from the Garden of Eden they were banished— that is, shut out—from the presence of the Lord. Through suffering, toil, and sorrow, they wrested a living from the earth for themselves and their dependents. They had wrestled with the questions and problems incident to rearing a family, without knowledge of the purpose of mortal life or the overall plan for eternal life. It would seem that in their great perplexity, remembering their association with the Lord in the Garden of Eden, they were in desperation, driven to call upon him for help. To do so was a crucial decision. For them to pray was not only necessary— although they did not then realize it—it was indispensable to their receiving a knowledge and understanding of the gospel. Praying together is today indispensable for husbands and wives who would hold their families together and bring them along the way of eternal life. The wise wife and mother will do her best so to organize her home as to promote daily family prayer. When she kneels with her husband and other members of the family and calls upon the name of the Lord, she will not only be following the example of Eve, she will also be following the counsel of the Prophet Joseph to provoke her husband to good works. Praying together materially advances a_ family along the way to eternal life. In answer to their calling upon him, the Lord gave to Adam and Eve two commandments. First, ".. That they should worship the Lord their God..." (this is the first time that mortals were commanded to pray) and second, they "... Should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord." (Moses 5:5.) The consequences of implicit obedience to these commandments, gave Eve opportunity to demonstrate her great mental and spiritual power to understand and appreciate the truths of the gospel. Adam obeyed the Lord's command. And after many days, an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer these sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. (Moses 5:6.) And then the angel proceeded to teach Adam the gospel. He told him that the sacrifice he was offering was a "similitude of the... [infinite] sacrifice" which Jesus would make in the meridian 87 February 1968 of time; that Jesus would be the Son of God—his Only Begotten in the flesh. Not only did the angel teach Adam, the Holy Ghost also came and taught him, and God himself "by his own voice" instructed - him. He was taught concerning the pre-existence, the creation of the earth—which he himself had participated in but had now forgotten—the fall, the reason for mortality, the mission of Christ and the whole gospel plan; faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism by water for the remission of sins, baptism by fire for the gift of the Holy Ghost, the resurrection, immortality, and eternal life. And it came to pass that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried: down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. And he heard a voice out of heaven saying... Behold, thou art one in me,. A son of God; and thus may all men become my sons. (Moses 6:64-66, 68.) Wi his: gospel plan was great news to Adam. It revealed to him the way by which he and all men may rise from fallen mortality back into the presence of God. And in that day Adam blessed God and was filled, and began to prophesy concerning all the families of the earth, saying: Blessed be the name of God, for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy, and again in the flesh I shall see God. (Moses 5:10.) And what was Eve's reaction? 88 The record answers: And Eve, his wife, heard all these things and was glad, saying: Were it not for our transgression we never should. Have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient. (Moses 5:11.) Many people talk = about — women talking loosely. I don't. Know of any statement in the scriptures with more meat and understanding and wisdom in it than that short paragraph spoken by Mother Eve. Her understanding, acceptance, and appreciation of the revelations received by her husband, who communed with heaven, characterize her as having a great mind, a noble character, and a spiritual soul. It has not always been easy for a wife to accept revelations given through her husband. Sariah complained against Lehi, telling him that he was a visionary man; saying: Behold thou hast led us forth from. The land of our inheritance, and my sons are no more, and we perish in the wilderness. (I Nephi 5:2.) The Prophet Joseph's wife had difficulty. Understanding him. Perhaps you have heard of some women who complain about the time their husbands spend in Church work. It is difficult fully to appreciate the relief. And the joy and the happiness experienced by Adam and Eve at the good news of the gospel. During the. Considerable time since they left Eden, they had been learning the hard way— through trial and error. As they toiled and suffered, no doubt Eve indulged in some self-condemnation and regrets over the part she Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar had played in bringing about their expulsion. From the Garden, for at this time, neither she nor Adam nor any of their posterity knew anything about the plan of salvation, nor the significance of their action in the Garden in implementing it. And so it was that. As the gospel unfolded, revelation after revelation, she listened with rapt attention, she heard, she responded, she understood, she. Believed, and was glad. Her mind grasped the meaning of it all and her. Spirit soared. In great relief and ecstasy it was: that she expressed the feelings of her soul in these majestic phrases: Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient. (Moses 5:11.) PPortunate - indeed are the husband and the children of a woman who can learn, understand, and appreciate the gospel as did Mother Eve. In this respect she was a most worthy example. The scriptures stress another phase of her conduct which is worthy of emulation. She, with her husband, taught their children the gospel. In revealing the gospel to Adam, the Lord said:. When they. [thy children] begin to grow up, sin conceiveth in their hearts, and they taste the bitter, that they may know to prize the good. And it is given unto them to know good from evil; wherefore they are agents unto themselves [We can't always control them, but we can teach them], and I have given unto you another law and a commandment. And the other law he gave them was the law of repentance and forgiveness. Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there.. Therefore, I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children. And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters. (Moses 6:57-58; 5:12.) Now, all Latter-day Saint parents are today under divine command to emulate Adam and Eve in this respect. In November 1831, the Lord said:. Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord. (D&C 68:25, 26, 28.) And_ now, by way of epilogue, if, in the future, any one of you, when you think of Mother Eve, remember that she labored with her husband; filled her mission to multiply and replenish the earth; prayed with her husband; learned and understood and appreciated the gospel; taught her children the gospel; and so remembering, seek to emulate her example, these remarks will have. Accomplished their purpose. God bless you, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 89 SECOND PRIZE STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest EDDIE Mickey Goodwin » The sun shone down on Eddie's brown back as he stood at the top of the hill. He could feel the soft summer wind blowing his hair and pulling at his pants' legs. The prairie earth and new grass felt warm under his feet. From his place on the hill, Eddie could see for miles to the east. The sky was high and warm as a light blue blanket. The sunshine made the prairie a lovely land of lavender, orange, and_ yellow. Below him, gray smoke drifted lazily upward through the cottonwood trees. He knew his mother must be frying bread. He could hear the laughter of his little sisters as they chased one another around the house. His brown eyes sparkled with pleasure. His young mouth was spread into a fine smile. The wind made strands of black hair dance on his forehead. Eddie breathed deeply. It was a good day. He felt warm and clean and free. 90 moving Just then his ranging glance caught sight of a cloud of dust rapidly toward him across the prairie. That was what he had been waiting to see. He knew it was his dad coming home with the check. Instantly Eddie was in motion. His arms went out, his legs shot him forward down the hill, and a great, long "Yahoo" burst forth from his lungs. 'He's coming. He's coming," Eddie yelled as he raced down the hill, dashing around the cactus and leaping over the sagebrush. '""Dad's coming," he yelled again as he ran across the bare-packed earth near the house and stopped beside his mother. "Is Dad coming?" his mother asked. 'He said I could go to Rapid City with him," Eddie said, excitedly. The old dog stood up and stretched. He stuck his nose affectionately in Eddie's hand, hoping to get his ears scratched. But Eddie was too busy. He turned around and bounced out to the front of the house just as his dad stopped the car. "Are we going, Dad?" The big man nodded and said, "Yup. Are you ready? You'll have to get on a shirt and your shoes." "Hey, Mom," Eddie called as he danced back to his mother where she knelt beside the fire. "Where's my shirt and shoes? We're going to Rapid City!" His mother stood up and smiled at him. She picked up the side of her skirt and wiped her hands on it. "You've not been there for a long time, have you?" Eddie was impatient. "Where's my stuff?" She reached out and ruffled his hair. "Last time I saw your shoes they were under the girls' bed. You'll have to pull that box out to get them." Eddie disappeared into the house to get his shoes. He knew where he could find a shirt, because he had left one in his bed a couple of days before. Eddie ran into the house and dropped on his knees beside the girls' bed. He tugged and pushed at the box to move it aside. He wiggled into the darkness under the bed and felt around for his shoes. He grabbed the _ shoes and sat on his own bed to put them on. He threw back the edge of the blanket to find the shirt and dashed out the door as he swung the shirt over his shoulders. "Guess I'm ready," he said, stopping in front of his father to finish buttoning the shirt. His Eddie dad was leaning against the car eating a piece of the hot frybread. He looked down at Eddie and grinned. "You better get something to eat. It's a long way to town." Eddie ran his hands over the dust on the car fender, making a road with his fingers. He took the fry-bread his mother was holding and walked back to the car. He shifted the bread from hand to hand to cool it. His little sisters were bouncing on the back seat and watching the puffs of dust they made. Eddie opened the car door, feeling much older and wiser than his sisters. "Okay, get out. Dad and me are going to town." "Eddie thinks he's smart," the older girl chided grudgingly as she slid out of the car. The little sister slid out behind her, grabbed her hand, and began a sing-song chant. "Eddie thinks he's smar-rt. Eddie thinks he's smar-rt."' Together, the girls danced around the car chanting their derision of Eddie. "Dumb girls," he muttered and slammed the door. Eddie put his feet on the dash and curled down in the seat. The sun felt hot through the wind shield. The bright sound of a meadow lark came to his ears. The bread in his hand was crisp and satisfying. He had a shirt on his back and shoes on his feet. He was going to town with his dad. The whole world was wonderful to Eddie. He smiled to himself. He felt fine. It seemed to Eddie as if it took a long, long time to get to town. Sometimes he talked with his dad and sometimes he didn't. When 91 February 1968 they came to an end of things to say, Eddie climbed over into the back seat for awhile. Then, lmpatient to get to town, he climbed over the seat again into the front. When the first buildings of the city appeared Eddie began to bounce on the edge of the seat. Going to town was almost the most exciting thing of the summer for him. The rodeo was more exciting, and there would be many things to do at the powwow, but he was wonderfully happy to get to go to town. Eddie's dad reached a big hand over and put it on Eddie's head to stop the bouncing. "Whoa, Eddie," he said. "You can't make the car get there any faster that way." Eddie grinned and tried to sit still. His dad drove to a big buiiding on a busy street near the railroad track. He said he had to take care of some business inside. He told Eddie he would take him up town as soon as he could get back. Eddie was content to wait for a few minutes. He watched the trucks with their big trailers rumble down the street. A switch engine with its cars in tow fascinated him for awhile. He looked at the shiny, new cars. Two pickups went by pulling horse trailers. They made Eddie think of his own little bay horse. When he thought of his horse he thought of home. He wondered what his mother was doing. He wondered if his sisters were riding his horse. The car was so hot, and he suddenly felt so alone that he almost wished he was back home again. Just then his dad came. Eddie was glad to go. When his dad parked in front of a parking meter on Main 92 Street, Eddie put the nickels in it. He just couldn't help being curious about where the money went after he turned the handle. He put both his hands on the meter pole and shook it. He couldn't hear anything jingling. He wondered if the whole pole was full of money. "You want to come with me, or you just want to look around here?" Eddie's dad asked him. Eddie studied the stores a minute. The variety store was right in front of them. The souvenir store was next door. There was a hardware store, and next to it was a shoe store and saddle shop. Thinking his dad was just going to get some things for his mother, Eddie said, "Guess I'll stay here. Can I have some money?" His dad grinned at him and reached in his pocket. '"Here's a dollar. Maybe you can get something for the girls, too." Eddie's mouth spread into a wide, bright smile. "Stay right close," his dad said. "I'll be back in a bit and I don't want to have to hunt for you." "Okay," Eddie answered, and put the money in his pocket. His dad started down the street and Eddie went in the variety store. He looked and looked. All the toys were interesting. He felt like touching everything, especially the things that had moving parts. He couldn't decide what to buy. The wind-up monkey drummer looked fine, but he liked the toy truck with the horse trailer, too. He decided to take the jumping ropes for his sisters and some bubble gum. That would leave about sixty-five cents for himself. Then Eddie found a big water pistol. "Oh, boy, fifty shots," he said, reading the package advertisement to himself. He turned to go and almost bumped into one of the ladies who worked in the store. She looked down at him and moved aside. Eddie started toward the front of the store, the clerk following him. He picked up six pieces of bubble gum and two candy bars and then went to the cashier. He glanced behind him when he stopped and saw the clerk standing a few feet away watching him carefully. He turned his eyes away and pulled the dollar bill from his pocket. The clerk shrugged her shoulders and walked toward the back of the store. Eddie left the variety store with the sack of purchases crumpled in his hand. He stopped by the window of the souvenir shop. There were so many little things there that he looked for a long time. He especially liked the bright red velvet on which the souvenirs were displayed. It glowed soft and warm in the afternoon sunlight. The smooth nap reminded him of the shiny, warm shoulders and neck of his little bay horse. Eddie was in no hurry. He studied the things in the hardware store and walked on to the deep glassed-in entrance to the saddle and boot shop. The saddles caught his eye first. There was one something like the one his dad had. There was another for someone about his size. It was carved on the skirts and fenders and shiny nickel studs glistened around the _ edges. Eddie Suddenly Eddie saw the boots! They were boys' boots—red and black and beautiful. The _ bottoms were black and shiny. The toes were low and neat looking. Eddie almost held his breath as he looked at the tops of the boots. They were bright red with designs cut away leaving sparkling white leather beneath. They were carefully and artistically stitched with rows of white thread. Even the finger loops projecting from the tops of the boots were red with white letters on them. Eddie had never seen anything he wanted more. They looked just the right size. He knew they would look wonderful on him and they would feel better than anything he had ever before worn. Eddie pressed closer to the window. He could almost see himself racing across the flats on the little bay with those black and red boots tucked snuggly against the horse's ribs. Eddie took a deep breath. He pressed his nose and_ hands against the window. His hands February 1968 were damp and sticky. They almost clung to the shiny surface. He could feel his eyelashes brushing the glass. Try though he would, he couldn't get closer to the beautiful boots. His warm breath made little clouds of moisture by his face. There was nothing in the world at that moment except Eddie and a pair of red-topped boots. Suddenly, a rough hand grabbed his shoulder and a harsh voice was muttering angrily, "Dirty little Indian. Get your dirty hands off that window." Eddie twisted under the grasp and turned to meet the angry eyes of a woman. Eddie stared unbelieving a long moment. His dark eyes meeting squarely the eyes of the woman. His mouth tightened and little wrinkles formed at the corners of his eyes as he narrowed them in defense. He stepped carefully away from her and walked slowly and deliberately to the car. He opened the car door and sat down. He still clutched the brown paper bag with the water gun and jump ropes in it. His mouth was still drawn into a tight line across his face. Eddie could feel nothing. He could hear none of the street noises that surrounded him. But inside he heard the sound of the woman's angry voice repeating and repeating itself. "Dirty little Indian, dirty little Indian." Eddie couldn't shut it out. For the first time Eddie looked at his hands. The backs of them were smooth and brown. Inside they were wet. The woman who had spoken to him was white. The people on the street were white. Eddie felt a new feel- 94 ing rising within him. If he was a dirty little Indian they must be ugly old white people. The thought made him feel brave. He tried saying the words aloud. "Ugly old white people." For the first time in his life he felt something close to hatred. His only defense at the moment was the angry, muttering repetition of those words. "Ugly old white people!" Just then his dad came. He opened the door and threw several packages into the rear seat. He looked at the one he had held back, then tossed it in Eddie's lap. For a moment Eddie's thoughts left the bitterness that was boiling inside him. He pulled excitedly at the string that held the box. The string broke easily and Eddie pulled the lid from the box. He pushed back the tissue paper and there, unbelievably beautiful, lay the red-topped boots! Eddie pulled in a big breath. "Oh, boy!" he said. But at that moment the ugly sound of the woman's voice burst into his mind again. "Dirty little Indian." The smile fell from Eddie's face. His hands pulled the tissue paper carefully back over the boots. He put the lid on the box. His dad had waited to watch Eddie's pleasure with the boots. He was surprised to see the boy suddenly act as if he didn't care and rewrap the boots. He shrugged. "Funny kid," he said. He slammed the car door again, started the engine, and they began the long trip home. Eddie held the box on his lap all the way. Inside he felt like a cloudy day. He would be glad to get back to his house, to the sandy creek and the gray smoke fire. That evening as his mother sat quietly in the dark outside the house, Eddie sat down beside her. He didn't say anything for awhile. At last he said, "Mama?" She reached her hand. To him in the darkness and put it on the back of his head. "What?" she answered. He hesitated a moment. "Mama, are we dirty Indians?" She drew in a deep breath. "No, Eddie, we are not dirty Indians. What made you ask that?" "A white woman in town called me that. She told me not to touch her old windows." His mother pulled his head over to her shoulder. "T used to wonder about that, too. But now I know better. Remember those Mormon elders who came to see us? They told us something I never knew. They said that God loves us. We belong to him." "Those Mormons are white men," Eddie interrupted. "They call us dirty Indians." His mother squeezed him lightly. '""No, Eddie. They won't call us that. They call us brother Eddie and sister. They say they know who we are. They say we are Israel." "What does that mean?" "T don't really know yet. But it's something like being from a special tribe. I think they've been sent to help us. Your dad and I like them. They bring a good feeling here. They say the Indians can do great things." Eddie didn't say anything. He liked the Mormons, too. '"'Are we Mormons, Mama?" he asked. "No," she answered, "but I think we will be pretty soon." "Mormon," Eddie said, "Mormon. I guess I'll be an elder Mormon." He stood up and kicked at the dirt in the darkness with his new boots. "T'm going to bed now," he said, and went into the house. His mother smiled softly. The night was clean and cool. An owl made his questioning call from the cottonwood trees. The horses in the corral stirred slightly. She heard Eddie sit on his creaking bed. She heard the clicking sound as his shirt buttons hit the floor. The bed squeaked again. There was no sound of boots hitting the floor. She knew Eddie had worn them to bed. Mickey Goodwin, a writer new to The Relief Society Magazine. And a young mother. Tells us that she feels grateful and honored to be a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest "We are an Air Force family who greatly enjoy the variety of experiences that comes to us because of our frequent moves. My husband. Robert H. Goodwin, our six children, and | are members of the Lompoc Second Ward in the Santa Maria Stake, California. My parents are Cecil M. And Eloise C. Hosman who live in Mobridge, South Dakota. Just before coming to California we spent two years in South Dakota. Where | had the opportunity of serving in the Relief Society Presidency of the Northern Indian Mission. 'Eddie' is probably a direct result of that experience. My literary accomplishments, to date, consist of a drawer full of unpublished poetry and short stories. | do write a monthly column for our loca! Air Force wives' magazine. | am very pleased and grateful to have my first real publication in The Relief Society Magazine."' 95 Mabel Jones Gabbott Nee = How can I tell you of spiritual * communication? How can I explain to you that God knows how you feel, what you say, and what you do—when you share your life with him? 'He is our Father in heaven. I am your earthly mother, I can tell you how I know about you—of our communication. Perhaps this would be a guide. When you girls were very little, you had the mumps; your throats were sore; you could not talk; you wanted only soothing liquids to drink. Many times in each hour I would bring to your room a tray with something surprising for you to wile away the time, to soothe your burning throats, or to ease your discomfort. Once, removing the tray, I found on it a little note: "Thank you, mother; you are very good to us." The blessings given to us from our Heavenly Father are many. You should say thanks to him often, sincerely. Yesterday at dinner, you, my youngest son, a very new deacon, were telling of your concern about the sacrament time; the boys passing the sacrament had almost missed a row; they were embarrassed. You shared this experience shyly. Last week you, my second son, went with your Priesthood group to see "Promised Valley." Standing in our bedroom doorway in the summer night, you described the costumes, the humor, the music, and the lighting outside the temple, with an eagerness for us, your parents, to share in your enthusiasm. It was late when our second daughter came in from the birthday party; but, whispering in the wee hours, so we would not disturb the others, you told of the cake and the singing, of the lovely gift, -of the new boy you had met. There was hesitancy in your voice, my eldest, as you told of the party at Ed's house; thinking it would be a gay group affair, you 96 A Mother Speaks to Her Children of Spiritual Communication had gone eagerly, only to find it was not of your standards, not of your choosing. There was pride in my heart as I listened to you tell of insisting to be brought home. All the mother instincts, the mother longings, the mother love and pride in me want to know of your joys, of your sorrows, of your successes and of your failures—of the little things that interest you and of the big problems that confront you. Would not our Heavenly Father, with love more infinite, more tender than we can imagine, want also to know about you, want also to have you share your daily learnings, your confidences with him? Take time often to tell him of your struggles, your hopes, your dreams. Talk with him often of your problems and of your happinesses. Pray continually. I had come home tired and exhausted; there in the kitchen you were all busy—setting the table, preparing a salad, easing my burdens.. We had said, "Be home early." The hour passed the early mark; suddenly the car screeched to a halt outside; you came running in— "T am sorry; we had no watch. I am just ten minutes over the time." It was the sacrament meeting; my heart brimmed with gratitude; you were there in your places, obedient, giving service, worshipping together. When you do what you know you should do, whether it is hard or not, whether you want to or not, whether I have asked you to or not—when you do what we both know you should do—you communicate to me in a way more definite than words that you are spiritually strong and secure. We read: "... He that doeth the will of God abideth for ever." These are ways of spiritual communication. BLIND | Dorothy J. Roberts | Is ''wait'' not word but very life To him—the wait for dawns © Never to come, for ships never in, For sea to grow blue-green and visible. A wait whorled with music, Roiled with sound on all fronts approaching. A wait loud with strangers, Or a wait murmurous with insects Or sibilant with the whisperings of love. But a wait, an endless waiting In the gray-dark apartness, Striking the match of hope. 97 | Ota, Ne cn. ~ 2 e | As Neighbor | a> Mabel Harmer #» Celia Mott stood by her livingroom window watching the man unload the furniture from the moving van into the house next door. She believed that her concern was entirely legitimate. She wanted to know as soon as possible if there were children in the family. Not that she minded children, she dearly loved her own grandchildren. She just didn't want any next door—not after the dose she had had with the Markham boys. As Henry had said after an unusually rowdy session, "Well, boys will be boys, you know." Celia agreed. She just didn't want them next door. There had been nothing vicious, or even mischievous about the Markham boys. It was just that their balls had a special affinity for her back yard, and 98 they leaped or climbed the fence to retrieve them. She had just now been able to get the trumpet vine into shape again after the many beatings it had endured during the climbs. The basketball hoop on the garage door had provided another cause for annoyance. The ball banged first against the door and then onto the cement below, early in the morning and late at night. The dog had never been allowed out of the yard, except on leash, but it had barked at the sound of every siren, no matter how distant. It seemed to hear them especially well in the middle of the night. No, Celia sincerely hoped that there would be no boys in the new family next door. A car had driven up now and a woman got out. At first glance, Celia thought she must be quite young. She was slender, very quick in her movements and wore a dirndl skirt. In addition, her hair was piled high on her head with a bow at the back. A second look showed that she wasn't really so young, after all, just trying to look and act it, Celia decided. The woman began taking things out of the rear of her car. There were bright cushions, lamps and—of all things—a lemon tree. Now why would anyone want a lemon tree in her house? The furniture the men were carrying in was also decidedly on the bright side. The chairs and divan were covered in gay, flowered chintz. There was a dresser that had been painted a bright red. Painters had been over working on the house for the past week. Celia was sure they were needed very badly after the knocks those rough Markham boys must have given the house. Celia turned from the window and went into the kitchen to make some cookies. She always greeted new neighbors' with freshly baked cookies. It gave her a good chance to get acquainted, and they were always very much welcomed in the stress of moving day. She baked her favorite whole-wheat with ground raisins and nuts. It was midafternoon before Celia decided to take them over. That would have given the new neighbor a chance to get at least a few things into place. The neighbor came smiling to the door, "Oh, do come in!" she exclaimed. "How good of you to greet me on moving day." "Thank you," replied Celia. "I The New Neighbor thought you might be able to use these. I daresay baking isn't the first order of business. My name is Celia Mott, and I live right next door south." "How nice,' was the reply. "T'm Kathy Andrews and my husband is Don. He has just been transferred from Columbus. I think it's exciting to move toa new city, don't you?" Celia was a bit nonplused. Actually, moving to another city was the last thing in the world she would have wanted. But she nodded and agreed, "I daresay it would be exciting all right. It's an experience I haven't had." Kathy moved a pile of clothing from a chair and said, "Do sit down. I'll make us a glass of lemonade to go with the cookies. I'm almost starved. I hadn't even thought of eating." She went out into the inal and Celia sat down. The room was in a turmoil, but that was to be expected. She noted that the walls had been painted an apple green and the _ chintzcovered chairs in bright colors gave the impression of a garden. In one corner stood the lemon tree. What was surprising was that the floor was almost covered with pictures and snapshots that had obviously been removed from a packing box. When Kathy returned with the lemonade and cookies, she cleared another chair for herself. Motioning to the litter on the floor, she said, "T was just going over these pictures. I haven't looked at them in years and it was more fun. They go back to my high-school days and that was twenty-five years ago." 99 February 1968 "Indeed." Quick figuring by Celia placed her neighbor's age in the late forties. "I hadn't supposed you were that old." Kathy shrugged. "Oh, yes. One of these first years I'll be fifty. That should be quite a milestone. Half a century sounds terribly old. But then—as long as I don't feel old." She picked up a pile of snaps from the floor. "These are our grandchildren. There are four of them. That was the only bad part of moving. Now we can't see them every day or so. But they'll come often to visit, and I can go back there. Do you have grandchildren?" "Yes, but only three are in the city. We have a son living here and two daughters who live in other cities." "It's lovely that you have one here. We also had a son. He died in Korea." "Oh, what ashame!" exclaimed Celia. It seemed terribly inadequate, but she didn't know what else to say. "Yes it was," said Kathy quietly. Then she brightened and asked, "Would you care to see the rest of the house? Of course, nothing is straight, but we think we re going to like it very much. Would you like to see the kitchen?" "T would, indeed," replied Celia. The kitchen was a bright yellow, and turquoise appliances had already been installed. Each of the other rooms was almost startling in its gay colors. One bedroom was pink walled with raspberry carpeting. Celia quickly decided that she would not care to live in such a rainbow. When she went back home, 100 the order of her always well-kept house was restful and doubly impressive. For a brief moment it did look rather dull, but she told herself that was simply the contrast with so much color. And a very pleasing contrast, she added to herself. She went into the living room and moved Henry's chair over to another place. The carpet under the spot where he put his feet was beginning to show a tiny bit of wear. If this went on it would soon be very noticeable, and the next thing, they would have to buy a new carpet. All for one worn spot that could just as well be avoided. She knew that Henry liked his chair where it had been, as he claimed it was the only place in the room where the light was good, but that was simply a notion. He could move a lamp over and see perfectly well. Celia went outside and picked some marigolds to put in a bowl for the kitchen—something she hadn't done for a long time. There were artificial flowers in the front rooms. They were so much less work and didn't drop petals around. Besides, now that they were in perfectly good taste she was glad to use them. It was a few minutes after five when another car came into the driveway next door. The master of the house stepped out and Celia noted that he, too, was slender and quick in his movements. She was certainly not prepared however, to see Mrs. Andrews rush out of the back door and throw herself into his arms. He kissed her, then lifted her off her feet and swung her around. They must have been separated for rather a long time, thought Celia. That can't be an everyday welcome. When Henry came in a few minutes later she was vaguely irritated with him. In his usual stolid manner he hung his hat in the closet and settled down with the newspaper he had picked up on the way in. Why, in the name of goodness, was she irritated? Celia asked herself. This was the way he came home every night. Did she suddenly expect him to lift her off her feet and swing her around? Hardly. It would have been the most unlikely event of the year. He could say something, however. Anyway, she could. She stopped in the doorway to ask, "Did you have a good day, dear?" "Um—about as usual," he replied, without glancing up from his paper. Her irritation increased, but she went back to the kitchen and took it out in mashing the potatoes. The table was set in the dining room, although there was ample space in the kitchen for the two of them. Henry would just as soon have eaten there. In fact, he thought there was something cozy about it. But Celia wasn't going to slide into such slovenly ways as long as she was able to carry food and dishes that distance. When they had sat down and the blessing had been said, she remarked, "The new neighbors moved in today. I went over and took some cookies." "Oh. That was nice. What are they like?" Henry's tone showed The New Neighbor that he was really much more interested in his steak. "Rather strange,' answered Celia. "She dresses like a schoolgirl, but she's over forty. The house is an absolute riot of color —everything from yellow to raspberry. But the oddest thing about her was that instead of putting her furniture in place, she was sitting in the middle of the floor looking at snapshots." "Well, maybe it was her best chance before she put them away again," said Henry quite unreasonably. "Nonsense! She could always remember where she put them. Anyway, I'm glad for one thing. They don't have any boys." "What's wrong with boys?" Henry demanded. "I seem to remember that you have some grandsons of your own." "T didn't mean it that way. Of course there's nothing wrong with boys. But you know full well what a nuisance it was to have those Markham boys always coming into the yard after their balls and yelling like savages any time, day or night." "Speaking of boys—we ought to have ours to dinner this Saturday. We've been going to their house for months now." "Yes, we should," Celia agreed. "T've asked Marcia a number of times, but she thinks that the boys worry me, for fear they'll break something in the house or spill on the carpets. She says she would rather we would come out there." "Well, it isn't right. We ought to have them here sometimes. You call tomorrow and say that we insist. I'll get something special. Steaks, for instance." 101 February 1968 The next morning Celia called her daughter-in-law to insist that they come to dinner. Marcia hesitated and then said, "All right, if you'll have it out on the patio. Charles can bring his grill and the men can take over. I'm not going to risk having Tony spill root beer on your carpet again." "As you say," Celia agreed, actually with a feeling of relief. She, too, was not anxious to have Tony spill root beer or anything else on her beige carpeting. "How do you like your new neighbors?" was Marcia's next question. "All right," answered Celia. "They're quite different." "Different from what?" "Oh, sort of gay." "You mean night parties?" "Oh, no!" Celia hastened to say. "They only moved in yesterday, and I haven't even met the husband. It's just that the house and furniture are all bright colors and she dresses to match." "That doesn't sound too bad," said Marcia. "No. And, anyway, they don't..' she was about to add "have any boys," but with Marcia's three that wouldn't sound right. So she finished with "have a dog to bark any time it hears a siren." As she dusted, later in the day, she noticed that Henry had left his chair where she had put it. A couple of times he had moved it back again. She guessed that it was just a notion that he couldn't see as well in that light. All he needed was to get used to it. That evening as they were eating dinner, they heard the strumming of a guitar next door. "That 102 sounds peppy," said Henry. "It's a Mexican dance tune. I wonder if my old guitar is still around." "No, it isn't," answered Celia. "We gave it to one of the girls years ago. This is the first time since you've ever mentioned it." "T guess you're right." After dinner Henry went outside and over to the fence. "Hi," he called. "T sure like your music." "Good," answered Mr. Andrews. "Come on over and I'll play your favorite." Henry went over and Celia could hear them laughing and playing the guitar. When she looked out, Henry had taken the instrument and was trying his hand at it again. She hoped that he wouldn't get so engrossed that he would want to get himself another one. After all—at his age—a man should settle down. Well, come to think of it, Henry certainly had _ settled down. This was the first time she had heard him "carrying on" like this in years. - he next morning she was awakened by one of the Andrews' cars driving out at dawn. Later, she called Kathy to say, "T hope that nothing was wrong this morning. When I heard you driving out I thought there might be an emergency." "Not at all," Kathy answered breezily. "We just drove up on the hillside to watch the dawn. It's a marvelous sight. Especially at this time of the year." Celia Mott spent the morning polishing silver. What an outlandish thing to do, anyway, she couldn't help thinking, to get up in the dark and drive out to watch the dawn. It didn't make sense, no matter how you looked at it. When Marcia, Charles, and the children came on Saturday she had set two small tables on the patio, one for the boys and another for the adults. Would have put them together, but she knew that the boys would much rather eat by themselves. She was rather glad that Henry and Charles were broiling the meat because she was tired from going around the block on the Red Cross drive. When Henry had suggested that she ask Kathy to help, she had replied, "That scatter-brain! She would probably forget all about it and spend the day making rose petal sachet. That's what she did yesterday." After dinner the boys were sitting around, clearly waiting for time to go home, when Kathy called over the fence, "Hi, fellows! Would you like to borrow my bow and arrow set?" "Oh, Boy! Ill say!" cried Jimmy, while Matt and Tony all but leaped the fence in their eagerness. Kathy brought it out and Henry set up the target in the rear of the yard. As Celia was gathering up the dishes, she was half provoked at herself for not thinking of some amusement for the boys and half at Kathy for thinking of it in her place. When the time came for the boys to go home, they thanked her most profusely for the good time they had had. Celia assured them that she had enjoyed it, too, and vowed inwardly that she would have a bow and arrow set for them the next time they came-or something as interesting. She The New Neighbor During the next few days she saw Kathy dancing, what seemed to be a tarantella, to the music of the radio. She came over and asked for some nasturtium leaves to scatter on their sandwiches, and she climbed to the top of her house and fastened a weathervane to the roof. So Celia was not too much surprised to see her show up at the front door with four of the Pysklo children from down the street. They were looking more grimy and unkempt than usual —if that was possible. Kathy smiled brightly at Celia and said, "The children's mother has gone to the hospital and they are all alone. I'm trying to find places for them to stay. Mrs. Watkins has taken the baby, and Mrs. Radcliff the two-yearold. I thought that if you could take the eldest two, then I could manage the ones in between." For a moment, Celia could only stand there aghast as she thought of her exquisite spare bedroom with the blue satin spread and tufted pillows. Then 103 February 1968 she said, "I just don't see how I can. My house isn't in shape for little boys. But [ll be glad to do something for them—cook a meal or do some ironing. Maybe there is someone else who can take them?" "Thank you very much," said Kathy. "No, there isn't anyone else in the neighborhood. I've tried them all. Mrs. Jenkins has a headache, and the woman next door has company coming—and so on." As the children began to look distressed, she said quickly, "But, it's quite all right, boys. I can easily take care of you." They walked away and Celia closed her door. She stood rooted there for a minute. She couldn't stand it. She wasn't going to let a newcomer to the neighborhood. Take over for the rest of them. Not if everything in the spare bedroom had to be burned after the children had used it—as maybe it would be. She snatched off the blue satin cover, looked twice at the chairs, and decided to leave them in the room. Then she marched over to the Andrews' house. Kathy was putting out bread and jam on the table. "T've changed my mind," said Geélia: "TI find that I can take two of them, after all. I hope that their mother isn't going to be too long in. The hospital." "IT wouldn't know," answered Kathy. "We may have them for a couple of weeks or so. Anyway, I'll be glad to have you take them.. I was going to make 'up extra beds on the divan in the living room." Celia waited until they had finished eating their bread and jam, then took them home. When Henry arrived from work she softened the surprise by saying brightly, "We have company for a few days. This is Mark, and this is Evan. Their mother is in the hospital, and their father at work, so they are going to stay with us." Henry quickly covered his astonishment and said, "That's fine. We're real glad to have you boys." Later, Celia suggested that he supervise their baths and take them to their bedroom. Then she went in and moved Henry's chair back to the old accustomed place. Let the carpet wear out! It didn't matter, really. WAKENING THOUGHTS Sylvia Neale Northampton Branch, Central British Mission Bright sun of morning Startles my eyelids, Bids me accept beginning of day. Clouds on horizon are tiny and formless, Gold, crimson jewels—entrancing display. Bright sun of the gospel, Startles my senses, Bids me accept what my heart always knew; Clouds on horizon, like troubles are harmless, Diminished in size when truth is in view. 104 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Miss Clarice Kerr, now retired and living in Scottsdale, Arizona, has been presented a 'superior service'' award by the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, in recognition of her contributions to improving the health and welfare of American Indians, through her outstanding performance in nursing service, administration, and staff development. The presentation was made by Dr. Leo J. Gehrig, Assistant Surgeon General at the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. Most recently Miss Kerr was director of nursing at the Indian Hospital, Fort Defiance, Arizona. She has also served in hospitals caring for Gros Ventre, Assiniboine, and Alaskan Indians. Woman executives in the United States who have become millonaires, principally through their own businesses (or co-owned with husbands) are: Mrs. Lynn Stuart, women's apparel; Miss Pat Palmer, real estate; Mrs. Ruth Handler, toy business (creator of Barbie dolls); Mrs. Lynn Pressman, fashion director, toy merchandising, and industrial real estate; Miss Jessie Frankfurt, glamorous maternity dresses, countrywide chain stores, real estate; Miss Jane Trahey, advertising agency, specializing in articles that sell to women. Miss Barbara Thompson, Navajo, was winner of the Fried Bread Contest in the AllIndian Days celebration held in Bluff, Utah, in June 1967. Mrs. Marvin Wallin, Salt Lake City, Utah, is the mother of triplet sons, all of whom have recently returned from missions for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Scott served his mission in New Zealand, Kent in Austria, and Craig in Samoa. All the boys are Eagle Scouts and all hold Duty to God awards. They are presently enrolled in three separate Utah colleges. Nancy Sweet-Escott, born and brought up in Gloucestershire, England, is the only woman steeplechase horse trainer on the major tracks in the United States. She is also a well-known research veterinarian, much in demand. Mrs. Mary Kaltman is chief housekeeper in the White House, Washington D. C. She has seventy assistants who help her to keep the 132 rooms in cleanliness and order. Such household tasks as washing the crystal chandeliers, cleaning the windows, dusting and polishing the furniture, vacuuming the carpets, cooking and serving meals for the presidential family and the many guests, are only a few of the many jobs that must receive prompt and meticulous attention. Keiko Fukuda, a tiny Japanese woman, an official guest at the World Judo Championship contests in Salt Lake City, has taught judo to many American women in the United States. Judo grew out of a religious foundation, she states, and is supposed to give spiritual as well as physical strength and grace. 105 EDITORIAL VOLUME 55 FEBRUARY 1968 NUMBER 2 General Board @ Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor m Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer = Each time the visiting teachers call at a home, they bring a valentine of love. ''To You With Love,"' their visit says. They are following a path worn smooth by the feet of faithful sisters who have walked the path of loving service for nearly one hundred twenty-six years. They walk over sun-baked sandy paths, between lush green growth, through waving palms, over icy trails, through crowded streets; they go by automobile, horseback, scooters, bus, and even by plane, on occasion. All over the world where the gospel light is piercing the darkness of unbelief in the Savior of the world, two messengers, in a spirit of sisterly solicitude, bring their valentine of love once each month throughout the year. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous The young child looks out the window at two women entering the gate. ''Mother,'' she calls excitedly, ''it's the Relief Society visiting teachers.'' The young mother hastens to welcome them into her home. The homebound woman has a special smile for her two faithful visitors who bring to her cheery greetings from her sisters, and a message of spirituality to ponder, during the hours of loneliness and pain. The indifferent sister may chide herself after their departure for her feelings of resentment when she saw them coming, and then there is the sister who doesn't answer the door as she hasn't the time to bother with them. Whatever the welcome, the visiting teachers continue on their assigned rounds in rain, in sun, in heat, in cold. They have been called to the service of the Master. They are loyally exemplifying the words which the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to Relief Society for their grand key words, ''Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' "' Jesus went about doing good. In spite of rebuffs, indifference, unrighteousness, he still trod the path marked out for him by the loving Father. The visiting teachers go about doing good. They go with a prayer in their hearts, and thanksgiving for the service to which they have been called. —M. C. S. Protect Your Whole Family From Heart Disease The American Heart Association gram, there are many things we can do for our families to gain protection Program for regular exercise, and encouraging your child not to smoke by Precept: and example. The home j 108 THE WEDDING GIFT Kathryn E. Franks e Hope Farrel, on a bright October afternoon, hung up the telephone receiver just as Judy, her ten-year-old daughter, blew into the kitchen. She came in after school as usual with a great deal of zest and hunger. Judy dropped her schoolbooks on the table with a thud and turned toward the refrigerator, her hair shining as she twirled as if summer sun were still reflected there. "That was Ruth Webb on the phone," Hope told Judy. "She's moving Carol's wedding shower up to the fifteenth. Works better for most of-the girls." "Oh," exclaimed Judy, her hazel eyes suddenly dismayed. "What is it, dear?' Hope asked. "Something else planned?" "No, but that's so soon. It's just that I haven't decided on a gift for Carol." "Tl help,' Hope _ offered, thinking of the list she had been adding to and crossing off in connection with Carol's wedding. Right now Hope felt that she was playing tit-tat-toe. "We'll go Saturday," she said, "before I start my other errands." "No, thanks, Mom," Judy replied. "This is special. I want to select Carol's gift by myself." 109 February 1968 "You're right, it is special. Not every day your only, older sister gets married." Too late, Hope sensed she had made the wrong remark. Judy had swung around and fled up the stairs. I haven't been aware, Hope reasoned, with so many of the wedding details on my mind, how difficult this is for Judy. Whatever, Hope wondered in distress, is Judy going to do when Carol is married and away from home? How will Judy sleep at night knowing Carol isn't in the bed across from her? I have never, Hope thought proudly, seen two sisters so absolutely fond of each other, and completely devoted to one another. Carol had been a_ pretty, brown-haired, eleven-year-old the year Judy was born. Hope had feared Carol might display jealousy, but instead she had been childishly delighted with' her baby sister. At once, Carol had tended the baby in a manner that had amazed Hope. Understandingly enough, before Judy was a year old she had turned to Carol for her needs. Judy had insisted upon Carol dressing her, and undressing her. It had been Carol who had helped Judy into her pink sleepers and read the nursery rhymes. Sometimes, Hope thought, smiling now thinking about it, she had felt shut out. For instance, it had been Carol's hand Judy reached for when she took her first steps.... Carol that left her at the door the first day of school. 110 Through the years, Hope had marveled how Carol, unselfishly, totally unaware of it, had Judy's interests and welfare in mind. When Judy was three, Carol had insisted that Judy be moved into the room with her. Carol, fourteen then, had voiced definite ideas on how the room should be arranged and decorated. To blend with the rosepink walls and the pink striped curtains, they had _ purchased two white beds, with a night stand to go between. It was on the night stand, later, when Judy was_ seven, that they placed the lamp. The girls had been Christmas shopping in Harland's Department Store, when they first saw the blue and white porcelain based lamp with the childish Dutch designs. The shade was made of crisp white organdy. Loaded down with packages and covered with snow, Carol and Judy had arrived home, excited, determined to take their own money and go back to buy the lamp. Since then, the lamp _ had stood on the night stand between the two beds, a bond between the sisters. When Carol came in after an evening out, more times than not, Judy awakened, snapped on the lamp, sat up in bed, drew her knees up under the covers and listened eagerly while Carol, rolling her hair up in curlers, chatted about the events of the day. Naturally, it was Judy who first saw the engagement ring and heard the announcement. Also, there was a little trick the girls played, like: "Last one to bed turns out the light." These words were called from the shower or the dressing table. With that, the two sisters, Carol, a tall working girl, and Judy, a frisky, ten-year-old, scrambled across the room, pushing and shoving, trying to reach her bed first so that the last one in had to switch off the lamp. Now Judy, Hope realized sadly, was faced with the idea of being alone in her room. Soon Carol would be moved to an apartment of her own. Hope had met the same problem, but with more common sense than sentiment. She tried to concentrate on Carol's happiness, and the blessing that Carol was marrying such a fine young man as Hank. Judy, however, had escaped to her room, faced now with the problem of selecting a gift for her sister. NI: wanting to intrude, but hoping she might help, Hope picked up a freshly ironed blouse and carried it up to Judy's room. Hope tapped on the door, and Judy's_ feeble voice answered 'Come in." As Hope entered, Judy folded two one-dollar bills around a fifty-cent coin and placed them in her blue handkerchief box. "If you haven't the cash for Carol's_ gift," Hope suggested, "ll add what you need for the gift." "No thanks," Judy stated, impossibly independent for her age, "if it's going to be my gift, I'll buy it myself." Hope knew that Judy was planning on earning a few dollars by feeding Mrs. Carlson's poodle while she went to visit The Wedding Gift her son. Now the shower date was set up before Mrs. Carlson's visit, and Judy was in a quandary. Hope wondered if Judy had heard some private remarks between herself and her husband. About. The cost of the wedding, and if that was the reason she was so determined not to take her mother's money. Carol was carrying most of the expense of her wedding dress and the smaller details, but, as parents, they were meeting the other expenses. Or Judy knew, perhaps without hearing, that any expense right now was a burden to her parents, and that was why she felt so determined not to take one penny. Without any doubt, Hope knew for certain what Judy wanted to buy. She and Judy had stopped in the furniture store less than a week ago, when Hope saw Judy holding an early American, copper teakettle. Hope pretended not to hear when Judy asked the price. "Six-fifty," the clerk answered. Hope had winced. Judy, still holding the teakettle, remarked, "Carol likes early American. I know because when we walked by here the other afternoon Carol stopped and looked in the window. She said something about the teakettle but when she saw the price, we walked on without going inside. There is an artificial fireplace in the apartment she and Hank are © going to rent. This would look nice on the white mantle. "It is pretty,' Hope added, "and Carol and Hank won't be buying many decorative pieces at first. I know she'd love it." 111 February 1968 Hope had moved away, looking for the furniture polish, wanting Judy to make her own selection. Apparently she had decided, for Hope heard her ask the clerk to save the teakettle until the twenty-ninth when she would be in to pay for it. Now, hanging Judy's blouse in the closet, Hope said slowly, "Judy, I think you need some help now that Helen has set the date up so soon. Ill lend you the money, and you go down and pick up the gift. You can have it gift-wrapped, then you can pay me back the difference after Mrs. Carlson pays you." Judy leaped from the bed and grabbed her sweater. "IT guess I'll have to," Judy admitted, her face brightening. "T'll walk down now, if you'll lend me four dollars. [ll be back before dinner." Hope hadn't finished peeling the potatoes when she saw Judy coming back, cutting across the front yard, her shoulders sagging, and her face looking more miserable than Hope had ever seen it. When she opened the door she couldn't hold back the tears. "The copper teakettle was sold." She could barely speak above a whisper. She looked so brokenhearted, Hope longed to put her arms around her and comfort her. "Wasn't there another one?" Hope couldn't believe Judy could be right. Certainly there was a mistake. "No," Judy replied, putting Hope's money back on_ the table. "Another clerk didn't know and sold the teakettle only a few days ago." Mai "We'll think of something else," Hope reassured her. "After dinner, we'll think of something." "No," Judy answered, and turned toward the stairs. That evening when Carol came in late from work, she found Judy studying her math, dry-eyed, cheerful as usual. Hope felt astonished that Judy could put on such an act. Carol would never guess by Judy's manners that anything was wrong. I. Ater, in the upstairs hallway putting away clean sheets, Hope heard Judy's voice as she was crawling into bed, saying in a frail voice, "I'm going to miss you, Carol, dreadfully." "I'm going to miss you, too, infant. But, after all, I'm not going to be that far away." Hope stepped into the bedroom to tell her daughters good night just as the two girls reached up together to turn off the night stand lamp. Saturday afternoon, after a busy morning, Hope asked Judy if she might drive her downtown where she could buy another gift for Tuesday night. "Thanks, anyway," Judy informed her mother with her old zest, "but the gift has already been taken care of." Her voice echoed a hint of secrecy, and Hope knew better than to question. What could she have bought, Hope wondered anxiously, with less than three dollars? Could it have been in that big bag she had carried in only this morning? That sack had been large enough to hold a hatbox. Hope received an _ unusual number of telephone calls, had her own dress to alter, and marketing to do the day of the shower. When: it was time to dress, Hope felt she had been circling around on a roller rink all day. Her feet felt so heavy and tired, she wondered if she could possibly get them into her dress shoes, but good, dependable Judy on the living-room sofa, was dressed and waiting with her gift. She looked so fresh and neat in her yellow, brass-buttoned jumper and white blouse, Hope knew how proud Carol would be when she saw Judy. Carol was already at Helen Webb's house, thinking she was only invited to dinner. Everything appeared to be working out fine, except Hope couldn't shake off the concern about Judy's gift. Not that Carol wouldn't love anything Judy selected, but Hope didn't want Judy embarrassed in front of Carol's friends. Finally, with her own gift, an electric skillet Carol wanted and needed, Hope collected her purse and gloves, and signaled to Judy. With a mixture of tiredness, happiness, and anxiety, Hope drove with Judy beside her, through the crisp autumn evening toward Helen Webb's house. Hope would treasure always the startled expression on Carol's face when her friends and she and Judy crowded into Helen's living room. Instantly, Carol had her natural, quick, sparkling smile for everyone, but she couldn't resist in reaching over, to hug Judy and to kiss her mother's cheek. Hope's shoes pinched, and The Wedding Gift she was glad when Helen suggested she take the comfortable, wing-back chair beside the fire. By now the room had erupted with girls' voices, their chatter and laughter. Hope felt greatly touched by the affection Carol's lovely young friends bestowed upon her. And Carol, Hope noticed gladly, responded in a most gracious, spontaneous manner. Tonight, glowing with happiness, she looked not much older than Judy. Ni ot many minutes passed until Helen started some fun games. Hope, trying to concentrate, could not keep' from glancing from Carol 'to Judy. Was Judy all right? At the moment Judy appeared to be enjoying herself, and Hope relaxed somewhat until it was time for Carol to unwrap her gifts. Judy, it seemed to Hope, sat a bit too far forward on her chair, looking, Hope thought, as if she were about ready to jump up for some relay race. In her excitement for Carol, Judy appeared to have forgotten herself entirely. Carol opened her gifts slowly, thanking each girl with such heartfelt words, Hope felt certain the girls were touched and delighted in Carol's_ sincerity. Her friends had lovingly showered her with useful gifts. When Carol reached for Judy's gift, the biggest and most conspicuous, Hope' turned her shoulders away from the fire, knowing that she had never been more tense, not even in a dentist's chair. Oh, dear, Hope thought, wishing the _ flames 113 February 1968 would die down, let it be all right! Judy, her eyes fastened on Carol's hands, sat straight and composed, first crossing, then uncrossing her feet, unaware of anyone else in the room, conscious only of Carol's fingers untying the bow. The two sisters' eyes met before the gift was yet unwrapped, and the instant of endearment that passed between them, though not a word was spoken, brightened the whole room. _ Carol's hands had no more than touched the gift inside, lifting it into view, when she drew in her breath, "Oh, Judy," she began, then her voice broke, leaving her speechless. Her eyes misted as she looked at her younger sister. At once she regained her composure and addressed Judy. "Oh, Judy, our lamp. You gave me our lamp." Hope regained her poise. Indeed, there it was, the familiar night stand lamp, but dressed now in a crisp, new shade. No one in the room would guess what the lamp meant to Carol, or what Judy had really given to her older sister. Not unless they sensed the sisterly affection that passed silently between the two girls. "It's not much," Judy explained huskily. "I thought you might like part of our room to take with you." Part of the room, Hope thought, with emotion, she's giving her part of her heart. Above the crackling flames and the girls' voices, Hope's ears seemed to hear her daughters' voices down through the years. "Last one in bed turns off the light." It did not surprise Hope that Judy had thought of such an idea, but what Hope marveled at, was that she would have the courage to carry the idea through. "Oh, infant," Carol said now to Judy, "every night I reach up to turn off the light, Dll be silently saying goodnight to you." "IT know," Judy said happily, scooting across the room to sit on the floor beside Carol, "that's what I thought." Judy sat crosslegged, close to Carol, folding the ribbons and _ papers as Carol continued to unwrap her gifts. She moved, Hope thought, because she got Carol's message. Carol wanted Judy at her side, to share her joy. Hope smiled, then, her first relaxed smile in several days, for she felt certain now beyond all doubt that Carol would never be very far away from Judy la "Dear Grandma, MOTHER'S GRACIOUS LITTLE GRANDDAUGHTER Iris W. Schow Told she's forgotten to say, ''Thanks,'' She gravely wrote to square it: Thank you for the hat. | hardly ever wear it.'"'.. Ever! 114 REFLECTIONS ON THE GLORY OF FREEDOM Josephine H. Beck I choose freedom: Freedom is the most precious possession of life, next to life itself. —President David O. McKay "Let freedom ring" is a thought which is thrilling to my soul. I have the right and power to choose for myself whether I will be good or bad, happy or sad. My Heavenly Father gave me this blessing of being a free agent for myself. It is a divine privilege with a mighty responsibility. President McKay has said: The gospel of Jesus Christ is the perfect law of freedom. We do not wish to supplant any government, but we wish to have this truth in our homes, in our hearts, and to teach it to our children as the best, most glorious thing in all the world. (Church Section, Deseret News, August 24, 1963.) It is my desire that my children also may know for themselves the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I will always be grateful to my parents for trying to instill this in my life and for their splendid example of righteous living. The Lord told us that there would be wicked and designing men who would seek to rob us of our happiness and well-being by attempting to persuade us to take up habits which would make us slaves. If we value our freedom we would not choose to be slaves, therefore, we must not relax our vigil against the enemies of freedom. Gy y WASTED YEARS Ruth G. Rothe Sometimes we let a fence of deep resentment Build up around our hearts against someone, And then as hate-filled years pass slowly onward, We cannot clearly state just what was done, The words perhaps once innocently spoken We cannot now repeat—even recall; If we had only practiced swift forgiveness There would have been no reason for it all. 115 A/D I THE eat YROCKSTREWN YD ® Mtge, ROAD, The Pel 7 aM » arolyn 1 yeyreht s Susan snapped back to attention at the instructor's words as she heard him begin the assignment. "To involve you more in this period of time, your term paper will be a biography. I want you to get to know how a person who lived in that time period felt, what he thought. I don't want one of those he-was-born-hereand-died-there kind of biographies. The individual may be anyone you choose, famous or not. Here is the catch. Your main source must be something the individual wrote." A chorus of moans arose. "It isn't as hard as you may think. For famous people, there are often published autobiographies, collections of letters, and so forth. For many others, there are journals, diaries, that kind of thing." "Diary," Susan thought. "Great-grandmother Carter." The bell rang, Susan gathered up her books and rushed out. Tammy caught up with her and matched her quick steps. "Sue, what have your parents decided about this fall?" she asked. Susan frowned as the same problem again captured her attention. "Oh, they won't decide. It's up to me." "Whoopee! Then it's all set. We're off to State. Two years at dear, little, City College, but watch out State, here we come." Tammy noticed Susan wasn't joining in her enthusiasm. "Hey, what's wrong? You don't seem very happy for someone who gets to go to State. We are going to State, aren't we?" "T didn't say I could go to State," Susan replied glumly. "I just said my parents were leaving it to me to decide." "That's the same thing, isn't it? You want to go to State. You make the decision. You choose State. Seems pretty simple to me." 116 The Rock—Strewn Road "Well, it isn't, Tammy. I've got to go to biology now. I'll see you tomorrow." Sue left her friend very bewildered. Susan hardly heard a word the biology professor said. Tammy just didn't understand. Of course it was impossible just completely to ignore her parents' wishes. For one thing, they were probably right. She could take any of a wide variety of classes, she would be with other members of the Church, the Brigham Young University campus seemed so beautiful from the brochures, she would get to travel almost halfway across the country, see new places, meet new people, broaden her horizons. That was the trouble—new places, new people. She wouldn't know anyone. The campus was so big she would probably get lost. The same feeling of panic again threatened to overwhelm her. She would have to decide soon. Deadlines for applications were coming nearer. "Tt just isn't fair to make me decide," she thought. "It would be much easier to go to State. Tammy could be my roommate. If I got lost, at least I'd be lost with someone, and not all by myself. I guess I just don't have much pioneer spirit. Wouldn't Great-grandmother Carter be ashamed of me!" "Hi, Mom." Susan said, putting her books on the table. "Mr. Johnston wants us to write a biography of somebody, and we have to use something she wrote. Don't we have a diary that Great-grandmother Carter kept?" "Yes, Susie. It's so old, though, please be very careful." "T will, Mom. I'll start right after dinner." "Susie, have you thought any more about which school? Dad and 1 " "T know, Mom, but I just can't decide. I'll probably be signing up at City College again." "City College is good, or your father wouldn't be teaching there, but we are convinced you need to learn to meet people. You've known almost everyone at City College since you were in the first grade. We'd like you to be around other young people of the Church. That has been one thing I haven't liked about living in the branch. There just aren't any young people for you to be with." "Yes, Mom, but I just can't face the idea of not knowing anyone. If I could just stay here and never have to go anywhere I'd be perfectly happy." Susan hurried through her chores to get to work on her assignment. She was really looking forward to it. She had heard many stories about Emmalou Putney Carter. Susan always pictured her as holding off a band of Indians while holding a baby on her hip. She carefully unwrapped the old volume, and almost reverently opened it. Suddenly she saw a face, the face of a young girl. In one corner of the drawing was the inscription "Emmalou Putney, sixteen years."' Susan had seen several old photographs of a sweet, little old lady with white hair piled high on top of her head,. And very merry eyes. But this was a different person. A serious girl, shy looking, and and timid. Susan began to read. She quickly skimmed the pages until one entry caught her eye. "April 23, 1844. Papa met some gentlemen today and invited them to supper. They called themselves elders and talked about a new Church. They spoke of things in a way that made them seem so natural. It was very strange. Grandfather said he didn't think there was a word of truth in it, but Papa was very impressed. 117 February 1968 '"'May 15, 1844. Today something happened I would never want to happen again. Clara will not speak to me. She has remained silent since breakfast. Papa announced that he is going to be baptized by the elders. Grandfather was very angry. He said that if Mama was alive she would never allow such foolishness. Papa asked Clara and me if we would be baptized. Too. Clara said she would get her hair wet and it would never be dry in time for Mercy Phillips' party. I want to please Papa, but Grandfather said there is not much good being said about the new Church and Papa has just been deceived. ''T did promise Papa I would read The Book of Mormon, and that is what made Clara angry. She wanted me to help her iron her petticoats and dress for the party, and curl her hair. But I did promise Papa. This is the most miserable day of my life. "June 3, 1844. | went to meeting with Papa. They seem like nice people and not at all like what everyone is saving. Clara said it is mortifving to have her own father be a Mormon. Grandfather says they are all lars and thieves and worse. But Papa isn't and those people seemed very nice. The elders who baptized Papa spoke of the authority to act in God's name and when they said they had that authority I had a very peculiar feeling. I just knew they were telling the truth. When I told Papa he was very happy. He wants me to be baptized, but it would upset Clara and Grandfather and there has been trouble. ''June 16, 1844. The situation is getting worse. There has been some talk of violence. Papa wants to go to the Mormon city, Nauvoo. It is only three days' journey and I could come back here and visit. But to leave my home and friends? How can | do that? But how can I let Papa go by himself? I do not have to choose now. Papa could not leave until after harvest, anyway. 'June 29, 1844. A rider came through with terrible news. The Mormon Prophet is dead. No one knows what happened. The elders are going to Nauvoo right away. Papa is going, too. He went to Grandfather and settled evervthing. For Papa's share of the farm, he gets a wagon, team, and supplies, and Clara's needs will be taken care of. She refused to come. I might have, except Grandfather said Papa was risking my neck and that was wicked. To even think Papa was wicked! So I said I would go. But I am so frightened. I must choose quickly what to take. "Clara and I just cannot stand to be parted. She wants me to stay, and I want her to go. But each has to do what she must. I must go with Papa. It is so hard, but Papa says the Lord commands us to do only what it is possible for us to do. I know I must be brave. Papa says it will not be easy, but we will do the best we can." Susan sat staring at the tear-stained page. The words were whirling around in her mind. She knew the main story of Great-grandmother Carter's life, but it had never seemed a real person had done all that. More of an ideal. The very picture of courage, facing all the dangers that came her way. This girl wasn't like that. Mavbe I thought I knew Great-grandmother Carter, Susan thought, but I surely didn't know Emmalou Putney. Susan read on. There was the entry of her baptism, how they had found a small house in Nauvoo. "April 11, 1845. | have met the most wonderful girl. Hannah Carter. She is just my age and a great friend. I feel I have known her all my life. And she is so brave. Yesterday she killed a snake with her hoe. I should 118 The Rock—Strewn Road have died first. She is keeping the garden so her brother Thomas can work on the temple.. "May 24, 1845. The femple is finished. Such a glorious day. There is SO much joy, surely it: js spreading all over the country. Such a beautiful, beautiful] day. 'September 9, 1845. The temple seems to inflame the Mobs againsy Us. It is not safe to be out from the city. Papa Savs not to fear. God wil] profect us if it is we should live. And if we Must give our lives we will be eternally rewarded. I must hold to that. 'November 13, 1845. Papa and Brother Carter almost have everything ready. We Plan to travel together. Two small families are safer together than separate. "There was a letter from Clara. She has new shoes for a Party. She has set her cap for Mercy Phillips' brother and wants to look especially nice. "T need a pair of walking shoes, but there has been so much to buy, | will just have to wait. "February 21, 1846. We have been breserved from Our enemies. The last days in Nauvoo we were Constantly under fear of attack. I wanted to hide under the hed. J Om Sas to be afraid shows our faith is weak, that we do not trust the Lord. But now we are safe. It is cold and many are sick, but the Lord is With us because we are doing his will. I still fee] afraid sometimes, but | get on my knees and I receive strength. We must have that Susan Closed the worn volume. Tears Streamed down her cheeks. What am J crying for? Not for Emmalou Putney. She won her battle, Susan a ICICLES Fay Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Pendant Diamonds are these— Loveliest wedding of Winter and water, in perfect Beauty. "J 119 THE HOT DISH HEART Helen Hinckley Jones » Mama didn't have any French words in her vocabulary, not even the familiar housewifely word "casserole." But she did have both knowledge and wisdom about what she called the "hot dish." Mama had an enamelware pan—blue on the outside and white on the inside—that went into our oven almost every day. Before we baked with gas or electricity, the blue pan often stayed in the oven all day, and in it beans baked slowly in a luxury of molasses, spice, and bits of ham. Another dish that required slow baking was the rice, brown sugar, and raisins that bubbled and grew a creamy beige as Mama turned under, again and again, the brown skin that formed on the top. | Potatoes were another stand-by. Mama sometimes peeled and cubed boiled potatoes that had been cooked in their well-scrubbed "jackets," poured creamy cheese sauce over them, and whisked the blue pan that held this everyday goodness into the oven only long enough to bake a crumbly crust of cracker crumbs, butter, and cheese that topped it. If Mama had all afternoon, she peeled uncooked potatoes and sliced them very thin. Into the blue pan, prepared with real butter, she put a layer of potatoes, then a sprinkling of flour, salt and pepper; potatoes again, again salt, pepper, and flour until the pan was two thirds full. Over this she carefully poured rich milk. Slowly, the potatoes grew tender in the slow oven. By some enchantment not known to me, the milk didn't curdle. Some of it was absorbed by the potatoes and it, in turn, absorbed the flour and the seasonings—delicious. On special occasions, Mama covered the potatoes with loin pork chops and let their succulent goodness permeate to the very bottom of the blue pan in a process which Papa called "gilding the lily." Macaroni and cheese made Mama's slow-baked way, was all right. So was stew of yesterday's pot roast of beef, potatoes, carrots and onions, topped with made-from-scratch sour cream biscuits. But my favorite was veal pie. Early in the morning, or sometimes even the night before, Mama boiled veal shanks or shoulder. She sometimes allowed me to help her to pick the meat from the bone, though I often ate more than I put in the bowl. To the bite-sized pieces of meat, she added what she called "milk gravy." Carefully, she lined the sides of the blue pan with a paper-thin strip of crust, then she added the meat and the gravy, and topped the whole thing with a circle of crust. In the crust she cut two long slits that looked to us like willows. They must have been meant for willows, because along 121 _-- Nd =, Ss each side of the aN \inlade leaf-like perforatioris, and the edge she fluted to the sideydining with perfect stallops. Was there ever anything as beautiful ds Mama's deep-dish véal pie? When something was it aking in the blue pan, I would return to the kitchen, again and again, for several deep sniffs between practicing Hanon on the piano and reading my library book. Finally, when I could tolerate the anticipation no longer, I would hang around the kitchen complaining, "But, Mama, it's so long until dinner!" Sometimes, Mama would put me to setting the table, but other times she would take the blue pan from the oven and put it neatly in the center of a dazzling washed and boiled dish towel. As she reached for the corners of the towel to tie it into a carrying basket my heart would turn over with the pain of loss. Mama had made this beautiful food for some other family! Sometimes, it went to a house where a new family was moving in, to welcome strangers into the brotherhood (sisterhood, or youngsterhood) of our pleasant block. Sometimes, it went to a family moving out who didn't have time to cook in the midst of packing and the thorough house cleaning that used to go with leaving a rented house. Sometimes, it went to a friend who had unexpected house guests and could use the extra food, or to one who was ill and couldn't get around to go to the store or to cook. We didn't often send store-bought flowers to funerals, but the blue pan was always early, often the first food to arrive at any home from which a family member had departed. I was often entrusted with the delivery. Half rebelliously, I would carry the dish-towel basket like a suitcase, banging it for a while against one leg, then for a time against the other. If the delivery had interrupted some specially important activity like playing "onesies and twosies" with my friend Virginia, I would kick a rock in front of me on purpose to wear out my shoes and wonder what would happen if the blue pan got lost and could never get home. It never did get lost. Everybody knew the Hinckley's blue pan. One day, an unusual family came into our town and settled, with the permission of the town or county (I never did know which), into a shabby, vacant house. The house had been purchased, I think, because it stood on land needed for an extension of the cemetery, and it had never been demolished. The mother went right to bed and added another baby to the family. The father, the first unemployed man I had ever seen, sat in the kitchen. He didn't read, 122 The Home—Inside and Out he didn't make willow whistles for his boys or doll furniture for his girls, he just sat. Nearly every day Mama sent a hot dish, by me, to this family. I knew the rules. The blue pan went to homes where the mother was ill and couldn't get around to go to the store or to cook. But that good-for-nothing man sitting in the kitchen and rising only to spoon the beautiful food into an ugly, soiled soup tureen and to give me back the unwashed pan without even a thank you, I could not tolerate. One morning when Mama tied my favorite veal pie into a dish towel basket, I exploded into tears and angry words. '""Why don't we eat this ourselves?" I demanded. "Just our family?" "Why, dear,' Mama said, "if we didn't-carry food to this family, they would go hungry. You wouldn't want all of those little people to be hungry, would you?" "Well, I'm hungry," I insisted. "All morning I've been thinking about this pie. And that good-for-nothing father. " I loved this long descriptive word I had heard others use. Papa, hearing my angry voice, came into the kitchen. He gave me his handkerchief to dry my eyes, then he sat down and stood me facing him. He spoke slowly. "Honey, I want you to remember this. Every minute of every day there is a baby born who will never in his life be able to really take care of himself. Even when he grows up to be a man he'll have to depend upon others. Jesus said, 'For ye have the poor always with you.' " "But Papa," I protested, feeling the tears coming again, "he's not blind. He has two legs and two arms, and." Papa offered the handkerchief again. "There's something lacking in some people, and you can't see from the outside that this important thing is missing; but still the something that isn't there is more necessary than eyes, or legs or arms. And I think that if a man is born without it, he can't develop it any more than he could grow a second arm if he had been born with only one." I stood undecided about what argument to use next to save that pie for our family. It would only be broken and ruined when it was spooned into the cracked soup tureen. Papa got up and put the blue pan, tied into the dish towel, in my hand. "Every day we can thank God that we were born with this special something inside us. We can give instead of needing to accept." "Papa," I began, still puzzled, "what is this thing?" "No one has a name for it," Papa said. "In my own mind I call it drive." "Run along, dear,' Mama urged me. "I don't want the pie to get cold." I know all about casseroles—family casseroles, party casseroles, church dinner casseroles. Being a housewife on a budget, I have perfected half a hundred. But every time I make a donation to anyone, I remember the blue pan and the love and good feeling that Mama baked into every hot dish. 123 - p ~~ _ ke we: er —— Gn age POLL EK Ney ZO LEE POPS Mos EE PD BE MLONE 208 Bier MOBO LNB ees Ba stem MANY TALENTS—MANY FRIENDS Mabel Varley Christensen, San Luis Stake, Sanford, Colorado, has a multitude of talents and hobbies. During one Christmas season she made 150 pounds of candy for friends and relatives. She raises African violets, creates her own designs for beautiful pieced and appliquéd quilts. Crocheting, embroidering, decorative pillows, and aprons are products of her skillful hands. She is an expert seamstress and for many years did custom sewing, drafting and cutting her own patterns for dresses, coats, and suits. She has made over 1500 aprons. She has always found time for Church activity, and has held ward and stake positions in all auxiliaries of the Church. For more than forty years she has served as a visiting teacher. Sister Christensen has brought much happiness to her family, consisting of her husband of fifty-two years, five sons, twenty-two grandchildren, and fourteen greatgrandchildren. Much of her time is taken up presently with genealogy work, which she lists among her greatest accomplishments. 124 Aunt Minerva's Inspiration Dough Minerva P. Everett 2 c. Scalded milk 1 c. Warm water 6 tbsp. Butter or margarine 1 tsp. Salt 2 packages dry or fresh yeast 3 eggs beaten 1 tsp. Sugar: 8 c. White flour Scald the milk and add shortening while the milk is still hot. Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water and add to the milk mixture when it is lukewarm. Add salt and eggs and mix well. Place in mixing bowl and add four cups of flour, mixing well. Allow to rise about two hours. Knead in the other 4 cups of flour. Let rise until double in bulk. Roll the dough and cut into biscuits. Dip each biscuit in melted shortening and fold over as in making Parker House rolls. Let rise until very light (about one hour). Bake at 350° for about twenty to twenty-five minutes, depending upon the size of the biscuits. Cinnamon rolls may be made from this recipe by rolling out part or all of the dough as desired. Spread the dough with shortening and sprinkle with cinnamon in desired amounts. Then add seedless raisins which have been boiled for five minutes then drained. Roll the dough like a jelly roll and cut off the circles one or two inches thick. Dip in melted shortening in pan and turn over. Allow to rise until very light. Bake at 350° until brown (twenty to twenty-five minutes). PIONEER RECIPES Ruth Smith Are you becoming tired of the same old treats for parties or family nights? Try these old, old recipes for something new and delicious. Pioneer Wheat Place a cup of clean, dry wheat in a pre-heated (medium heat) heavy pan, containing just enough vegetable oil to cover the bottom. Stir about 5-10 minutes, until kernels are popped (they will pop without Stirring, but scorch easily and taste burnt). Sprinkle with popcorn salt, stir, and spread out on a paper towel to cool. Keep small children's hands away until it does cool, as it can blister an overeager hand. Golden Parched Corn Dried kernels of sweet corn can be cooked the same way. They may take a trifle longer to pop, however. Note. For those interested in trying these recipes, wheat and corn can usually be purchased from farmers, food stores, flour and feed mills, or health food stores. 125 OLD GOLDIE Asel B. Brodt ® Many stories could be told about a large, ornate, goldframed mirror that for seventy years graced the wall of a little adobe house in a small town at the foot of a mountain. During those years this mirror hung in the. Parlor between the kitchen door and the north window, almost straight across the room from the front door. It was the first thing noticed by anyone entering the room. The little house was new. There were only two children, when the mirror came as an anniversary present to the young wife. Through the years, 126 ten more children were born to this pioneer couple. As. The family grew in number and in size, there was never time nor money enough to add additional, muchneeded rooms to the house. Here the children grew up, and the mirror looked down on their sorrows and their joys and became affectionately known as "Old Goldie." She reigned like a queen in the household. To Old Goldie was carried each baby, to be shown for the first time, with his little round face and bright, inquiring eyes. Before Old Goldie, all the Christmas and Fourth of July dresses of six growing girls were fitted and admired. Six boys learned to part their hair and to tie their ties and to shave as Old Goldie flashed back downy chins and changing faces. Old Goldie patiently heard all the prepared speeches and memorized recitations directed at her, as the young people practiced for desired effects of voice and gestures to be used for Church and school programs. And she watched the courting and falling in love of those same young people, and even some of their wedding receptions. The family parlor became the social center of the town, and Old Goldie could have told of the cultural growth of both the town and its people. Fine plays and light operas were learned and rehearsed in her presence. Wedding and graduation dresses were fitted before Old Goldie, and she reflected back a radiant happiness, as the wearer turned away to face a new life. Old Goldie couldn't speak, but she gave to each an_ honest, direct answer when he stood before her for self-analysis. There were times when selfish, angry defiance was hurled into her face. But she hung quietly, looking at the irate speaker with his own eyes until the storm was spent, and the eyes, first, stared at what she silently showed them, then dropped. Unable to face his own inner reflections, each child would turn and walk away to seek solitude and meditate on Old Goldie's sermon. Yes, Old Goldie watched seventy years of growth and The Home—Inside and Out many changes come to this family and to the town. Now, the one to whom she had been given as a gift so many years ago, lay in her casket within an arm's length of her beloved old mirror. The children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren came, by the score, to bid farewell to Grandma, and to visit the old house for the last time. Old Goldie seemed to hang desolate and untouched by the crowd, as she looked down upon her dear mistress. Would all the stories locked in her memories ever be released and told? She appeared dull and tired and seemed to say, "Dear old friend, we have had a long, eventful life together. Now you will be laid to rest, and this old house will be torn down, but what will become of me?" Then a man's voice was heard to say, "No, John; true, I am the oldest, but my family are all married and gone. You have a big family of growing children at home yet. So you take Old Goldie home with you to help you to rear those children right." It might have been the afternoon sun slanting across the room that made Old Goldie look so bright and alive again. I" FOR EXAMPLE Kathryn Kay regird myself, with faith restrengthening — what's life itself except continued trying? For instance, look at winter.. " What else is there to do except stop crying,. Look at spring! 127 DOUBLE-DUTY APRON Shirley Thulin A new apron has been designed, and it is a dandy! It does double duty and is so versatile you will find it a great bazaar item. This apron is practical, of floral cotton on one side, with a big serviceable pocket. It is just right for the cooking chores. Then, when the food is all on the table and the family or company are seated, quick as a wink turn the apron about, and you have a fancy apron, pretty while serving. The fancy side is made of organdy or nylon which has no right or wrong side to it. It should be sheer enough to show the flowers of the other fabric through. A dainty pocket edged in lace completes the fanciness, and no one will realize you still have the same apron on! TO MAKE Using your favorite little front apron pattern, cut one complete pattern of the bright floral cotton. This fabric should have no wrong or right side, or at least the flowers should be fairly bright on the wrong side. If your pattern does not have a good-sized pocket, then cut a pocket pattern out of paper first. Now sew the pocket on, but not the ties or the band. Cut the organdy apron, but there is no need to cut another band or another set of ties. Cut a daintier pocket and sew lace or eyelet around it. Stitch it to the organdy apron front. Now, placing the sheer fabric on top of the right side of the floral fabric, machine stitch the two aprons together all around the apron, leaving it open across the top. Trim the seams to % inch and turn right side out and press. Now sew the band and the ties on as you would for any apron. FANCY 128 Chapter 6 Janet W. Breeze - Synopsis: Nancy Jackson, with two children, accompanies her husband Grant on a teaching assignment to the Island of Truk. After a brief stopover on Guam, the family arrives on. Truk, where a quonset hut becomes their home. However, Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go back to Guam for the arrival of expected twins. A letter comes from the Mortensens, their friends who live on Saipan, saying that the Jackson family will be welcome at their home, and that a teacher will exchange teaching assignments with Grant. Upon their arrival, a native maid, Soledad, takes charge of the children. =» At the conclusion of another six A. M. Feeding, Nancy held one of the twins, and Grant held the other. — "Do you still think they look like me?" he asked. "T'mafraid so, Nancy laughed. "Oh, well—what I really mean is—it's just about more than Amy and I can stand to be surrounded by so many handsome men all the time!" "They are the best-looking 33 Saipanese you ve ever seen, aren't they?" "Well—they're the blondest! Which is more than most of the Saipanese can stand! Every time I go out to the hospital for "baby check," people come closer and closer, until I have practically a whole crowd sitting on my lap! And then the pinching starts. The first time it happened with Skipper, I thought the clerk in the grocery store was. Being 129 February 1968 mean, but out at the hospital, people are constantly coming up and making little cheek and elbow pinches on the children. I don't know if it's the different coloring or their chubbiness that makes them so irresistibly pinchable. Come to think of it, though, I haven't seen Soledad do it to Skipper any more since he bit her." "That must have gone over big." "Really big. Oh, Grant, I just don't know what I'm going to do. Soledad means so well, but sometimes I feel like a third thumb around here—like the day I came home from the _ hospital, and she took the babies away from me. Why, I could have dismissed her right then." "But you didn't—and you wouldn't. Besides, you weren't in a very good frame of mind that day, anyway." "So would you like to exist on nothing but rice three times a day for two solid days?" Grant put the baby he had been holding down inside the playpen on its stomach and then twisted open the window louvers to let in more air. "Let's not exaggerate, honey. You have canned beef stew for dinner. And you were only in that hospital for five meals—not Six." Nancy placed her twin beside Grant's in the playpen. "It really is fun. Having one apiece this time, isn't it?" she asked. "And don't count too much on Soledad." "Why?" Nancy broke three eggs into the frying pan and then began setting the table for breakfast. 130 "Well, in the first place, she is becoming more and more unreliable. I never dreamed a calendar had so many holidays! And in the second place, when she is here, I have about had all I can stand of being second place." "But I thought she had really been a help to you," Grant said. "Well, she has. But she does so much-sometimes that I sort of walk around half asleep—just because I'm bored. Now that the twins are sleeping all night, I just wish I knew of a gracious way out, without hurting Francine's feelings, for having hired Soledad in the first place." "But you used to say if we ever had money, the first thing you'd do would be to hire a housekeeper. Now you have one, and you're still not happy." "It's just that I feel like I'm drifting away from you and the children by not doing more for you. I couldn't care less what any of you wear now that I don't have the job of washing and ironing. Well, it's too hard to explain. I guess I've just been getting too dependent on her lately. When she doesn't show up in the morning, I just about turn inside out at the thoughts of having to clean up the breakfast dishes and make the beds. And I don't like feeling that way! That's lazy—and sinful!" Grant laughed at her and painted his eggs with catsup. "T guess you're right," he said. "You never were happy unless you were going a hundred miles an hour. So what are you going to do about it?" "T don't know. But hurry up. You're going to be late." "Listen," he said, "see if you can get Soledad to stay with the children after school. I want you to go to Lake Susupe again with me. As Grant drove away, a jeep came rattling up the hill. When it clunked to a halt outside her door, Nancy heard two familiar voices. "Hunggan!" "Ahi!" "Hunggan! Hunggan!"' "Ahi! Ahi! Ahi!" Finally, Soledad burst through the door and threw herself down on a kitchen chair with one great disgusted thud. "What's the matter now, Soledad?" Nancy asked. "I wish we could separate!"' she said. | "Whatever for?" "We don't understand each other." "Like how?" "I tell him, 'do dis? And him say 'do it yourself!" Nancy chuckled. "Excuse me," she said. "But it sounds to me as if he understands you pretty well. What was it you were shouting to each other?" "T tell him yes. Him tell me "Soledad, I hate to tell you this, but your matriarchal society is coming to an end." "What that?" "Times are changing. Your men have been going to school long enough now that they're beginning to see how other people live. And Nana is no longer the boss." "You not boss here?" "No. Latter-day Saint women do not boss their husbands. We call ourselves companions. That no Throw Down the Gauntlet means we both try to be helpful to each other, but the man still remains the head of the house." "You like that?" "T love it. It's a good feeling to have someone you can depend on to tell you what he thinks is the right thing to do." Now Nancy felt she had caught the moment she was hoping for. "Soledad, do you really have to work?" she asked. "I mean— your husband works. Doesn't he make enough to buy your rice?" "Sure!" "Then why work?" "T don't like to stay home!" "Why?" "Tt not pretty like here." "But couldn't you make it pretty?" "fT don't know. I never try." "Don't you think that could have something to do with the reason you and your husband fight all the time?" Soledad gave the traditional Saipanese blink of the _ eyes, which interpreted means, "Who knows?" "Frankly," now Nancy was getting around to what she really wanted to say, "I feel my husband would be happier if I were to do more for him. What I mean, is, why don't you try staying home part of the time and making it a place your husband will want to come home to?" "You think maybe that work?" "I'm sure of it, Soledad, I'm sure of it!" "Maybe I try. You don't get new maid—I work part time." "Okay." "T stay today—late. Work." Finish 131 February 1968 "Fine, Mr. Jackson wants me to go 'boondocking' when he gets home. Will you stay with the children?" "Hundert per cent, Missus!" "Si Yuus Maase, Soledad." Then Nancy repeated herself in English. "Thank you." WWhien Nancy and Grant had first entered Trust Territory, it had been the rainy season. Now they were in the middle of the dry season. Many of the tangantangan plants had dropped their foliage, and the penetrating odor of smoke polluted the fresh Pacific air as one "boonie" fire after another broke out across the island. "This really is the only time of year to do this," Grant said to Nancy, as they walked the shores of Lake Susupe. "During the rainy season, there's more water in the lake—and it's harder to get in here through. The 'boonles." "What does it matter how much water there is in the lake when it has no bottom, anyway?" "Oh, that's just a _ native superstition, that and the alligators. No American has ever seen an alligator on Saipan. But this lake is supposed to be full of them. Just folklore. The only threat here is this bog. Probably somewhere in the dim, dark past, somebody was trapped in the quicksand, and the whole lake took on an aura of suspicion. Anyway, I want to measure the depth of the quicksand just out of curiosity. Then I think Ill come back Saturday morning and collect some plant specimens. Here, hold the other end of this pole." 132 "Oh, by the way," Nancy said, "we have a new maid." "Oh?" "Yes! Me." "Now, how are you going to get your book researched if you spend all your time cleaning house?" "T've about given up on that," she said. "There have been so many cultures influencing these people for the past hundred years, I'm beginning to think there is no such thing as a native dance. The Saipanese do a great polka they picked up from the German occupation. And you saw the Palauans stop right in the middle of swinging their grass skirts and mark time, 'Hot, do, tree, far!' They would make much better soldiers than dancers." As they. Slowly worked their way around the swampy shore of the lake, the sun was extinguished by the sea_ before they realized their probing of the quicksand was approaching an end. "We'd better get back," Grant said. "There isn't enough daylight left to go on around. It would be too dangerous not to be able to see where we were stepping.". Nancy turned and followed him in retracing their steps, taking care not to walk near the tiny, round pieces of wet quartz. "You know," she said, "I think I'm going to miss Soledad." Grant stopped suddenly and held his arm out to prevent Nancy from passing him. "Shhh, listen," he said. As they stopped talking, both of them could hear a sound like popcorn popping. "IT thought I could smell smoke a little stronger," Grant said. "The wind must be blowing a boonie fire this way." "Don't you think we can make it back to the car?" Now the smoke was becoming more evident and flaky black ashes began drifting about them. "No, I don't," he said, 'and we can't go in the other direction either. There's only one way "Swim? In a bottomless lake? With alligators?" "T'll tie up a little raft for our things, Nancy. You take your shoes and stockings off." Nancy removed her footwear as she was told. "Looks like a_ picnic," she whispered. Then she stared at the darkening water, and her armor dropped with a thud. Back to the car, and that's across the lake." (To be cantinued) Zz MY GLASSES *y Lucy Woolley Jones | wonder why sight ts not made to last As long as the rest of this frame, That glasses we need in order to read To me seems a pitiful shame! | lay them down here and | look for them there, And the minutes slip by and | bluster, ''Now where are those needful, but false, pesky orbs?'' | really am all in a fluster! | must bake a cake for our big ward bazaar And it's late and | can't find my glasses! Now what does that recipe say? I'm not sure; Could be sugar or spice or molasses? Glory be! If | didn't need glasses! 133 ieee row THE FIELD Relief Society Activities % teve ot GOGVIC Great Falls Stake (Montana), Conrad Branch Relief Society Style Show June 10, 1967 Second row, seventh from left: Lorine W. Yeager, President, Conrad Branch Relief Society; eighth from left, Alice S. Denning, First Counselor. Third row, seventh from left: Lorraine M. Den Boer, chairman, style show committee.. Glenna MacDonald, President, Great Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Conrad Branch held a very successful musical program and style show. The program emphasized sewing for the family. "This accomplishment made mothers realize just what wonderful things can be done for the family with just a little effort. "The sisters were presented with a pin-cushion corsage made in the shape of a spring bonnet. Light refreshments were served to a very appreciative audience." 134 Ail material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966; page 50. Beaver Stake (Utah), Greenville Ward Relief Society, Small But Active Standing, left to right: Margaret W. Barton, President, Greenville Ward Relief Society; Afton S. Kesler, First Counselor; Mary Ann M. Williams, Second Counselor; Maxine D. Barton, Secretary-Treasurer; Sofia G. Yardley, social relations leader; Nell B. Blackett, cultural refinement leader. Insert: Lillian M. Williams, Secretary-Treasurer, Beaver Stake Relief Society, former president Greenville Ward Relief Society. Seated, left to right: Donna C. Morris; Bessie F. Edwards, visiting teacher message leader; Nettie C. Fordham, Magazine representative; Loretta Thompson; Alice M. Burton; Ann W. Blackner. Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We are extremely proud of this little ward whose total membership is only seventy-nine, and whose Relief Society has seventeen members. They have made a fine reputation for Relief Society activity, and their quilts are among the best ever made. "The quilt in the picture is one example of the many satin and tricot quilts they have made. There is a special spirit of devotion and dedication among these fine sisters.' 135 February 1968 Oquirrh East Stake (Utah) Sponsors Clothing Exchange and Remodeling School August 21-25, 1967 Oquirrh East Stake Relief Society Officers, standing left to right: Jean Gourley, Counselor; Evelyn Kemp, Secretary-Treasurer; Jean Pixton, Counselor. Seated: Evalyn Olsen, President. Sister Olsen reports: ''About sixty women participated in our clothing exchange and remodeling school, which proved to be very successful. 'Approximately 700 articles were remodeled or exchanged. Many useful ideas were available to aid sisters in alterations and making over articles of clothing. Women's coats were converted into children's coats, women's dresses into girls' dresses or blouses, or boys' shirts. "This project was of great help to many of the families affected by the copper strike in our area. A great deal of advance publicity through the local newspaper and distribution of handbills enabled us to reach more people. "It was indeed a choice experience for us, and we appreciate so much the help - that the ward presidents gave in planning and carrying out the event." North Carolina Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference May 21, 1967 Front row, seventh to ninth from left: Madolyn Mackey, director; DeAnn Westover, accompanist; Katherine Bailey, President, North Carolina Stake Relief Society. Sister Bailey reports: ''The North Carolina Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers presented the music for stake conference, held in Wilmington, North Carolina. About sixty Singing Mothers participated, representing the entire stake made up of seven wards and six branches. Many of the sisters had to travel as much as 250 miles round trip to participate. The sisters were most diligent in giving of their time and energy to practice. They seem to find great pleasure in singing together, and have sung for stake conferences annually since the organization of the stake in 1961. All executive officers and two members of the stake board sang with the chorus. We were all so appreciative of the opportunity to lift our voices in praise to our Heavenly Father.' Hawaii Mission Relief Society Convention September 1-3, 1967 Imogene R. Woodbury, Supervisor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The warmth of sisterhood and a wonderful spirit filled the hearts of members of the Hawaii Mission as they met on the garden island, Kauai. Meetings consisted of educational, homemaking, and executive sessions, under the direction of Chiyo Meyers, Mission Relief Society President, her counselors Ethel Young and Ruth Kondo; and Secretary Pearl Mahi. "Lesson demonstrations were presented by each district, along with recipes and handicraft skills. A convention brochure was given to each sister attending the convention. The brochure inciuded a program of meetings, directions for making handtcraft articles, household hints, and recipes. "On display in the homemaking department were samples and crafts representing the various activities of the twenty-two branches and four districts of the mission. Outstanding were the beautiful 'kapas,' or Hawaiian quilts which are unique for their beautiful, appliquéd designs. '"'Kaual Relief Society sisters were praised for their splendid job of hostessing the convention. They arranged for accommodations, met planes, provided transportation and meals, and planned a delicious luau to which each district contributed a part of the entertainment. "It was indeed a spiritual, enjoyable, and worthwhile time for the sisters who attended." 136 om Cd ar A LO RY f 1 e'° 7 ' rt Pe Ww ' ~~.: Vi ' #5 EMA' MMe 6 y Pa nie ae EN, x _— Ae sy oS ae pA as ee 137 February 1968 Norfolk Stake (Virginia) Singing Mothers Present Concert May 6, 1967 Members of the stake board, front row seated, sixth from left, Robina Woodgate, visiting teacher leader; first row standing, thirteenth from left, Mildred Cramer, social relations leader; fourteenth, Elizabeth Ray Jackson, cultural refinement; second row seated, sixth from left, Ann Thonlinson, spiritual living leader; back row, eighth from left, Lorna McPherson, President; sixteenth from left, Nathalia Wettstein, Homemaking Counselor. Standing, front row behind organ, left to right: Dawn Killen, guest organist; Glenona Farnsworth, guest conductor, who trained and conducted the group; Charleen Ogden, stake board organist and concert accompanist; Gladys Skinner, President, Norfolk Second Ward Relief Society and narrator for the concert. Sister McPherson reports: ''After seven months of planning and practice, the first concert of the Norfolk Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers was presented in the stake house in Norfolk, Virginia. "The theme for the evening was With a Song in My Heart'—a tribute to mothers and their far-reaching influence. There were sixty sisters in the chorus, representing five Relief Societies. The five wards are so located that much travel was required for practice and performance. "At the close of the concert, refreshments were served to the group of 400, many of whom were nonmembers who expressed their appreciation for the outstanding performance." Tooele Stake (Utah), Tooele First Ward Honors Visiting Teachers July 11, 1967 Shirley Wright, President, Tooele First Ward Relief Society, presents Anna Gillespie with a corsage for her outstanding service as a visiting teacher. Alice Harrison, President, Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The presidency of the Tooele First Ward Relief Society were hostesses at a luncheon honoring the visiting teachers of the ward. "Special recognition was given to Sister Anna Gillespie for her outstanding record as a visiting teacher. She has served for twenty-six years, and during that time has never missed a month in making her visits. She has served in the other auxiliaries of the ward as well as Relief Society, and is an inspiration to all who know her."' Parleys Stake (Utah), Parleys Sixth Ward Presents Opening Social September 20, 1967 Parleys Sixth Ward Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Betty Henderson, First Counselor; Lucille Taylor, President; Esther Smart, Second Counselor; Millie Barnes, Secretary. Standing, left to right: Aaron Hatch; Rhea Allen, accompanist; Judith Marsh; Olive Roberts; Laraine Ferguson; Elizabeth Platt; Patti Hatch; Melba Croft; Dorothy Bench; Gertrude Garff; Afton Miller; Connie Manwill. Mary B. Riley, President, Parleys Stake Relief Society, reports: ''For an opening social, Parleys Sixth Ward presented a musical skit written by Helen C. White, consisting of music from 'My Fair Lady,' to introduce the officers and teachers. Dorothy Bench, as Eliza, sang 'Show Me,' and was shown just how Relief Society could change her life. Each class leader showed how her program could enrich the life of Eliza. In the end, Eliza was a new person."' 138 » 4 |] < a February 1968 » Mt. Olympus Stake (Utah), East Milcreek Fifth Ward Bazaar ''The Country Village"' October 1967 Left to right: Faun Tavoian, President, East Millcreek Fifth Ward Relief Society; Dorothy Leitheiser, Second Counselor; Jewell Doxey; Lucille Skanchy; Joyce Duce, Secretary-Treasurer; Frances Fritsch, First Counselor; Eileen Parker. Jelaire Simpson, President, Mount Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The East Millcreek Fifth Ward Bazaar, 'The Country Village,' was a huge success. The cultural hall was turned into a country village street with shops on either side. At the end of the hall, the village picnic square featured old-fashioned stew, piping hot scones, and many other delicious foods. Red checked tablecloths adorned the round tables, and nearby was the Shoo-fly Bake Shop, with an aroma of home-baked goods fresh from the oven, and Kelby's Ice Cream Parlor, boasting freshly cranked, homemade ice cream cones. "Old-fashioned individual stores such as Higbee's Handmades, featuring beautiful, handmade clothing for children; Bigler's Baby Stores; 'Oh Promise Me' Bridal Shop; Kringles Kristmas Shop; Crabtree Drugstore; and Ye Old Curiosity Shoppe were arrayed with lovely handmade articles. The articles were of such variety and quality that the Bazaar was virtually a sell-out." Sydney South Stake (Australia) Relief Society Officers September 14, 1967 Sydney South Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Joan McCoy, First Counselor; Mavis Draper, President; Delle Hunt, Second Counselor; Betty Ireland, SecretaryTreasurer. Standing, left to right: June Fulthorp, chorister; Myrtle Hugo, organist; Ruth Pepper, visiting teacher message leader; Nita Ehmann, social relations class leader; Marjorie Newton, cultural refinement class leader; Eva Hennant, spiritual living class leader; Mary Proctor, Magazine representative.; Mavis Draper, President, Sydney South Stake Relief Society reports: ''These sisters are very happy in their callings and their desire is to help our stake grow in Relief Society activities and appreciation. They are dedicated and devoted to the gospel and work very hard." Murray Stake (Utah), Murray Fifteenth Ward Bazaar, ''A World's Fair "' August 17, 1967 Left to right, in ''Picasso's Pastry'' bake sale booth, representing Italy: Charlene P. Singleton, homemaking leader; Nida Kitchens; Karen Aubrey. Shirley H. Horton, President, Murray Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Murray Fifteenth Ward held a well-planned and well-organized bazaar with the theme 'A World's Fair.' Booths representing eleven countries were used. Those who attended the booths wore costumes depicting the country. 'Because of the time and effort required to make a bazaar successful, these sisters did as much as possible beforehand. The committees had been organized immediately following the previous year's bazaar. Teenagers set up a nursery to care the for young children during the preparations. On the night of the bazaar everyone was relaxed and able to enjoy it thoroughly. This contributed greatly to its success. 'Games at the bazaar to entertain the many children were themed around an African Safari, and featured the Hippo Fish Pond, King Kong Dart Game, and the Elephant Peanut Toss, among others."' 140 1 4 1 BI ry GLERS ~~) = ont v © ~J = e -= SPIRITUAL LIVING— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 88—The Church and Its Purposes Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 115) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman examines herself to see if the purposes of the gospel are fulfilled in her life that her light may be a standard to her family and associates. INTRODUCTION When the Holy Priesthood was restored in 'the last days, the organization of the true Church upon the earth was effected, on April 6, 1830. One of the confirmatory evidences of the Lord's instituting his Church, in 1830, is its name. Despite the fact that hundreds of "Christian" churches were organized before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, yet that Church is the only one which carries the full name of the 142 Founder of the Christian religion. THE NAME OF THE CHURCH The word of the Lord, as given in Section 115 of the Doctrine and Covenants, made known thename by which his Church would be known from that time forth: And also unto my faithful servants who are of the high council of my church in Zion, for thus it shall be called, and unto all the elders and people of my Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, scattered abroad in all the world; For thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. (verses 3-4.) While ministering among the Nephites, the resurrected Savior gave the most complete information concerning the reason for his Church being named for him. His disciples asked him what name should be given to the Church which he was organizing among them. The Lord reminded them that they should take upon themselves his name and those who remained faithful to the end would be saved. Then this message was given to them: Therefore, whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name; therefore ye shall call the church in my name; and ye shall call upon the Father in my name that he will bless the church for my sake. And how be it my church save it be called in my name? For if a church be called in Moses' name then it be Moses' church; or if it be called in the name of a man then it be the church of a man; but if it be called in my name then it is my church, if it so be that they are built upon my gospel. (3 Nephi 27:7-8.) LATTER-DAY SAINTS The Savior then promised his disciples that since it was his Church, if they prayed for the Church in his name, the Father would hear them. (3 Nephi 27: 9-12.), | Appended to the title, The Church of Jesus Christ, is the important name Latter-day Saints. Because this Church was organized in the last days, it carries this name. As Elder James E. Talmage points out, the word "Saint" has a very special mean- | ing in this title. The word means "holy" when used as an adjective, but as a noun it means "a holy one." Therefore, members of this Lesson Department Church profess to be holy ones. This definition does not mean that the member of the Church is without blemish or blame, but it does mean, as one definition suggests, that "holy" applies to exclusive service in the cause of God. (Conference Report, April 1922, page 72.) As the saints are set apart from the world by a covenant of baptism, so they are a chosen generation, a holy nation, and a peculiar people, upon whom rests the responsibility of living in accordance with gospel truths. (1 Peter 2:9.) Theirs is the responsibility to learn to live in unity, to be of "one accord, of one mind." (Ph. 2:2.) Latter-day Saints are not peculiar because of dress, looks, or other characteristics, but, rather, due to their religious beliefs and practices based upon those beliefs. Elder John A, Widtsoe once pointed out the differences which make this people peculiar as follows: (1) the belief that the Church was founded on direct revelation from God; (2) the Church is the only true Church upon the earth possessing the Holy Priesthood; (3) the body of doctrine and beliefs constitutes a fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ; (4) the truth that gospel principles must be applied in one's life; (5) the members of the Church have the courage to live its teachings. (Evidences and Reconciliations, pp. 41-45.) THE GOSPEL AND THE CHURCH In the scriptures the words "gospel" and "Church" are syn- 'onymous as to their purpose. 143 February 1968 The gospel consists of principles and ordinances by which salvation may come to the believer. The Church, on the other hand, is the organization of these believers. For all intent and purposes when one speaks of the gospel as the means of salvation, he might also say that the Church is the means by which believers in the gospel receive salvation. Without the gospel there would be no Church, and without the Church there would not be the means by which the gospel could be administered. When the Priesthood is on the earth, the Church is the instrument through which that authority functions. The Priesthood makes it possible for men to receive salvation ordinances. (D&C 84:19, 26, 27.) In this lesson we will consider that when the scriptures speak of the gospel or the Church, they are the same for, as pointed out, the one without the other will not bring salvation. A DIVINE COMMISSION After giving the Church its full name, the Lord gave a charge to his Church and its members as follows: Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy hght may be a standard for the nations. (D&C 115:5.) To every member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints the Lord has given this responsibility. Each one is instructed to exert his influence among men that the accumulative light of all members of the Church may be a standard for all people. 144 It is destined that the gospel of Jesus Christ should be a light to the world—the means by which the nations would receive direction in governing their people in the ways of security and peace. In addition, the gospel is a standard or guide fo the members of the Church, and also for the nonmember that may seek it. (D&C 45:9.) Class Discussion Specifically, how may a woman member of the Church contribute to the goal of her light being a standard for others to follow? PURPOSES OF THE CHURCH The scriptures reveal that there are three major responsibilities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are: (1) to preach the gospel; (2) to perfect the lives of the members of the Church; (3) to make it possible for the member of the Church to save his dead. There are other purposes for the restoration of the gospel, but they may be included in the three major ones mentioned above. If the member of the Church is to let his light shine forth that others may be influenced by it, then it would seem that his covenant obligation would be fulfilled through these purposes. Not just one of the programs of the Church, but all of them are necessary for salvation. PREACH THE GOSPEL Throughout the dispensation the Church has promulgated the gospel through a unique missionary program. The contribu- tion of thousands of missionaries to making the gospel known among the nations of the earth, has produced an energetic and devoted' leadership in_ the Church that has helped the work progress. If the member of the Church is to fulfill his covenant with the Lord, he will accept the inspired statement of President David O. McKay: "Every member a missionary." All members of the Church do not have the opportunity for a formal mission, but each member may perform missionary work in these ways: (1) respond to mission service, stake or foreign, if eligible; (2) induce nonmembers of the Church to accept the opportunity to hear the missionaries; (3) live an exemplary life that the fruits of the gospel may be known for what they are intended —a happy and worthwhile life; (4) develop a family life that will shine forth, in parents and children, that is beyond reproach; (5) plan that family members may serve in the mission field. Class Discussion Take each one of the five foregoing opportunities and ask this question: Is this privilege attainable in my life and, if so, what may I do to bring about this desirable objective? PERFECT THE LIVES OF MEMBERS The second major purpose for which the Church has been restored is to assist the member of the Church to bring his life into harmony with the principal objective of the gospel—the perfection that will eventually Lesson Department bring eternal life in God's presence. (Matt. 5:48; 3 Nephi 12:48; Moses 1:39.) Wherein does the gospel provide the means by which the member. Of the Church may perfect his hfe? By baptism, by both water and Spirit, there is provided the gift of the Holy Ghost that brings innumerable helps to continue along the way to perfection. Prominent among these are the gifts of the Holy Ghost which are to be sought for after baptism that one may not be deceived. (D&C 46:7-26.) Organizationally through the Church, manifold opportunities are provided whereby the person may (1) have fellowship with fellow members; (2) find strength from and fellowship with Christ through partaking of the sacrament worthily; (3) receive opportunities for service to others through teaching and leadership positions. Class Discussion Show wherein the foregoing three privileges help the Relief Society member of the Church to perfect her life. ~ LEARN THE GOSPEL How can a member of the Church shine forth that his light may be a standard for his family and associates without knowing how to make or improve that light? From the Lord's Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, we find ways in which the revelations have affected for good the lives of those who sought perfection. (D&C 1:24-28.) In order to relate these points to the commandment to study the gospel, perhaps we could put these 145 February 1968 ideas in question form: (1) How does one know when he errs or makes mistakes which are contrary to what the Lord has revealed? (2) Unless one knows what it means to observe a commandment, how will one learn of what he is to repent? For example, do you know what the Lord requires of his people in the observance of the Sabbath day? (D&C 59:5-24.) (3) May a person be truly humble without an understanding of the principle of humility, as God requires humility? (4) How will one receive knowledge, from time to time, without seeking for that knowledge? Furthermore, will revelation be received for individual guidance and blessing unless the conditions are met that entitle one to revelation? The Lord has blessed his people with the institutional means by which they may perfect their lives. Class Discussion Am I reading the spiritual living lessons in The Relief Society Magazine, and failing to study the Doctrine and Covenants itself? TO SAVE THE DEAD The final major responsibility of the Church is to provide the means whereby the members may fulfill their covenant obligation to their kindred dead. Without the Church there would not be the means whereby the dead might be saved. First, the keys of this work are in the Church, and without them there could not be a valid ordinance performed. Second, the physical facilities for baptisms for the dead, endowments, and sealings are pos- 146 sible through the Church. Third, a rich storehouse of genealogical data is in the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that: Those Saints who neglect it [baptism for the dead] in behalf of their deceased relatives, do it at the peril of their own salvation. (DHC IV:426.) IMPLEMENTATION Latter-day Saints belong to a Church which is God-organized and God-directed. They have taken upon themselves sacred covenants that they will live to merit the name "Saint." It is their objective to assist in making the Church independent above all things under heaven. They know that this is possible if they individually and collectively seek to unify their efforts to build Zion upon the earth. When they read the scriptures, they learn how to live to fulfill their purpose in life. Since Latter-day Saints are citizens of God's kingdom, they know they have privileges and opportunities which are possible because the gospel and _ the Church have been restored to perform three major functions: (1) to preach the gospel; (2) to perfect their lives; (3) to work for the salvation of their kindred dead. Their lives must be a part of these for they know it is the sure way to salvation here and in the eternal worlds. Their hearts rejoice in contemplation of the Lord's promises, such as this one: Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the church. (D&C 100:15.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE-—Truths To Live By Message 8—Love Is Active Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: To show that love is active, not passive. Across the centuries blaze the words, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only." (James 1: 22.) These words are as applicable in the twentieth century as they were on the day they were written because love, like faith, without works, is dead. Some years ago a religious teacher in one of the Christian colleges wrote in a textbook that when Jesus said, "love thy neighbour as thyself,' he meant we should wish for others what we, ourselves, have. Is this what Jesus meant? Is wishing enough? It is not passive "action" to which we are called. President Joseph F. Smith said it is the duty of the Relief Society "to look after the interests of all the women of Zion and of all the women that may come under their supervision and care, irrespective of religion, color or condition." (Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, tenth edition, pp. 386-387.) "Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations." (D&C 115:5.) In writing of the sisters, the Prophet Joseph Smith used action verbs, "... Fly to the relief of the stranger pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed... Dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice open doors to the weary traveler... Divide With the hungry... Needy and destitute with concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated." (DHC IV, pp. 567, 568.) When a woman moves into our neighborhood, especially one not of our faith, are we the first to bid her welcome? Do we, by repeated kindnesses and constant good will, without undue intrusion, show her that we love her as a sister? When one of our acquaintances does something well or shows charity, and we hear of it, do we commend her? When we find it necessary to discipline our children, afterwards do we show forth an increase of love lest they esteem us to be their enemies? (See D&C 121:43.) Do we take the time to cultivate common interests with our husbands, our children, and our friends? People know that we love them i47 February 1968 through our behavior. They cannot read our minds. True love is active. By our responsible care of another we demonstrate that God's love operates in and through us. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 8—Making Every Room a Library—An Invitation to Learning Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: To show that the home which invites the reading of good books will add enrichment to the lives of the family members. INTRODUCTION A professor once stood in his living room in front of a wall shelved with books and _ said, "Having these books here in my home has done more for the education—to say nothing for the pleasure—of my family than the whole school system put together." Modern living has in many instances done away with what used to be an integral and vital part of every home—the library. But we have not lost sight of the value of good books in our homes. Now, instead of confining our book space to one room, we literally live with books in every room—that is, we do if we are wise. For one thing, they add a quality of warmth and _ personality to any room which nothing else can give. Far more important than the decorative value, however, ls the influence they exert upon every member of the family 148 both consciously and unconsciously. Not only do they fulfill an actual need in our own lives as parents, but they develop in our children a real liking for reading, a genuine interest in books. Children instinctively love books, and constant contact with them and easy access to them naturally increase this love. As parents, we need to know that reading good books is not only a pleasure; it is an actual need—a mental and_ spiritual food for the soul. Having books in the home encourages family reading and becomes a source of enjoyment and interest in doing things together. As one young family member put it, "I wonder what families do that don't read books together? It's like not knowing each other's friends." Our children can widen their world, increase their vocabularies, and learn to communicate intel- ligently by reading. The more they are exposed to books, and the more available these books are, the more they will read. To Discuss 1. Do I, as mother and homemaker, have a responsibility to provide a reading background in our home for my children? 2. If I have a lack of interest in books do I allow it to reflect itself in the attitudes of my children? Where Are Our Books? 1. In the kitchen. A well-known editor of a health and home magazine says, "Every family who wants to take advantage of the best knowledge of our time should be building a nutritional library—the basic books in foods and cookery that give an understanding of this vital area." Every true housewife has her own favorite cookbooks and recipe files. A shelf in her kitchen will keep these in order and in easy reach and, at the same time, add an accent of interest to her surroundings. 2. In the living room. There is nothing which adds a more attractive appearance to the living room than bookshelves filled with interesting and colorful books. These are especially attractive flanking the fireplace or extending across one end of the room between windows or on either side. Books placed between book ends or on end tables and desks are an invitation to family members and friends. The standard Church works are particularly appropriate in such places. 3. In the dining area. In many of our homes the dining area is combined with the living room or doubles as a dining area and family room, and in both situations, books are a welcome addition. However, the dining room is actually the place where the family can bring out the real value of having books in the home in discussing and enjoying together the things they have read. 4. In the bedrooms. Books are comfortable to live with, and they are a Lesson Department welcome addition to any bedroom. They can be placed in any convenient spot—on a bedside table, on a writing desk, or on shelves built for that purpose, sometimes in the headboard as a part of the bed itself. Even the youngest children like to have a bookshelf that they can reach by themselves in their bedroom. This can be moved higher as the children grow, to accommodate more books and equipment in the teenage years. If the children find pleasure and not merely duty in reading books, they will want to live with them. They will take pride in building their own "library" from the books they receive at Christmas or on birthdays or any other special time when books are an ideal gift. 5. Inthe bathroom. Many homes have bookshelves in the bathroom. There are those who enjoy reading while relaxing in the warm water of the bathtub. To Discuss Are my children being encouraged to love good books and reading by association with them at home? CONCLUSION Parents in the home can teach their children, through their constant association with books in their home, that learning is part of the privilege of living and also part of the fun. Whether our children go through life with good books as their friends and companions depends upon us, the mothers—upon our own attitudes toward the importance and use of books in our homes. A home that will have the greatest impact on young minds and which will be remembered as having given the finest incentive toward intellectual, emotional, and spiritual enrichment is the one which holds out to them this constant invitation to learning. 149 SOCIAL RELATIONS-—A Light Unto the World Lesson 8—''That's What They Say, Mama"' (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Alberta H. Christensen Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the responsibility of the mother in fortifying the home against some propagandizing of the commercial world. INTRODUCTION This lesson acknowledges the valuable service of commercial advertising as a legitimate means of disseminating information. As such, it establishes an important and special relationship between individuals and between groups. The lesson, however, also deals with a negative aspect of some advertising. It points out a mother's responsibility to use discrimination in her acceptance of advertising claims and her responsibility to fortify all family members against the biased, even undesirable, advertising of some harmful products. Class leaders will wish to select for full discussion those areas of particular interest and application to their groups. THE GOAL TO SELL The purpose of commercial advertising is publicly to remind and to announce; the goal is to sell, either a service or a commodity. Often a new product is being 750 ~- introduced, or the aim of advertising, by stressing particular features, may be to induce more people to purchase an already known commodity. The advertising technique may involve a change of viewpoint, a different procedure, 'or it may accent an advantageous expenditure of money. As an informant and a reminder, advertising thus renders a vital service and is an asset in today's accelerated living. A FACT TO CONSIDER Since the purpose of publicizing a new commercial product is to market that product, the advertising will naturally point out its attractive qualities, ignoring any undesirable features. In this fact lies the misleading and sometimes harmful factor of some commercial advertising. One need only to consider the glowing statements made for products which are known to be injurious to man, to realize that the onesided advertising story is real. Fortunately, some of the unfavorable features bypassed by advertising are of less concern, affecting only the expenditure of time or money. REVELATION THAT FOREWARNED In February of 1833, in Kirtland, Ohio, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a_ revelation which forewarns us as follows: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation. (D&C 89:4.) The scripture continues, enumerating some specific items which are beneficial and some which are detrimental to the well-being and health of man. This lesson is concerned particularly with two of these products which present-day scientific research has proved to have injurious effects upon men; thus confirming | a revelation of years ago. In the words of the scripture we read: And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. (D&C 89:8). Interested individuals and groups are attempting to offset the alluring advertisements for tobacco by giving statistics as to its harmful effects. Yet, in spite of these efforts, in spite of increased evidence of medical findings and research warnings, the consumption of tobacco is a rising spiral. Entrenched economic forces, lncluding growers, manufacturers, retailers, and certain — political subdivisions, continue to entice individuals to use tobacco. Those few countries which have banned Lesson Department advertising are to be commended highly. Confirming the statement that the producers of tobacco, ignoring the claims of medical research, are increasing their efforts to sell even more of this harmful product, is the following statistic:... The cigarette companies are now spending $300 million [in] cigarette advertising and the government is_ only spending two or three million dollars to warn the people against the dangers of cigarettes. (Church News, Deseret News, April 8, 1967.) Class Involvement Discuss the following statements: 1. The home can fortify against the enticings of this commercial advertising by stressing that divine counsel is supported by medical research. 2. Junior and senior high schools aid materially when they supply data on harmful effects of tobacco. Further Involvement Question: How can parents, especially the mother, most effectively counteract the misleading and fallacious images presented to youth through alluring and attractive tobacco advertising? Discuss the following images: 1. The image of — luxury-living, through the king-size cigarette. 2. The glamorous image of being sophisticated, socially adequate, and in the "know" group. 3. The image of enjoyable, carefree, boy-girl cigarette relationship. 4. The image of vigorous, robust manhood, in connection with the full, rich flavor of the filter-tip cigarette. Discussion Statement The so-called cigarette "improvements" actually acknowledge that there are harmful effects. For example, 'Use the filter and be kinder to your throat," "The filter tip means fewer coughs," 'it is less irritating, has lasting flavor." "BEHOLD IT IS NOT GOOD" The heading for this paragraph 151 February 1968 leads us again to the 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, where we read: That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong. Drink among you, behold it is not good. And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. (D&C 89:5, 7.) The alarming rise in the consumption: of liquor throughout the world, is of concern to those who are aware of the many prob- ' lems that it creates. It is the concern of highway patrolmen, who would keep the highway free of accident, and of industrialists and manufacturers to the extent that its use may affect the efficiency of labor. It is. Most certainly the concern of all parents, for they are inseparably associated with the well-being of all family members. Alcohol consumption should be the concern of all citizens, since all segments of our society are affected by irresponsible actions associated with the human consumption of alcohol. Class Involvement Discuss briefly: 1. The intoxicated automobile driver. 2. Man-hours. Lost to industry through alcohol: induced illnesses. 3. Waste of human dignity and creative potential by the deteriorating influence of alcohol. Questions 1. To what extent, in your opinion, is commercial advertising of alcoholic: beverages responsible for the increased sales? 2. How can the home fortify against the propagandizing that to drink is to be socially elite? 3. When is the teaching moment for children? Is it when the child, recalling an attractive commercial 152 cartoon or catchy slogan, asks about it? APPRAISAL AND CAUTION The radio, television, newspaper, poster, magazine, and the billboard are the general media of advertising. Through artistic picture, clever cartoon, messagecarrying slogan, and the catchy singing commercial, the purchasing public is made aware of new or improved things to purchase. Through these media the mother is made quickly aware of situations and commodities which may be of profit to her and to her family. She appreciates this fact. She appreciates. The commercial advertising that alerts her to reduced clothing prices, special food sales, and advantageous seasonal purchasing in. All areas. Sueh a barrage of advertising, however, may, at times, be confusing. It forces upon her the need to choose, to be discriminating, to consider and appraise advertising claims, and to look for the. Values not referred to in the advertising. For example, the new processed foods and complete meals may be time saving and attractively packaged, but many may be more expensive for the family food allowance. The homemaking lessons of Relief Society stress wise buymanship and counsel women to purchase prudently with the family resources in mind. Suffice it to say in this lesson, that: all members of the family, even small children, are involved in the art and science of advertising in today's complex world, and family. Relationships may - be happily or sometimes adversly affected. The following small-boy conversation illustrates this fact. Boy 1: I don't ever like to eat cooked cereal. I want to be a champion. Boy 2: Me, too, I want to have muscles like. Boy 3: I always want the big box so I can get the prizes inside. Boy 4: Which prizes? Boy 3: The ones with the picture on the outside. When you get a whole set you send for a prize. Boy 4: Every time I go with my mother to shop, I coax for the box with. Clown cutouts and magic tricks. She doesn't want to buy it—she says it's too expensive. But I coax and coax; so we do. Boy 5: I know a kind where you can get fourteen prizes. Boy 6: We children won't eat anything for breakfast but... Because we like the cutouts on the front. I say, what are they there for, if not to buy? Some advertising would lead our young children to believe that they should have anything that they desire. Class Involvement 1. Do you consider the foregoing conversation a natural reaction, but one which may alert the mother to a teaching opportunity? 2. How may the mother-child relationship be strengthened by a wise handling of such a situation? 3. Is this example illustrative of situations on other age levels—the adolescent, and even the mother herself? The woman. With no children? APPRAISE THE POSSESSION: Children are not the only individuals who may be strongly influenced by the glowing commercial. This need be 'no discredit to the advertising, for the claims made may be valid and Lesson Department desirable. It does, however, call for choice-making, for appraisal, and the challenge sometimes of self-denial. If an adult develops good judgment, is wisely selective, the entire family may profit by her action. If she is not wise, but lets desire for many "things" override need and resources, unhappy, even disastrous situations, may occasionally result. Question Is there danger of being possessed by our possessions? Discuss. THE HELPFUL GUIDELINE Fortunately, there are many guidelines within the framework of Church teachings which may materially assist the mother in being wise and prudently selective. These teachings also may help her to understand the general guidelines. Class Involvement 1. Putting spiritual values above earthly possessions. 2. Temperance and moderation. 3. Economic security of the family which may be effected by the mother's purchasing choices. CONCLUSION By way of summary and in conclusion, we may say that constructive advertising can be an invitation to abundant, useful living. It can force us to make choices for which. We may be eternally grateful. It can lead mothers to. Valuable teaching moments. (See Lesson Helps.) For the mother who, seeing commercial advertising, is led to study the written teachings of the Church, it may help answer the unvoiced question of the son 158 February 1968 who looks wonderingly at the tobacco ad, or the smaller child who, recalling a TV cartoon or a singing commercial, asks, "Why don't we do?... Why don't we hhave? They're fun and they're good! Anyway, that's what they say, Mama." For Home Doing Appraise your relationship to commercial advertising and the valuable lessons it may teach. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 7—''Charity Out of a Pure Heart"' (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Elder Robert K. Thomas "The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart." —New Testament, | Timothy 1:5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 OBJECTIVE: Charity, or the pure love of Christ, distinguishes those who give—and those who receive—graciously. (Note to Class Leader: This lesson will include musical selections, Mendelssohn, Symphony #5, ''Reformation Symphony" Final Movement, from the Relief Society teaching kit, and a consideration of the painting ''Le Bénédicité'' by the French painter, Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin (1699-1779), with the commentary thereon, by Floyd E. Breinholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University, printed on pages 686, 689, of the September Relief Society Magazine.) GENERAL COMMENT There are few utterances in scripture as beautifully phrased as Paul's description of charity in I Corinthians 13: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to 154 feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth.... And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity. These verses have such balance and cadence that it is possible to speak them impressively without plumbing their significance, or to hear them with more pleasure than understanding. The concept that even greater than faith or hope is charity, is a very arresting one. At first glance—or even after some thought—this emphasis on charity seems to be a little extravagant, for modern definitions of this term stress almsgiving and mere good will to the poor and suffering. It should be noted that charity surely includes concern for the physical needs of others. But we slight one of the fundamental truths of the gospel if we fail to sound the full significance of this concept. "Charity never faileth" should be more than a motto for mutual aid; it should assert the practical validity and necessity for loving God and all his children wholeheartedly. An analysis of the word itself can be helpful here. The Latin word from which charity is derived is caritas, and this is a reasonably exact equivalent of the Greek term agape. In the Greek New Testament the word in I Corinthians which we translate charity is agape. The significance of this is that there are at least three terms in Greek which can accurately be translated as "love": eros or selfish love, philia or brotherly love, and agape or selfless, unconditional love. These distinctions have blurred a little in use, but it is obvious that the translators of the King James version were anxious to make a discrimination which some earlier (and later) Lesson Department translations have virtually ignored. Agape is often simply translated as love, but this does violence to a very significant idea. The Book of Mormon helps us keep in mind the very special nature of agape—caritas— charity when Moroni tells us that charity is the pure love of Christ. Such a concept could not be focused individually as in eros, and it must be more than the reciprocal cooperation and affection we call brotherly love. The love which God exemplifies in John 3:16 is not given to those who promise to return it. It is not deserved by us, and it has no qualifications. This is charity, pure love. As we think about this concept, it occurs to us that charity has taken on less exalted connotations in our day merely because we cannot face the implications of unconditional love. As a member of the Relief Society, it might be more comfortable to think of the Society's motto, "Charity Never Faileth," in less demanding terms. Taking a pie to our neighbor is an opportunity for which we are usually thanked profusely. Quilting in a homemaking meeting offers fellowship, and a bazaar is often a surprisingly effective way to raise money. But the love that remembers the widow or widower, in little acts of remembrance long after the companion is gone, the pure love of children that prompts a woman to assume a Cub Scout den when her boys are far beyond Cub Scout age— these begin to suggest the apparently unrewarded love that is charity. It is important to note that 155 February 1968 such love is only "apparently" unrewarded, but it is equally important to realize that, in the world's terms, we may get little obvious recompense. If our concepts of reward are limited by the world, we will always be uneasy and a little defensive in the presence of unconditional love. It simply is not of the earth but is a celestial law which can be appreciated only by those who are preparing themselves for exaltation. The selections which are included in this lesson try to help us see what a life infused by charity can be and the pitfalls which would compromise our charitable efforts. "GIVING," BY KAHLIL GIBRAN "Giving," by Kahlil Gibran, a Lebanese-American poet, is not a fully developed exposition of selfless love, but it is an excellent introduction to some of the distinctions we need to keep in mind as we prepare ourselves to understand this concept. The opening lines of this well-known prose poem are conventional enough. We are told that giving possessions is not as significant as giving ourselves. It is in his recital of how we give that Gibran begins to suggest some of the distinguishing characteristics of charity. After describing those who give with joy and find their reward in that joy, and those who give in pain and grow in so doing, he comes to a third group: And there are those who give and know not pain in giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue; They give as in yonder valley the 156 myrtle breathes its fragrance into space. Through the hands of such as these God speaks, and from behind their eyes He smiles upon the earth. Many of us are so conditioned to a giving of ourselves which is short of this that we find it hard to conceive of love which is spontaneous, inclusive, and unqualified. It may help to think of ourselves as receivers of God's unconditional love. While he cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, God never withholds his love from the sinner. And as King Benjamin reminds us in The Book of Mormon, we cannot really repay the Lord for this love. In strict accounting, we will always be "unprofitable servants" no matter how hard we try. Gratitude is a worthy expression of our awareness that the Lord loves and helps us unreservedly, but it really does not even our account with the Lord. This is beyond our power and not even meaningful when we talk of that love which is charity. Many critics have tried to assess the appeal and importance of Gibran's work. While there is little agreement as to its importance—some feeling that he is more rephraser than thinker— most agree that its appeal is based on its mystical vision, metrical beauty, and a simple and fresh approach to the so-called problems of life. "Giving" is typical of Gibran's style and method. For Discussion In Gibran's '"'Giving" we are told that we who deem ourselves givers are but "witnesses." What is suggested by this? BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2.. 55 Zone 5 > ae.80 Zone 3..60 Zone 6.90 Zone 4... 65 Zone 7; 1.05 Zone 8. 1.20 a —_ = DESERET FReEews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 SOUTHERN TEMPLES TOUR March 14-23 HAWAIIAN TOUR June 16-30 SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR July 6-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS July 27—August 11 July 27—August 17 CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 18-31 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department "A CHRISTMAS GUEST," BY SELMA LAGERLOF Selma Lagerlof's "A Christmas Guest" helps us see that there is some risk to giving. Little Ruster, the object of the Liljekrona family's compassion in this story is not very attractive and clearly not deserving. But the mother in this family is encouraged to note that the little man she is trying to help still has a spark in him which enables him to recognize what he is. It is this spark she hopes to fan, aided by her innocent and pure children. "A Christmas Guest" is Scandinavian in locale and dated in time, yet it manages to speak freshly to anyone who sets himself to help another. Probably all of us would find it both convenient and satisfying to aid the attractively destitute, the deserving poor. But real want has often had such a negative effect on those who undergo it that helping them is neither appealing nor easy. Ruster, in this story, is such a person. In the words of the mother: "If it had not been Christmas, perhaps I would not have ventured; but when our Lord dared to place a little child who was His own son among us sinners, so can I also dare to let my little children try to save a human soul." For Discussion How serious a risk do you think Mrs. Liljekrona is running subjecting her children to Ruster? What should our guide be in such cases? "BARTLEBY, THE SCRIVENER,"' BY HERMAN MELVILLE The next selection for this month is almost a short novel. 157 February 1968 Written by Herman Melville in the early 1850's, it is a strange but unforgettable story. It has usually been interpreted as a thinly disguised expression of Melville's own difficulties as a writer. Whether this is so or not makes little difference in our use of this tale, for whatever its genesis, this is asearching examination of man's relationship to his fellow human beings. Bartleby's employer is a conventionally good man, perhaps even a markedly good one. His weaknesses are obvious, but none of them is vicious, and we recognize that few men would be as patient as he is with the totally uncooperative Bartleby. He is sincere in his desire to help and his pity seems genuine, yet he no more succeeds in aiding Bartleby than Bartleby succeeds in helping himself. The basic reason for this is the powerful point of this story. No one cares enough for any other person in this tale really to help. The lawyer will try anything short of unqualified love. Bartleby and the other copyists are so tied up in their own problems that they seem incapable of enough detachment to recognize what they need to do, much less have the motivation to do it. Possibly the lawyer's plight is the most pitiful. He understands at least dimly what he should do. He talks of the "divine injunction" to "love one another," but he quickly drifts to that level of charity on which he feels comfortable, and this is hardly more than self-interest. The real tragedy of this story is suggested at the very end. Bartleby's life and death are moving in their stark emptiness, but it is not enough to say "Ah, humanity!" and thereby shift blame to something abstract. The failures of this story are not abstractions; they are the human beings who settled for something less than unconditional love toward one another which alone might have saved them. For Discussion Bartleby's employer is shifted from leaving Bartleby alone by the reactions of friends and clients. To what extent should such public pressure determine our individual, moral attitudes? No theme which we have considered in the three volumes of Out of the Best books is more basic to human happiness and heavenly exaltation than the topic examined in this lesson. In epic understatement, Moroni of old sounded its fundamental importance when he says, "whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him." (Moroni 7:47.) 158 * HAWAII Fev. 16+ Aprit 12 * MEXICO * EUROPE 16 days to 5 weeks, from $275 (from New York) * TEXAS HEMISFAIR * PALMYRA PAGEANT * ALASKA ADVENTURE For all travel and ticketing arrangements RET, eave ney 110 East 2nd South 3 Salt Lake City, Utah, 4 <8-898; 71:03 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 ORGAN SONG Linnie Fisher Robinson Organ, sing your varied songs, Contrapuntal, note on note; Shake the air with counterpoint, Soothe me with your voice afloat; End the day with folklore lyrics Or with hymnals' solemn praise. Let the air be filled with color, Sound and beauty for my days. Oh, make harmony a stair Of melodic atmosphere; A medley of tones and rhythm Singing of man's idealism; Out beyond all memory— Arias of lands to be. TO GRANDCHILD Lucille R. Perry When barely three begins her pilgrimage A picket fence surrounds her sovereign state. Small kingdom? Which of us can gauge Its vastness, though it ends beside the gate. Are we too old and traveled for this place, Its grand geography of wonders to recall? Then she will show us, laughter on her face— With fresh insight she contemplates it all. The bug that, prodded, rolls into a sphere, A frantic ant which seeks a shady crack, And if she crushes that which she holds dear, Of sentiment and tears there is no lack. The years will show her eyes more distant parts Than this some day, but let us take her hand, See through her eyes, reeducate our hearts As we return to a child's encompassed land. 159 101 100 99 97 96 95 94 Mrs. Susannah Wagstaff McGhie Holladay, Utah Mrs. Mary M. Clarkson Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ann Wray Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Ellen England Miller Bakersfield, California Mrs. Jane Clark Angus Banks Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nicholas Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Julia Ann England Denney Robin, Idaho Mrs. Martha Vance Fowles Fairview, Utah Mrs. Carrie M. Freeman Tomlin Maramec, Oklahoma Mrs. Minnie Martin Lutz Teton; Idaho _ Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois 93 160 Salt Lake City, Utah 92 91 90 Mrs. Alma Gertrude Watson McGregor Provo, Utah Mrs. Marilla Catherine Jensen Oliver Claresholm, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Ella Jarvis Seegmiller St. George, Utah Mrs. Curma Murray Summers St. David, Arizona Mrs. Mary Ann Tuck Pasadena, California Mrs. Flora Blackman Manchester Huntington, Utah Mrs. Clara Elizabeth Woodbury Adams - Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs.. Louise Worthen Doff St. George, Utah Mrs. Florance Autchinson LaComb Evanston, Wyoming Mrs. Henrietta Cox Stewart Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Esther Densley Mousley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rosina Sophia Spiers Douch Hesperia, California Mrs. Alta Salisbury. Lewis Peoria, Illinois Mrs. Edith Mary Dunn Woodford Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Lennberg Jenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Laura Mette Ltewellyn Dallas, Texas Mrs. Annie B. Maxwell Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Schirmeister Tujunga, California Mrs. Mary Isabelle Richards Tanner Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Ballard Cardon Logan, Utah Mrs.-Robena Barclay Buckley Orem, Utah Mrs: Sarah Jack West Covina, California Mrs. Jennie Linda Fjeldsted Myrup Salt Lake City, Utah- @ MOTIVATING READING IT'S SMART TO BEA LATTER-DAY SAINT by LaRue C. Longden $2.50 LaRue C. Longden, a devoted leader of youth, has selected in this new volume some of her counsel to young people and their parents on why it is "smart" to live up to Latter-day Saint standards. By Beatrice M. Sparks $3.95 An excellent gift from a mother toa daughter. Written especially for high school and college girls, this book contains the secrets that make life a happy and rewarding experience. Foreword by Larraine Day. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, {¥ Orange. California 92668 | 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL: SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN Please send me IT'S SMART oe 777 SO MAIN ST. ORANGE. CALIFORNIA TO BE A LATTER-DAY SAINT [_] —— > = KEY TO HAPPINESS [_] Total cost $ Paid by check BF money order me Charge established account [_] Total cost must include 342% sales tax from residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Name. Address. City. A picture of carefree happiness.. Guaranteed by Beneficial Life Insurance Your family deserves to enjoy the pleasant. Happy, things of life and you can also make sure they have the opportunity to achieve all they have set their hearts on if you have provided them with a secure financial future through foresight and planning - and life insurance. Pes 'Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah And you can do it so easily; a stroke of your pen can create an "Instant Estate" for your family. This "Instant Estate" can be tailored to your specific needs b a knowledgeable and experienc Beneficial Life Agent. 