LESSON 3 Literature (3rd Week in December) THe SuHort STorRy—GrREAT BRITAIN Part [| Suggested Stories: — or Grendel's Raid—Esyllt and Sabrina—The Humbling of Jovinian—The Story of An Heir ECAUSE the majority of us come from an English-speaking race, the English short story will have a greater meaning and interest for us than that of any nation we have previously studied.

InGreat Britain, the short story can be traced back to a time long before the formation: of our language.

It was not until the 15th century that English, as we recognize it today, came into being.

And it took well into the 17th century to make the language easy for us to read at first sight.

However, Beowulf, the most ancient epic of the Germanic people (an episode of Beowulf appears in the text under the title "Grendel's Raid"), was possibly written in the seventh century, some four centuries before the Norman conquest of England.

After Beowulf, we have the writings of Bede and Alfred, but few story tellers of note until Chaucer and Langland's time in the 14th century.

There was a 12th century priest, Geoffrey of Monmouth, whose works purported to be a-history of British kings and who laid the foundations for the Arthurian legends, next to be taken up by Malory.

There was also the Gesta Romanorum, collected in the 13th century.

It was made up of tales about the deeds of imaginary or real Roman emperors and was centered about Christianity.

After Sir Thomas Malory in the 15th century came the ideals of the GUIDE LESSONS Italian Renaissance.

One of the most lasting English results was the collection of Palace of Pleasure Tales by Painter.

It was from this material that Shakespeare and other.

Writers took many of their plot conceptions.. However, not until the time of Joseph Addison from 1672 to 1719 was English prose refined to its present state and the foundations laid for the writing of novels —out of which finally came the short story of today.

It is with these periods that the first lesson on the short stories of Great Britain is concerned.

Naturally, all of the stories cannot be read in class.

For this reason the class leaders will have to choose the ones she thinks will best appeal to her group.

As many members as possible should read the stories outside class.

Beowulf should not be among the _stories omitted.

Of its author nothing is known except that he was a man of genius who liked to throw a veil of Christian morality over the pagan life of the long gone past.

There is reason to believe that Beowulf, 'who is the hero of the story, was a real person... In the story the poet tells us that the collar given Beowulf passed into the hands of Beowulf's lord, Hygelac.

Hygelac is a historical person and was slain about 512 A. D., while making a raid into a province of the Netherlands.

The poem, Beowulf, consists of four separate stories, all dignified and moral in tone, but cold and sad as if they were written in a world where the sun never shone.

It lacks the cheery note of later English literature.

The stories are, (1) the hero's fight with Grendel, (2) the fight with Grendel's mother, (3) the triumphal return of the hero, and (4) the death of Beowulf.

Our story is concerned with the first.

FOR JANUARY 629 Hrothgar, the Danish king, had built a famous and beautiful meadhall called Heorot from the hart's horns adorning the gabled roof.

There the old king lived in peace with his warriors until he began to receive nightly visits from a hideous and powerful monster named Grendel.

This Grendel came up from a cave beneath the marshes.

He was a terrible thing and supposed to be a descendant of Cain. (Medieval lore had it that Cain was the father of many horrtble and misshapen monsters, and here we see the pagan veil). For twelve years Hrothgar endured Grendel.

Then a thane of Hygelac, king of the Geats or Goths, came to his rescue.

Beowulf, who had the "strength of thirty men" in his wrists, was followed by fourteen of his bravest warriors.

They spent the evening drinking and feasting in the hall.

Late hours came, and they were left alone to sleep.

It was then that Grendel approached, and laughing horribly, tore one of the men limb from limb and ate him.

But this was Grendel's last raid, for after.

His fight with Beowulf the monster crawled away to die.

In the later stories, Beowulf had to descend to the cave to vanquish Grendel's mother, who had been avenging her son's death.

Later, the hero became king of the Geats, and after fifty years he was mortally wounded in a fight with a dragon.

There have been mythological expositions of Beowulf—too many to give in any great detail here.

One of them is that Beowulf was a personification of storm, wind or lightning, a patron of bee keepers (which meant that he represented civilization), while Grendel typified the terrors of pestilent marshes, malaria, or the long winter nights.

An- 630 other is that Beowulf typified the introduction of agriculture and civilization; Grendel the North Sea, so that the monster's flight was as the checkings of the outrages of the sea in the spring season. * OK OK KO It is a long jump from Beowulf to Addison, but lesson space will be its own.

Explanation.

Joseph Addison, who wrote the Story of An Heir or Eudoxus and Leontine as it is sometimes called, was born in Wiltshire in 1672 of reputable and cultured parents.

At fifteen he entered Queen's College, Oxford, where he was known for his talent in writing Latin verses.

From one of his poems he earned a pension of three hundred pounds a year and on which he set forth to see the world.

While he was abroad, his patron lost his political position.

That meant the loss of Addison's income, so the young man came home.

But fortune was still gracious.

Addison soon wrote a poem on the battle of Blenheim, '"The Conqueror," which became extremely popular.

It was not that he was a great poet, but more because good poetry was extremely rare and the Duke of.

Marlborough, who had won the battle, was the exalted idol of England.

Addison rose to be secretary of state and married a countess.

Luckily, for the sake of English literature, his party lost power and he turned to writing.

He and Sir Richard Steele collaborated on a small daily, "The Tatler," and later on "The Spectator." Both of these printed short essays containing morals.

The writings were really short stories without plots and were exquisite examples of English prose.

In his genius, Addison was a combination of wit and elegance that made his writing like the delightful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE conversation of a cultured gentleman.

He had a refined wit and the power of delicate satire.

Throughout all his works he took the attitude of a conscious and professed moralist.

He lived at a time when manners were apt to be coarse and selfish and morals had a corresponding tone.

But he set up no impossible standards.

Rather he used the effective weapon of gentle satire and made England laugh at itself.

The Story of An Heir is not altogether typical of his gayety, but it has polished style and his moral ideas.

Notes on Beowulf (Ba'o-woolf). Fen-refuge: lair beneath the lake mead-bench: drinking bench veterans of Scylding: the Danes (other names are explained in lesson) Questions on Stories 1. Story of An Heir.

What circumstances prompt Ad-. Dison to relate this story?

Name all the motives impelling the exchange of Florio and Leonilla.

Are they sufficient?

Is the end too 'clearly in view from the birth of the two children?

Are the steps to that end obvious?

Analyze the story from this outline: Initial incident Progress of action Dramatic climax Progress towards climax of action Climax of action The Denouement (da-noo-man —closing episode in story). What things in the story indicate the interest of Addison in the moral, rather than in the narrative itself?

Could interest in the story be heightened if the author had emphasized the dramatic moments?

How would an author today develop this story?

Could this story be expanded into a novel?

. Grendel's Raid.

What descriptions or episodes are pagan in their nature?

What elements of Christianity do you find?

Who was Beowulf and why did he come to Hrothgar's hall?

What elements in the story are supernatural? 2. Esyllt and Sabrina.

Who were the Huns?

Why did Hymyr fail in his battle with King Locrinus?' Why did Locrinus put Esyllt away?

Is he a weak character?

Has this story a single predominating character?

In what ways does it differ from 631 the modern conception of a short story?

Does the length of time destroy the unity of the story?

What are the outstanding traits of each character?

Is there a struggle or conflict?

Does the story seem plausible? 3. Humbling of Jovinian. 'What are the supernatural features of this story?

Do you know of any other stories where this theme has been used?

What faults of Jovinian caused: his downfall?

State the theme of this story in a few words.

LESSON 4 Social Service