[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Our Testimony Meetings]

Never, since the awful martyrdom of the
Sources of Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother, the
Strength and Patriarch Hyrum Smith, has this people been
Power. in greater need of spiritual guidance, spiritual
hope and good cheer than now, today. The
clouds are very thick over our heads, those clouds of war and
bloodshed which encircle the earth in their pall. Fear, anxiety,
and above all the hysterical excitement begotten of frenzied
emotions, press upon our hearts and rob our pillows of
sleep and our days of comfort. We look upon the morrow as
the harbinger of sad news, and dread the hopeless hours of the
lonely night, lest collapse seize upon our spent vital forces.
Under such conditions we cannot neglect our spiritual opportunities
without losing our one source of vital refreshment and
renewal. Our meetings, especially our sacrament and testimoney
meetings, are our most exhautstless sources of strength
and power.
The electric carriages depend upon the en-
Spiritual energy stored within their batteries. These
Generating batteries, because of separation from a con-
Stations, continuous supply of electrical fluid, must be
recharged frequently from some central generating
station, or they "go dead" when the battery is exhausted.
Just so are we — humanly charged with the divine
spiritual electrical fluid, yet separated by mortality from the
central generating station operated by God's angels. We carry
sufficient with us to supply the ordinary life forces, but when fear, disease, or death confronts us, we must get back to the
Source of spiritual energy for the renewal and revitalizing of
our faith and hope. God has named and ordained special
houses and particular forms or symbols by which we can
obtain this re-charging of spiritual life. Our houses of worship,
our temples and altars, dedicated especially to this purpose,
are such divine generating stations.
In this life-renewal we must observe, how-
Extremes to ever, two distinct dangers: First, our menbe
Avoided. tal substitution of worldly ideas and ideals
which we sometimes feed to the seekers for
strength in these spiritual generating stations in place of the
pure, exalted principles of revealed truth; second, the extreme
indulgence, the over-charging of our frail bodies with a spiritual
fluid which may wreck our hopes and actually weaken
our bodies. As an illustration of the first danger: sometimes,
especially in our Relief Society meetings, the members become
so enthusiastic over the studies and labors connected with
home life and war activities that the testimony meetings are
set aside and there is no time allowed for spiritual up-building.
On the other hand, it may happen that the members find such
joy and spiritual exaltation in testimony-bearing that they
carry this phase of our work to an extreme, even meeting in
private homes and hunting up dreams and visions, sometimes
of very doubtful origin, with which to feed the mounting
mental excitement. Neither of these practices is wise or desirable.
Extremes are ever to be avoided. The Lord, through
his servants, has ordained certain seasons for testimony meetings
t: he general one held by all the people on the first Sunday
in each month ; and for Relief Society workers, the first Tuesday
in e ach month. On general principles, these two meetings
furnish sufficient occasion for testimony-bearing by our Relief
Society members. It is not proper to seek too frequent opportunities
for testimony-bearing. And far more to be pitied, if
not condemned, is the woman who neglects the regular and
ordained occasions to build up and renew her spiritual strength
while listening sympathetically and prayerfully to others' testimony
and occasionally bearing her own.
A Relief Society ward or stake officer who
Dangers would, or who does stay away from the testimony from
Neglect. Testimony meetings prescribed on our programs
for any purpose whatsoever, is taking upon
herself a fearful responsibility. The harm a leading officer
may do by setting aside testimony meetings and thus allowing
her organization to get a hardening of their spiritual arteries
is beyond her power to even guess. Officers, see that this is
not done. In our testimony meetings let us get and
Rational keep the calm, sweet spirit of hope, faith and
Testimony. peace. There is no excitement nor frenzy in
the manifestations of the Spirit of the Lora.
Tears may spring, hearts may melt, but there will be no
shadow of what we call hysteria in voice or look upon the
countenance of one who is moved upon by the Holy Spirit.
Let no one be unwise enough to exercise the gifts — of tongues
or prophecy — without the consent of him or her who presides
over the meeting. Seek not after unauthorized dreams and
fables to quote, for the scriptures are full of true and reliable
prophecy and vision. Quote therefore from the scriptures —
and study them diligently and constantly. Relate your own
frequent and illuminating experiences. Cheer the downcast,
bless and praise the Lord, instil faith in the hearts of the young
and inexperienced, and seek, in your testimony meetings, to
glorify God and to speak well of Zion. Offer up fervent prayers
for the mouthpiece of the Lord to this generation, and center
your faith on the triumph of right in this terrible conflict.
Thus and only thus can Relief Society women get and keep
the divine fluid which will renew their war-weary spirits and
revivify their exhausted and toil-worn bodies.