[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Little Silver Mother, Song]

mother's death. She with the other children were left to the care of their father and an older sister (Susannah Dunn), whose mother was also dead, and who was only fourteen years old when these little brothers and sisters were left to her care. In the midst of poverty, the hard times and privations incident to the early pioneer life in Utah, the children all young, were subjected to a life of hardship that may be imagined only by persons acquainted with such scenes. October 5. 1868. in the Endowment House. Salt Lake City, Evangeline was united for time and for eternity to Allen Collins UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 335 Hunsaker. Soon after her marriage she moved with her husband to Honeyville. where they Hved for about eleven years, when they settled in Ehvood. Utah, being among the first settlers, again pioneering a new country. Her husband was a farmer and sheep man. He was Presiding Elder of the branch for over ten years and always received encouragement and help from his wife. Seventeen children were born to them, namely: Simeon A., Lewis, Eva L., Lily J\L. Emaline INI.. Harriet V., Ethel, Adeline (died in infancy), LaTitia. Margaret, Susie, Aleen, Nephi'(died at two years of age), Oscar (.died at three weeks), Lorenzo S., Amy, and Harold (died in infancy). Thirteen of the seventeen children are now grown to maturity, and all except one ( Lorenzo S.) are married and all had that ordinance performed in the Temple. Surelv the teachings, the example and the loving counsel of this parent have not been in vain! If the children of this loving mother do anything wrong, or if they do not keep the commandments given to them as members of this Church, it will not be because the mother and father failed to teach them by example and precept every principle of the gospel. Sister Hunsaker is a faithful member of the Church, being a worker in the ward Relief Society and helping in every way she can. She is the grandmother of 74 children and has four greatgrandchildren whose father (Simeon A.) died in 1902 and their mother in 1904. She has taken these children (the oldest being seven years old when their mother died), and cared for them, and they are now grown men and women. The eldest (Simeon V. Hunsaker) has enlisted in the Navy. Two of Sister Hunsaker's sons — Simeon A. and Lewis — have filled honorable missions; the first to Germany and the latter to England. For almost forty-nine years she has been a constant companion, atrue and devoted wife and a loving mother. Long may she yet remain to be a source of inspiration to her posterity. FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS. A new and tuneful duet for soprano and alto, entitled, "Prince Charming," by our popular and veteran composer, John Chamberlain, is now on sale at the Chamberlain Music Company, 44 South Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah; price 50c per copy.