[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Genealogy | Title: How to Present the Genealogical Lesson]

How to Present the Genealogical Lesson. The Genealogical Committee of the General Board of the Relief Society held a public meetingin the class-room of the Utah Genealogical Library, on April 8, 1918. Representatives were present from about one-third of the stakes of Zion, although many had left for their homes at the close of the general conference, Sunday evening. The class was under the charge of the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and after some brief welcoming greetings she introduced the two speakers, who treated the following subjects: "How to Secure the Interest and Attendance of Our Genealogical Students," by Mrs. Martha Gee Smith, wife of the Patriarch of the Church, Hyrum G. Smith; and "How to Make the Study of Race History Interesting," by Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler, our new General Board member. Mrs. Smith's address follows: It is with a spirit of humility and dependence upon your faith and prayers that I stand before you this afternoon, praying the Lord will help me to give some information that will not only be interesting, but also beneficial, that you may take home to your respective wards and stakes ideas that will help you to.secure the interest and increase the attendance at our genealogical classes. The interest of the class depends almost entirely upon the teacher with the help that she gets through prayer and study. No teacher can get the desired results in these lessons unless she depends upon our Father in heaven for guidance and assistance, because the genealogical lessons are spiritual lessons. The majority of our genealogical class leaders are not colleg^e graduates, neither are they students of advanced history, but those who are willing to work, no matter if they have but a limited knowledge of history, can acquire the knowledge and skill to present these lessons interestingly and instructively. To such I hope to give some help and information. Let us always remember that all blessings are predicated on law and it is only by obedience to law that we obtain a blessing. So let us not forget, those of us who are keepers of the Word of Wisdom as pertaining to tea and coffee and other things forbidden of the Lord, that he has promised us a blessing. He says, we shay "receive wisdom and knowledge, even hidden treasures of knowledge," through the keeping of that law. Now, if we have HOW TO PRESENT GENEALOGICAL LESSON. 355 done as we have been commanded of the Lord, we are heirs to this blessing and can claim it at his hand. The next requirement is that we must prepare these lessons as if we were to gain them solely through our own study and diligence and earnest seeking. We must seek help from books, finding knowledge wherever we can upon that particular lesson, always making allowance for the statements of historians who had not the Spirit of God to guide them. At the beginning, God was not only the Creator of man, but he was also man's teacher and friend, and taught Adam to read and write and keep a record; and only through disobedience to his commandments were men ever brought down to barbarism and degradation. Therefore, in studying the ancients, through any general history, let us make allowances for the facts.stated which detract from the sure word of God as we have it in the Book of Mormon or Pearl of Great Price, or in any of the books given us of the Lord. Be converted to the vital necessity of your subject of study. For example, I will call your attention to the first set of lessons given us in the Home Economics department. Alany of the sisters complained at these, saying: "Why should we study food or the feeding of babies, or about food values; we have reared our babies and why should we worry about the necessities and preparation of food at our age?" Now observe who is talking food and its value; the whole nation. How inspired were our leaders! The Home Economics department of the Relief Society gave a two-year course in the study of food and its value — two years before the world at large gave it any serious thought. In the same way we hear from ward to ward, and in some places, from stake to stake, the cry: "Why need we go way back to Father Adam and study the history of the ancient world, when there seems so much to engage our time and energies in the topics of the day?" Perhaps I cannot answer such questions to your satisfaction just now, but I bear you my testimony that never in the range of my experience have I known the General Board of the Relief Society or any other auxiliary organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to give a course of study which was not inspired of the Lord, through the need of the knowledge outlined by the General Board of such organization. At some near future time I am sure we will all know just why we are now studying race history. We can find hundreds and thousands of women who will study about and do those things which pertain only to the temporal side of life, while by comparison, there are but a few who idesire or who do obtain the privilege of going into the House of the Lord and doing the work for their kindred dead. 
 Now^ in taking" up these lessons there are many class leaders who will ask themselves this question: "How can I obtain the required knowledge so that I will be able to impart it to others intelligently?" First, then, do not be satisfied with just that information which you get in the Magazine. The facts found therein are simply notes which must be worked out and applied by the class leader, herself seeking further knowledge in every history, geography and encyclopedia to be found in the neighborhood. She should, however, always make allowances for such information as is found that would contradict the sure word of God. Second, make a liberal use of maps; in fact, I personally would be very reluctant to attempt the teaching of a class of this kind without having access to one or more good maps. A blackboard isalso indispensable. If the class leader is well acquainted with her lesson before undertaking to give it to others, she may be sure of securing their interest; because if anyone has useful knowledge or information to impart, or a message to give, he or she can be assured that the Lord will assist such a teacher to gain the interest of the class and the members will not miss a meeting day when it is genealogical class day. The assignment method i,s an excellent one to adopt. It has been my experience, and I can only speak from experience, that a greater number of the class will be interested if I assign each of the members in turn some part of the work to perform, than when I give it all myself. Next we face the question: "How shall I assign the lesson?" It is usually less interesting and more difficult to give out the questions found at the bottom of the outline than it is to assign various members of the class to give a brief talk on a chosen topic. For example, the teacher might say to one. "You talk a few minutes on Egypt;" to another, "Tell something of Shem, his descendants or his country." Or speak of "Ham and Japheth." Some may not like this method, so each class leader should be allowed to teach her class in her own individual way. If she gets results, that is the one and only criterion. Make use of the -telephone by inquiring after those to whom you have assigned question topics. Call on them personally, if necessary; but when you go into their homes, don't talk about the ordinary things you see of the occupation you find them engaged in, but confine your talk to the subject you have assigned them, and then take your leave. When you are gone the sister you have • visited will thank you for your help, and will not regret the time spent with you. Endeavor to arouse the sisters to a greater interest in actual HOir TO PRESEXT GENEAEOGICAL LESSON. 357 temple work; for after all that is the main object in all this genealogical study and lesson work. You may find some sisters who are more interested in temple work than they are in the Relief Society or our lessons, vice versa. Persuade them all to join the Relief Society; and when you attend your sacrament meetings, pick out such indifferent women and encourage them to join the work. Proselyte for the great Relief Society. To be sure, you may be 'only a genealogical class leader, but you can still be of great benefit to the Presidency of the Relief Society in this way, and in return you will learn that the officers of your Society will be right behind you in all that will benefit the organization in any way. May the Lord bless us all that we may never cease our efforts for good among his people, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler treated the subject of "How to Make the Study of Race History Interesting," touching precision.upon the following points with illuminating skill and careful The diagram which accompanies the lesson was especially suggestive. First, prepare the soil for the seed. Before the earth was formed a council was held and the plan of salvation was made. Time was divided into dispensations as an author divides his book into chapters. Each dispensation having its special work, and all to be bound into one complete volume — the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. The prophecy of the coming of Elijah. His work, part of the greatest work which belongs to this the last dispensation. The world has been moved upon to search out its genealogies, but upon the Latter-day Saints rests the great work of being saviors on Mt. Zion. They only can enter the house of God to bind and to seal or to weld together the links of the many generations into one perfect chain. We cannot stand alone; there is a line of relationship reaching out from each individual in the world to every other individual and all lines must be made perfect before the whole is perfect. In the accompanying diagram No. 1 represents a family of seven, showing their lines of relationship unbroken. No. 2, represents the house of Israel as the Latter-day Saints, or those doing work for their dead, are striving to have it. One complete, unbroken family.