[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: General Conference of the Relief Society | Author: Amy Brown Lyman]

General Conference of the Relief Society. By Amy Brown Lyman. The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City on Wednesday and Thursday, April 3 and 4, 1918. On Wednesday three sessions were held in the Bishop's Building. At 10 o'clock 'a. m. and 2 o'clock p. m. meetings were held for stake officers and stake board members. At 7 p. m. a public meet Department.ing was held under the direction of the Home Economics On Thursday, April 4, two general sessions of Conference were held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. Thursday evening, April 4, a reception was held for all Relief Society delegates. The attendance at the conference was unusually large. At the opening officers' meeting there were present 320 representatives, and at the afternoon session there were 325. At the general session on Thursday morning in the Assembly Hall, there were 1360 in attendance and on the afternoon of the sam^ day, the number reached 1814. Roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following official representation: General Board members, 20; stakes represented, 63—52 by stake presidents and 11 by other reps; resentativethe other stake officers besides these were 30 counselors, 13 secretaries and 9 treasurers. Twelve stakes were not represented. Three missions were represented, two by presidents and one by a member. The missions represented were the Northern States, the Western States, and the California missions. One of the. important features of the conference was the splendid music furnished by the Relief Society choir, of 125 members, under the direction of the General Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. In addition to furnishing music for all of the regular sessions of the conference, the choir furnished special numbers at the Home Economics meeting and gave an entire program at the reception. By special invitation of Prof. A. C. Lund, Director of the Tabernacle Choir, the Relief Society Choir, assisted with the oratorio, "Elijah," singing-. from the east gallery the chorus, "Lift Thine Eyes," to the accompaniment of the echo organ. The artistic rendition of the solo, "Lead, Kindly Light," by Prof. A. C. Lund, with the Relief Society Choir singing the chorus, at the Assembly Hall, and also the sextette fromi "Lucia," rendered at the Relief Society reception by the choir, were real gems and were especially appreciated. The ushers for the conference, furnished by the Pioneer stake, were on hand early and late at all the sessions, and directed the large crowds so ably that there was no delay nor the slightest confusion. On Wednesday noon, luncheon was served to the 320 stake officers who were in attendance at the officers' meeting. GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Morning Session. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the meetings of the conference and gave the opening address. She referred very feelingly to the sad condition existing in the world today on account of the great war. She felt that the present era is probably a preparation for the Millennium, and she urged that the Relief Society women be prayerful and live so that they may understand the things of God. Mrs. Wells prayed especially for the boys in the trenches, that they might be filled with hope, courage and peace. The annual financial and statistical report of the General Society was read by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. The report was particularly interesting in view of the fact that it embraces, in addition to the regular features, a report of the conservation and war work accomplished by the women of the Relief Society during the last year. Some of the interesting items were emphasized. Following is the report: Balance on hand January 1, 1917: Charity fund $14,803.03>^ General fund 49,910.57 Wheat fund 67,166.89 $131,880.49>^ Receipts: Donations: Charity fund 55.903.41 General fund 54,856.45>4 Wheat fund 13,400.71 124,160.57>^ Other receipts 72,049.93 ' Total $328,091.309 Paid for charitable purposes $ 53,883.37 Paid for general purposes 123,078.29 Balance on hand December 31, 1917 Charity fund $18,095.95 General fund 54,871.04 Wheat fund 78,162.35 151,129.34 Total 1$328,091.00 Resources and Liabilities. Resources: Balance on hand Dec. 31, 1917, all funds$151, 129.34 Value of wheat on hand 308,462.21 Value real estate, buildings and furniture 238,931.61 Value of invested funds 24,767.39 Other resources 16,955.75 Total $740,246.30 Liabilities Indebtedness $ 2,557.24 Balance net resources 737,689.06 Total $740,246.30 Wheat Account Receipts: Wheat on hand Jan. 1, 1917 11.089,208 lbs. Wheat donated during 1917 389,147 " Wheat purchased during 1917. . . . 620,496 " Other wheat receipts 232.233 " Total 12,331,084 lbs. Or 205,518Vi.,bu. Disbursements: Wheat on deposit with P. B. O.. . . 5,028,745 lbs. Wheat in local Relief S. granaries 5,305,307 " Wheat in other granaries 1,040,878 " Other wheat deposits 220,638 " Wheat sold 631,389 " Shrinkage, waste and loss 104,127 " (Actual Wheat on Hand) . . . . (11,595,568 " ) or (193,259^ Vg.bu.) Total 12,331,084 lbs. Or 205,518Vi5bu. 
 Statistics. Membership Jan. 1, 1917: Officers 6,430 Teachers 13,476 Members 23,922 43,828 Admitted to membership 6,770 Total 50,598 Removed or resigned 4,699 Died 560 Membership Dec. 31, 1917: Officers 6,492 Teachers 13,858 Members 24,989 (Present Membership) (45,339) Total 50,598 General officers and Board members 23 Stake officers and Board members 1,032 Number of meetings held 36,028 Average attendance at meetings 14,642 Number of Relief Society organizations 1,085 Number of books in Relief Society libraries 5,597 Number of Relief Society Magazine subscriptions 12,190 Activities Penny Temple fund, 1916-1917 $13,588.90 Days spent with the sick 36,581 Special visits to sick 78,066 Families helped 5,868 Bodies prepared for burial 2,311 Number of visits by stake officers 5,485 Number of days spent in Temple work 23,863 Assistance to missionaries or their families $ 2,977.50 Fund raised from special work $17,311.
 311 Conservation and U^ar Work. Wheat raised by Ward Relief Societies 4,691 bu. Potatoes raised by Ward Relief Societies 88,347 bu. Fruit and jelly canned by \\^ard Relief Societies. . . . 42,650qts. Dried fruit conserved by Ward Relief Societies 12,375 lbs. Dried vegetables conserved by ^^'ard Relief Societies 21,097 lbs. Fruit and jellies canned by individual members of Driedthevegetables Relief Society for 'family conserved use by individual • members 3,264,804 qts. of the Relief Society for family use 199,910 lbs. Other items such as remodeling clothing, making quilts, etc. — number of articles 44.643 Paid for Liberty Bonds $24,685.61 Number of Red Cross memberships taken by Relief Society members 14,078 Number of articles made for Red Cross by Relief Society members 49,569 Attention was called to the small indebtedness of the Relief Society, and also to the increase in membership. During the last year, the membership increased 1,445. While there is a great increase in many instances, as shown by the report, there is a decrease in the number of special visits to the sick and the number of visits by stake officers to the w^ards. Mrs. Lyman congratulated the stakes for the splendid compilation of reports made by the stake and ward secretaries, stating that there was a great improvement over the work of the previous year. Reports from the following stakes were listed as correctly compiled: Alberta, Bear River, Blackfoot, Emery, Granite. North Sanpete. North Weber, Oneida, Pioneer, Raft River, Salt Lake. San Juan, Sevier. Shelley, South Sanpete. Woodruff, Young. Those containing slight errors were: Boise, Ensign, Snowflake, Bannock, Beaver, Cottonwood, Hyrum, Juab, Millard, San Luis, South Davis, Teton, Union, Alpine, Box Elder, Ogden, St. Joseph, Cassia, Idaho, Jordan, Taylor, Tintic. Since the last October conference, on December 23, 1917, one new stake has been organized — the Montpelier stake, with Mrs. Agnes Pearce, president. Reorganizations have taken place in the following stakes: St. Joseph, reorganized January, 1918, with Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Sarah B. Moody; North Weber, reorganized January, 1918, with Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Lucy A. Steers; Utah stake, reorganized February 1, 1918, with Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, president, to fill the vacancy caused by 
 the resignation of Mrs. Alartha A. F. Keeler; ; Eastern States misson, reorganized October, 1917, with Miss EHzabeth Thomas, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Miss Margaret Edward. The following additional items were reported: In the potato competition for prizes offered by the First Presidency, the Relief Society of the Roosevelt ward, Duchesne stake, received the second award of $500 for the largest yield of potatoes on one acre of ground, the production being 39,173 pounds. The president of this Society is Mrs. Alice M. Lambert. The Home Economics Department of Utah stake recently published a cook book with the double purpose of furnishing suitable war time recipes and of raising funds for the Provo chapter of the Red Cross. The book was very creditable as well as practical and a large sum was realized from the sale of the book. The General Board members visited all of the seventy-four stakes during last year, and in addition visited a large number of the branches in the Northwestern States mission and California mission. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman were delegates from the Relief Society to the National Conference of Social Work held in Pittsburg in June, 1917. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman attended the executive conference of the Mountain division of the American Red Cross in Denver, in October, 1917. At the Red Cross Institute for Home Service, held in Denver from November 4 to December 16, the Relief Society was re'presented by the following: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City; Mrs. J. W. Hendricksen, Logan; Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Provo, and Miss Cora Kasius, Ogden. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Emily S. Richards were delegates from the Relief Society to the National Council of Women held in Washington, December, 1917. Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth and Mrs. Heber Sears of Chicago, represented the Relief Society at the Congress of National Service held in Chicago, February, 1918. The announcement of the adoption of a Relief Society pin or emblem was made. The pin consists of the Relief Society monogram on a field of white, surrounded by golden sheaves. President Wells announced, with deep regret, that Priscilla P. Jennings, one of the Board members, had passed away since last conference. She also announced that Mrs. Donetta Smith Kessler had been chosen to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mrs. Jennings. Mrs. Kessler was introduced to the assemblage by President Emmeline B. Wells. She stated that she appreciated very much the honor that had been conferred upon her, and she pledged herself to faithful service in the cause. She expressed her great interest in all phases of Relief Society work. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, who is chairman of the Woman's Committee of the State Council of Defense, explained the relation of the Council of Defense work to the Relief Society and other women's organizations. She impressed upon her hearers that the Council has no intention whatever' of encroaching upon the identity or disrupting the work of any society or Church association. She stated that the aim of the Council is "to secure co-operation of women in all efforts concerned' with defense work; to correlate the work of public and semi-public organizations, that co-operation and harmiony might rule, rather than competition, duplication of effort and misdirected energy. All heads of organizations were urged to preserve the various departments of work under their supervision to the end that, when normal conditions are resumed, the organizations will be intact. It is through societies already organized that the Council of Defense hope to accomplish its more effective work. All activities will be correlated with the National Defense throughout its various state and county divisions. Organizations are requested to keep a record of all war activities, which record will prove of value to the Council of Defense in making its report of the woman's work of the state to the government. Mrs. Williams spoke of the praise already accorded Utah women for their splendid organization and work, and asked that the Woman's Committee of the Council of Defense be given all support possible by Relief Society women. Mrs. Susa Young Gates announced the publication by the General Board of Relief Society of a surname book. She stated that the book will be unique in every w^ay. Adapted entirely to the use of the Relief Society genealogical students, it will possess wide interest for every person in the Church. The chapter heads are as follows: Ancient Racial History, Shem's Disobedient Races. Ham's Tribes, Japheth's Tribes, Early European Race History, Where the Races Settled in Europe, Races in Great Britain. Personal Names. Evolution of Surnames, Patronymics. Sire Names, Scotch and Irish Surnames, Battle Abbey Roll, Domesday. Liber Vitae, Anglo-Saxon Names, Place Names, Official Surnames, Trade Names, Nick Names, Prefixes and Suffixes. French Surnames, German Surnames, Danish Surnames, South Sea Surnames. Chinese Surnames and American Surnames. The maps, illustrations and tables are: Maps. Canaan. England, Europe, Roman Dominions. British Isles, Ancient World, Europe. Ancient Egypt, The Ancient East, Assyrian Empire, the 
 three Scandinavian countries, and one or two others. IllustrationsTemple: in Jerusalem, Chinese Temple, Domesday Book, etc. Tables: Pedigrees of David, Descendants of Noah, Houses of Lancaster and York, Henry VH, House of Hanover, French Kings, Bonaparte Family, Houses of Stuart and Hanover, Antediluvian Patriarchs, Welsh Pedigrees,- Pedigree of Saul, Anglo-Saxon Kings, Norwegian, Danish and Swedish Ancient Royal Pedigrees. In addition to all this there will be an index of perhaps 300 pages, consisting of nearly every surname in the Church, taken from the census lists in the Presiding Bishop's Ofifice; and to practically every surname will be attached the definition and origin thereof. The edition is very small. It will be impossible to allow each ward to purchase a number of books. However, there will be a few left over from the expected number of one to a ward. Those who desire to purchase the book must send in orders at once (money may come later), as we already have many orders in the office now and when the supply is exhausted no more will be printed. Mrs. Gates stated that the book would occupy double the amount of pages at first expected, because of the fact that many illustrations, maps and the mammoth index have been added, and it has been found impossible to publish the book and sell it at $2 a volume. The assembled general and stake officers voted to raise the price of the book to $3 per volume. A rate of $2.75 per volume will be allowed where books are purchased in lots of one dozen or more. Address letters and orders to the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, busines manager of The Relief Society Magazine, thanked the women very cordially for their hearty support the war interfered of The Relief with Society' Magazine, prompt mail delivery and. asked patience if Afternoon Session. Counselor Julina L. Smith outlined the duties of Relief Society women as they were announced years ago by the Prophet Joseph Smith. She spoke also of the added duties since the outbreak of the war, and urged the women to remember three things — their own strength, the cause they are working for, and the boys in the national service. Having recently visited Camp Kearny, Mrs. Smith brought a word of cheer and comfort to the mothers who have sons in that camp. She stated that the soldiers were, in many instances, better cared for than at home. She felt that not all would go into the battlefield to die, but that those who would be called by death, either at the war front or at home, were soldiers needed on the other side. Mrs. Amy B. Lyman outlined the duties of officers in the Relief Society organizations. She cited four big ideals which had been evolved by the nation since the outbreak of the war devotion to cause, unity, obedience to authority, and willingness to train for service. On these four things, she said, the Latter-day Saints Church had been greatly criticized in the past; for these four things since the outbreak of the war the Church had received its highest compliments. These ideals, she said, had been the cause of the great success of the Relief Society. Mrs. Lyman stated that all officers in the Relief Society should first of all be women of honor and integrity, women with abiding faith and with a testimony of the gospel. She urged each woman to fill, to the best of her ability, the office, to which she is appointed, making a specialty of the particular work to which she is called. In a great many instances people have the wrong attitude toward their work. For example: It is often the case that instead of making the most of the positions to which they are called, women neglect their own work and encroach upon the work and duties of other officers. It is the duty of a president to preside and to look after the general work of the Society. Her particular effort should be placed upon the work as a whole, and not on the detailed portion thereof. A president who spends all her time with the small details loses sight of the broadness of her own work. She should, therefore, rise above the details frequently and get a broad view of the situation. No president can afford to do the work of the secretary. As soon as she does this, she neglects her own important work and loses her great opportunity to forward the general work of the society. Any president who prefers to do the secretary's work rather than her own work, should resign as president and take up the work of the secretary. Presidents should compare their work frequently with the work of other stakes and wards, and see that it is up to the standard. The counselors are aides to the 'president and should be consulted freely by the president regarding all matters connected with th stake or ward organization. There is wisdom in counsel. Counselors should not be ignored. They should help with the work and should help to bear the responsibility connected with the work. Secretaries should be chosen with regard to their particular fitness for the work they are to do, just as organists are chosen for their particular work. The work of the Relief Society has become so complicated, and the work of the secretary so specialized that unless she has had some previous training for this work, it is very hard for her to cope with the situation. 
 The work of the treasurer is also rather technical, and women should be chosen for this position, if possible, who have had some business training. Teachers should appreciate the great importance of their special field of work, being prompt with their visits and in no way neglecting them. They should aim constantly to live up to the ideals set for them and to do the work in the best possible manner. They should be wise and discreet in their dealings with families and should make it a point to carry hope and good cheer into all the homes which they visit. The work of the class teachers is, in a sense, specialized work. The woman who accepts the position of class leader should spare no pains to present lessons in an intelligent and edifying manner. This will require a great deal of study and preparation on her part. A class leader who is well prepared and enthusiastic over her work is a real power in the society and a great aid to the officers in maintaining a high grade of interest, and in increasing the attendance at Relief Society meetings. A class leader may judge of the effectiveness of her work b}' the results she obtains. Stake and ward presidents should see that their organizations are complete. When vacancies occur they should be filled at once. Mrs. Lyman read the following extract from a Circular of Instructions on Relief Society work: "A stake president, who is incapacitated for any reason, or who intends leaving her home for any extended period, should consult with the presiding priesthood as to her resignation. It is unwise for any organization to be left without an active head." Meetings for stake officers should be held at least once a month. A meeting for stake and ward officers should be held at least once a month. The speaker requested that all circular letters sent out by the General Board be preserved carefully for future reference. Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler spoke a few moments on "The Ideal Relief Society," emphasizing the importance of having the meetings conducted with tire spirit of prayer, humility and love. The time should be spent with important and eternal things, and all temporary, trivial things should be ignored. Meetings should be opened and closed promptly according to scheduled time and those responsible for the program should see that ever}1;hing is in readiness so that no time is wasted. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen spoke briefly of the Hoover Cook Booh recently published by the Relief Society women of the Utah stake, stating that those stakes who desire to handle the book in large numbers might have special concessions by applying to the Utah Stake Relief Society. GENERAL COXFEREXCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 317 Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley moved a vote of thanks to the Bailey Floral Company for the handsome easter flowering plant presented to the General Board. The motion was seconded by Mrs. Crismon and carried. Evening Session. Dr. Melvin C. Merrill, of the Utah Agricultural College, spoke on "Home Gardening." He emphasized the need of careful planning for the garden, with consideration of the amount of foodstuffs needed by each member of the family. He decried the idea of planting as many seeds as happened to be obtained at a seed store, but declared that every inch of ground should be used to the greatest advantage. Intensive gardening, Dr. Merrill insisted, must" be the great slogan of the summer's activity. If there were weeds it was a sure proof that the garden was too large for its crop. The soil should be carefully prepared and fertilized. Agreat variety of vegetables should be planted and early summer crops should be speedily replaced with those to be harvested inthe fall. Prof. Byron Alder, of the U. A. C, emphasized ths need of raising poultry as one of the big foodstuffs of the nation. With the shipping of all possible meats to the war zon*, Prof. Alder said the poultry yard must be made to furnish a big part of the nation's protein foods. It takes two years, he asserted, to raise a beef for the market, one year for pork, one year for mutton, but eggs and poultry can be kept almost constantly on the market from the time the hens begin laying. Every family in the country, he urged, should raise enough eggs to last it a year, the spring eggs to be put away in' liquid glass for the winter. He told of the care needed by the young chicks in order to insure the greatest possible production of eggs, urging especially plenty of water and sufficient meat, fish and bone scraps. Prof. Alder also urged the raising of a large variety of chickens. Miss Joan Moen, of the U. A. C, gave a demonstration in the remodeling and renovating of old clothing, emphasizing the possibilities ofold silk hosiery, woolen underwear, and other articles usually thrown away. The morning session of our Relief Society conference in the Assembly Hall found a crowded congregation ready for the excellent program which had been prepared by the by the Home Science
department, under the direction of Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. After
the opening exercises, Miss Alice Ravenhill, professor of home
economics at the U. A. C, herself one of the best known authors
in the United States on Child- Welfare, took up this subject and
delivered a most excellent address. The facts and truths which
she treated are very familiar to the women of the Relief Society, 

GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 317

Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley moved a vote of thanks to the Bailey Floral Company for the handsome easter flowering plant presented to the General Board. The motion was seconded by Mrs. Crismon and carried.

*Evening Session.*

Dr. Melvin C. Merrill, of the Utah Agricultural College, spoke on "Home Gardening." He emphasized the need of careful planning for the garden, with consideration of the amount of foodstuffs needed by each member of the family. He decried the idea of planting as many seeds as happened to be obtained at a seed store, but declared that every inch of ground should be used to the greatest advantage. Intensive gardening, Dr. Merrill insisted, must' be the great slogan of the summer's activity. If there were weeds it was a sure proof that the garden was too large for its crop. The soil should be carefully prepared and fertilized. A great variety of vegetables should be planted and early summer crops should be speedily replaced with those to be harvested in the fall.

Prof. Byron Alder, of the U. A. C., emphasized ths need of raising poultry as one of the big foodstuffs of the nation. With the shipping of all possible meats to the war zone, Prof. Alder said the poultry yard must be made to furnish a big part of the nation's protein foods. It takes two years, he asserted, to raise a beef for the market, one year for pork, one year for mutton, but eggs and poultry can be kept almost constantly on the market from the time the hens begin laying. Every family in the country, he urged, should raise enough eggs to last it a year, the spring eggs to be put away in liquid glass for the winter. He told of the care needed by the young chicks in order to insure the greatest possible production of eggs, urging especially plenty of water and sufficient meat, fish and bone scraps. Prof. Alder also urged the raising of a large variety of chickens.

Miss Joan Moen, of the U. A. C., gave a demonstration in the remodeling and renovating of old clothing, emphasizing the possibilities of old silk hosiery, woolen underwear, and other articles usually thrown away.

The morning session of our Relief Society conference in the Assembly Hall found a crowded congregation ready for the excellent program which had been prepared by the Home Science department, under the direction of Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. After the opening exercises, Miss Alice Ravenhill, professor of home economics at the U. A. C., herself one of the best known authors in the United States on Child-Welfare, took up this subject and delivered a most excellent address. The facts and truths which she treated are very familiar to the women of the Relief Society,

---

318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

but a new angle was given through the presentation of modern statistics; and especially attractive was the cultured form and substance of the address. The speaker referred to the decision of the United States to make this coming year a child-welfare period, and manifested the need of more intelligent apprehension concerning the age-old problems of child-protection from diseases and death. Compared ignorance concerning the causes and prevention of infant mortality to a poison in the human system which necessitates an antidote, and recited the startling figures of infant mortality which was like a public poison withering the roots of national life.

"Some races have more resistance to certain diseases than others," said the speaker. "The Caucasians are more susceptible to tuberculosis, whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever and other ailments. The yellow race has a peculiar resistance to certain organic diseases which enables it to live under conditions which would be fatal to the white race Each one of us inherits certain tendencies. It is our duty to find out the direction in which each child is least resistant, to strengthen the weak and consolidate its strong points. Liberty does not carry with it the right to disregard the rights of others. The greater the democracy the stricter the discipline of its members that the rights of others be regarded—the more responsible their duty to maintain a high standard of health, strict sanitary conditions, not alone for their own welfare, but that of their neighbors."

She stated that 300,000 children died annually in this country before birth and declared that these conditions could be improved by a complete birth registration insuring the lightening of considerable ignorance and the aiding of the poverty stricken. Three thousand more children, she said, died before twelve months of age. The United States spends $350,000,000 on its insane population in one year, despite the two preventable causes of insanity—unfit parentage and the poisoning of the mother's system before the birth of the child. She told of the death rate in the various countries of the world of infants under twelve months old, for every 1,000 of child population, as follows:

Belgium, 167; Italy, 153; Germany, before the war, 147; France, 127; England, including the city of London, 90; Russia, 248; Canada, 248; New Zealand, 50; and the United States, based on a very incomplete estimate, 120. Twenty-five per cent of the babies of this nation were found to have died of conditional debility; 9 per cent of bronchitis or pneumonia; one-ninth of digestive disorders; 50,000 annually of tuberculosis; 12 out of every 100 of whooping cough; from 10,000 to 20,000 annually of measles. For every death there was also counted six cases of illness which survived, resulting in blindness, deafness, dullness,

---

GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 319

delicate lungs, crooked spines, diseased joints, ruined digestions, etc.

The speaker urged the mothers to study the conditions which will prevent disease and to enlist themselves in the war against child sacrifice. In closing she added some startling statistics as follows:

Some 106,392 men, or 70 per cent of the applicants for the navy, had been found physically unfit; 500,000 of the military enlistments, or one-third, had been found through preventable diseases, unfit for service, all between the ages of 21 and 31. Eight million more men above 31 had been found physically disqualified, meaning that 13,000,000 men who should be in the very prime of life were physically useless to their country in its hour of need.

The demonstration in food values and war-time substitutes given by Miss Jean Cox, of the U. A. C., was extremely interesting and attractive. The speaker had upon the stand sample portions of various foods, and thus illustrated all of her valuable and excellent points. She showed the contrasting caloric values and certainly provided many new suggestions for those present to work upon in the present food crisis.

*Afternoon Session.*

The conference in the afternoon was addressed by President Emmeline B. Wells, Counselors Clarissa Smith Williams, and Julina L. Smith, and Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission. Counselor Williams was the first speaker, and she delivered an earnest exhortation to the sisters, saying, in part:

"We conserve in food and we conserve our clothing, and we endeavor to do all those things which are necessary for us to do in order that the great work which is being carried on today may be carried on to a successful finish. I want to say to you, dear mothers, *conserve yourselves.* If there is any danger today, it will be in the over-anxiety of the mothers and women past middle age who are past the child-bearing age, but who are the mothers of growing children. If there would be a danger to them, it would be that they should endeavor to overdo the conservation theory. I would feel to impress on you to eat plenty of food, 'plenty of calories,' as Miss Cox said this morning—not overeat, but find, if possible, food that agrees with you, and then 'eat it slowly and chew well.' That is an old saw, but it is verily true. I know by experience that it does not take as much food for the nourishment of an adult person if it is thoroughly masticated. So take time to eat, take time to rest a little, and to reflect; and above all things, take time to pray that you may have the spirit of our heavenly Father and his beloved Son, to uphold you and give

---

320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

you strength to carry the burdens which are yours during these trying times.

"I am of the opinion that the women of the Latter-day Saints, with their usual responsibility in taking up new measures, are doing all in their power to help to carry on this great struggle in which we find ourselves. But sisters, have you ever paused to think that this war will not be won with bullets—it will be by the united effort of the whole people of the world who are working for peace and the right kind of peace, that the people may enjoy all the rights which the Lord designated that they should enjoy here in the world, and that it will take faith and prayer and work more than bullets to win this great struggle.

"I presume that many of you are surprised and delighted with the opinion of many noted men that the love of the Lord and the belief in the divinity of the Lord, and the thought that religion adds to the happiness of the human family is being widely disseminated, not only among men who have been of a non-religious nature, but many young men who thought they had no religion. I do not mean only our own young men, but many of the young men of the world are being led to believe that there is a God, that there is a future life beyond this life, and it is being borne in on them that it is proper that they should live in such a way that they should be ready to enter the presence of the Lord. Some beautiful testimonies come to us from our own young men. You know, you mothers, how our boys are often quite indifferent. They know that they are Latter-day Saints, they have always been Latter-day Saints, they have been taught to do this and that and the other, but they have not taken it very seriously. Many of them now feel that they are on as sacred a mission as they would be had they been set apart to go to preach the gospel; and by their conduct, and their manners and the words quietly spoken, they are able to be true missionaries to those with whom they are associated. I think one of the best things that has come to me has been the testimony of my own young son. He had the measles in the training camp, and during the time that he was in quarantine he had a great deal of time to reflect and read. While he was in a ward, he was yet in a quiet corner, and he wrote to tell me that he had had a beautiful testimony of the gospel. He had always thought the gospel was true, and it meant the most to him of anything, but he had never had a testimony of the gospel until those quiet hours that he spent in reflection and in prayer while he was on his sick-bed. Now that, sisters, means more to me and more to you who have sons who can bear this same testimony, than millions of dollars of riches. The very thought that our children are impressed with the divinity of the gospel, that they have the inspiration to tell them that the gospel is true, that

---

GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 321

they can say, 'O, I never realized what an uplift prayer could give to me until now!' Now, when our dear ones can approach their heavenly Father with a firm belief that he will answer their prayers, that he is there, ready, just as their earthly parent would be, with accentuated love for them, oh, what a spirit of blessing it brings!

"I pray, my dear sisters, that we may have the Spirit to uphold us, to give us faith, that we may bless those about us with faith and with love and with courage, that we may be upheld by the knowledge that our Father in heaven is able to assist us, and that at all times we may be found doing his will and keeping his commandments."

Counselor Julina L. Smith continued in the same theme, adding her own choice and sound advice as follows:

"While Prof. Ravenhill was speaking to us this morning about the boys and the men in the world, I felt to thank our heavenly Father that our boys, the Latter-day Saints boys that have been called away, have not been found diseased and in a condition that they would have to be sent home because they are not fit for soldiers or for anything else. Once in a while we find a boy or two amongst us who have heart trouble, or some physical disability, but we can cheer up and feel thankful that our boys who have been reared Latter-day Saints are examples to the world; and when we hear of such things as we heard this morning of men in the outside world, we are grateful that our boys are not in that condition.

"Now, most of the army boys smoke, and I said to a doctor down in San Diego, 'Why do they smoke?' In reply he stated that the boys had to walk so far every morning and drill so many hours, and that those who smoked and used tobacco could not walk as far as those that did not; and I asked him, 'Why do they allow them to smoke?' He said, 'That is up to them; they are permitted, of course, to use their own judgment in that.' He admitted that those who were perfectly pure and clean and kept the 'Word of Wisdom,' could walk farther and do better than the others. Now, you mothers who have reared your boys to be Latter-day Saints, and have taught them not to use tobacco and liquor, you have some comfort, even if your sons have been called to war.

"We have been looking forward to just such times as we have now. You, like myself, knew that when the Lord said that just such things would come as we are having now, that they would come sometime. I did not think it would be in my day. I thought before the end came we would have wars and pestilence and earthquakes and cyclones and all those things which the Lord said would come unless we were faithful and true and repented and lived right—and we have not lived right, there are many of our

---

322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

own young folks who are being led away and have not been living as well as they used to live; but I think those who have had good teachings will do well.

"I have heard of many of our boys who are away, exercising their good influence with other young men, that have not had the same training that the Latter-day Saints have had, and these others are listening to our Latter-day Saints boys and watching and imitating them.

"In regard to our saving—we can do a great deal of saving in taking care of food. I have seen people who would waste perhaps nearly half that they cooked, put on the table what little they wanted, and scrape the rest out. We can save by cooking only what we need, and if there is a little left over, warm it up and fix it over for another meal. But we do not have to eat food that is not palatable. We can cook it properly and have it palatable and good and have some left, and we can save in that way.

"In regard to gardening—I have done lots of gardening myself, and since I have been where I am now, without a little garden spot, I have looked out on the lawn many a day and thought if I had a little corner of that lawn where I could plant a little lettuce and a few onions and radishes, and go out and pick them in the morning, like I used to do, how glad I would be. It would not hurt anybody to take care of a little piece of garden like that. I do not believe in saying to our old ladies and to the sisters who have worked all their lives: 'It is your duty to go out and plow and hoe and water and raise grain and vegetables'—there are many young people who can put in some of their time that way; and it will not hurt them, it will do them good—just as much good will come to them from raising vegetables as raising flowers. And the older ladies can put in their time sewing and taking care of chickens. Those who were at our meeting last night heard the lecture on raising chickens. I was very much interested in that. An old lady can tend to the chickens and enjoy it, when she could not go out and hoe in the garden. There are things that we can all do that will help, and it is all war work. The old ladies that can sit and knit stockings and scarfs and wash rags and quilt pieces—they are doing their part and helping the soldiers. And I want to tell you that we are on the Lord's side. Our boys are working for the Lord, and we are going to win, for the Lord always wins. We may have a hard struggle, but we are going to win, we know that. As long as we are on the Lord's side we are all right.

"Our Relief Society women have always been ready for whatever call the president of the Relief Society makes upon them, no matter what it is for. They respond directly, they are right up

---

GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 323

and in arms. When the President of the Church says we want this, that or the other, they are ready. It is like touching an electric button and turning on the light. It takes only a little while to get out a word to all of our sisters, then they are on hand to do what they are asked to do. It is not because they are afraid and have to take counsel: it is because they are loyal and love to work in unison. When our government calls on us and says we want you to save and take care of the food, we are on hand to do it. When the government says, we want your boys, the best and healthiest that you have, to go to war, to go and help to save their country—that is the biggest and the hardest thing that we could be called upon for; but how do our sisters and our brothers respond? They say, 'Go, my son, you go and do your part. If you lose your life, you will lose it in a good cause, and if your life is spared to you, return home, knowing that you have done your duty, and you will be prepared to go on and help the Lord in his work.'

"I pray that the Lord will bless each and every one of us and help us to do his will and help us that we may not forget to pray, to pray for all who have gone to war, that all the honest in heart and all who trust in the Lord may be blessed, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen."

Mrs. Ellsworth said, in part:

"I feel this afternoon as I listened to that beautiful trio, and heard those sisters sing, how blessed are they who trust in the Lord! and I looked over this splendid audience, and those words filled my heart: 'How blessed are they who trust in the Lord!' The Lord has been good to the Latter-day Saints; he has kept his promise to us that to us should be revealed his mind and will, and that we should be magnified in the eyes of the world, and that the eyes and the hearts of the nations of the earth should be turned to Zion.

Since the first of last December I have had the privilege of visiting 25 groups of women located throughout the six states of the Northern States mission, and in making my trips to and fro to those 25 groups of women, I have come in contact with many, many people, and have had the privilege given to me to talk to them about the prophecies concerning the war, and I come to tell you that the spirit of unrest, a feeling of fear, is in the hearts of the people of the world. Our missionaries testify that as they go from door to door, tracting, many are glad to listen to their word; they are turning their hearts to the things of the Lord.

"Our missionaries number about 168, yet are a band of children compared to the educated and experienced men and women among whom they labor, but the Lord is good to us—our baptisms this year have been greater in number than in any other year

---

324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

of our mission. We baptized in the month of July more than were baptized in the whole of the first year that President Ellsworth presided in the Northern States.

"And I was glad to hear yesterday in our meeting and today the cry from the stand, 'Sisters, conserve your strength.' I think sometimes we get too anxious, too over-zealous, and do more than is required of us, and still I do not want to feel to criticize, but do my utmost in everything that I am called to do.

"Do you not know that we are blessed above all people in all time? To us has been made known the prophecies of the Bible, the prophecies of the Book of Mormon, which bring us to a fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have been told that dire calamities will come: war, earthquake, pestilence, famine—we have been taught it always, not only from the prophets in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, but our Father in heaven has blessed us with our latter-day prophet, to whom he has revealed himself so that the smallest child can understand the things that are to come, the test that is to be made of his children. He has said to us, 'I will have a tried people; you must love me, you must keep my commandments; you must know the gospel and you must know that you know it.' I believe the time is right at our doors when the world is going to be shaken up, when the people everywhere are going to turn to the Lord—for as we go about in our mission, we find hundreds and thousands of beautiful, honest-hearted people. But they have not been given the light that we have received.

" 'Blessed are those who trust in the Lord.' While I know some of our boys will have to fall, while I believe sincerely that many of them will give their lives in this great struggle for liberty, I believe firmly that to them on the other side will be given the great privilege of teaching the gospel to the hundreds and thousands who will be slain.

"The day has come when the spirit of Elijah is poured out upon all nations. It is our duty to look after our dead, and if we will, the spirit of the Lord will come to us, peace and comfort shall be given to us, and even though we lose our sons, the sting of death shall be taken away if we keep the commandments that the Lord has given us.

"In our mission, with a little group of less than 400 women, we have sent in to the temple during the last year 3,300 names, and when I tell you that those sisters, many of them, work by the day in stores, in shops, some of them scrubbing, ironing, taking care of the sick, or what they can, to pay for that temple work, you will know that they believe and are fully converted to the principle of salvation for the dead. And so I say the Lord has blessed us as he said. He has kept his promise to us."

---

GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 325

President Emmeline B. Wells then addressed the meeting:

"My beloved brethren and sisters, I am sorry I am hoarse, but feel that I must speak, because I have the same feeling at this conference that I have had previously, that perhaps I might not be spared until another conference, you know, all of you, that I am not young, and probably most of you know that I have been a very long time in the Church—seventy-six years, the first day of March, since I was baptized into the Church—nearly four score years in the Church, and in that long experience I have seen and heard wonderful things. I have never doubted, not once, the truth of the gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph.

"We should guard our children and protect them from everything that is wrong; and when they do marry, they should marry, in the House of the Lord, the Temples that we have built here wherein ceremonies of this kind should take place; so that their children may be born in the new and everlasting covenant and be entitled to every blessing pertaining to that calling.

"We speak of our young men as our boys. I remember that in Nauvoo they used to speak about the Nauvoo Legion as the boys of the Nauvoo Legion. A great many of them were boys, and the Prophet Joseph himself was young. When we look back and think of his age, think of what he had passed through, and the terrible persecutions he endured, and then of his terrible death, and his brother Hyrum, and what they suffered, it startles us! However, we believe what the scriptures say, that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church; and since that time, how wonderfully the Church has grown.

"I recall the very, very dark hours in Nauvoo, when the Prophet was taken to prison, and how the people mourned, mourned as if he were their very own—it is sad even to think of it, the mourning of the people at the time when the Prophet and his brother Hyrum (the father of our present prophet, seer and revelator today) were taken to prison; and how the people turned out in the streets to watch them go! And I recall that President Daniel H. Wells said many times when he spoke of it, that they passed his house, which was just on the outskirts of the city, and that the Prophet stopped and spoke to him and said to him, "Squire Wells, I hope you won't think I am the worst man in the world because I am going to prison" There was a crowd of people all the way they went. I saw them when they went, and the crowd that followed them. But this was really on the outskirts of the city when he spoke to Squire Wells and shook hands with him, I believe if I remember right. Squire Wells had not then become a member of the Church, although I think he was convinced that "Mormonism" was true, and tried to wait for his wife to believe as he did. You know the story, all of you—I

---

326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

do not need to repeat that, but I do want to bear my testimony, even if it should be the last that I would have the opportunity to bear to you, of the Prophet Joseph and his wonderful personality.

"I think there is no person—there could not be any one, so devoid, I think, of the knowledge of people, that could think that there was anything but loyalty and truth and love and mercy in his character. He certainly had a divine appearance. It seems to me that he must have been very much like the Savior himself. When I think of him I can see him just as plain as anything can be in my mind's eye, as if he stood here in the midst of us, speaking to the people as he did on every occasion that I heard him talking to the people.

"We have had persecution here, but not to compare with that. We have had the army in Echo canyon, and kept them there for a while, until we could move to Provo and other places in the south. And then we returned in great triumph. I recall the time when Heber C. Kimball came into the house where three of the Wells family were gathered at that time in Provo, and he sat down to talk to us. He saw that we were gloomy—especially I was gloomy, because I had seen the time when we were driven from Nauvoo, and when my own mother died from persecution. She was not fifty years old when she died of the hardships. Of course hundreds of others died as well. When we went to Provo it brought it all back again—and Heber C. Kimball sat in our house in Provo, before we went into the shanties, and said, "Emmeline, let me tell you that we shall go back to Salt Lake City, and we shall go back in triumph." It was pretty hard to believe, and I do not know that I did exactly believe it, but it came to pass.

"The Lord has preserved us in these valleys of the mountains, He has kept us, and we are preserved, and we have grown and we have multiplied, and in nearly all of the nations of the earth and on the islands of the sea we have people faithful and true, just as we try to be who live here under the droppings of the sanctuary, and hear our prophets speak and talk and hear our President. All of us, probably, who are here in this house have heard President Joseph F. Smith speak from the stand in the Tabernacle. Undoubtedly we have, and I hope we shall again during this conference. And we have this grand Society, this Society of women, that was organized by the Prophet Joseph himself in the City of Nauvoo, in the Masonic Hall. There were then only a few, 18 in number, and three of the brethren of the Priesthood with them. And we have still kept on. Now we have hundreds and thousands in the Relief Society, and I believe we have all been well taught, even those who have been in foreign countries, When I heard Brother Hyrum M. Smith's wife speak

---

GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 327

as she did at one of our conferences recently, I felt that the Lord had certainly been with her in proclaiming the truth there, almost as much, I may say, as he had with the elders. And our sisters who have traveled and gone in foreign countries with their husbands and some without them, and the missionaries who have been called to stay there, their wives have gone with them; and then the young girls, young women, who have been called into the mission field, they have all done a great work.

"I remember, in Nauvoo, when some of the missionaries would be starting away, I thought, 'I only wish I were a boy, and if I could go on a mission, how glad I would be!' And I never expected then that I would see the day when the women would be called to go abroad and teach and preach the gospel. But I am very glad that I have lived to see that day. Soon after going to Nauvoo, having been associated always with the people in Nauvoo, I heard a very great deal about missions and going on missions, and I had the greatest desire in the world to go on a mission, though we were sick, and distressed, and poor, and had scarcely enough to eat. But I have never been really sent on a mission. I think I have been eleven times in Washington—on special missions, and I have been abroad, and I have talked the gospel to hundreds of people and strangers everywhere I went, if there was any opportunity at all. I have never been called upon a mission; but I was set apart to this mission that I have now in the Relief Society, which is as great a mission as I can possibly have. I love the sisters of the Relief Society as I love myself and my own kindred—they are just as near to me as many of my own kindred are that are dear to me; and my kindred are very dear to me. I feel that I made some sacrifice when my mother died a martyr to the faith, but I do not feel that I have made any great sacrifice at all myself, because my ways have been ways of pleasantness, and everything has been pleasing to me.

"The Prophet said that the people would come to Zion with their packs on their backs to be fed; and I know a story in connection with this which I could not tell you today. It is a very good one and proof that it was taken to heart by some people. I do not think that they have as yet come in that way, but probably they will, because of the terrible wars that take place in the world today, that are taking place today, and that may yet take place in the future, if the prophecies of the Bible and of the Book of Mormon, and the Prophet Joseph Smith and of President Young are fulfilled, they certainly will; and it looks now as if it was not so very far off when they would come to be fed.

"I am very glad that I have had the experiences that I have had; I am very glad that I am able to tell them to the people wherever I go, the wonderful things that we passed through in

---

328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

the early days, the wonderful man President Brigham Young was, as well as the Prophet, for certainly he was one of the greatest minds ever given to man. Except the Prophet, we consider him until now the greatest. Perhaps there have been other great men. At the present time we have the same blood in the man that presides over us today that the Prophet had in his veins.

"I recall with great pleasure the mother of the Prophet, how we used to come and kneel down at her feet and think it was the greatest pleasure possible, that she must be the greatest woman in the world, because she was the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom we all revered above any man that we have ever seen. And yet we have the same blood today, the blood of the martyrs, presiding over us today! I hope that you, all of you, and all of you who preside and have an opportunity to speak in meetings, will remember the man who stands at the head of the Church today, and who presides over us, that he is the greatest man living on the earth today. No king or potentate, or anything else, no matter what position he may occupy, is so great as the man who presides over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of which we are members; and I hope that you will all pray that he and those associated with him may live, that he will have his family and friends, and all the Twelve Apostles, and especially the President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, who is also a great man. Those who hold the Priesthood in places where they have been called to preside should be reverenced and looked up to. And let us have that great love in our hearts always that we felt perhaps when we were first baptized into the Church, the love for each other, in the Relief Society and for all those women who have been called in the Young Ladies' and the Primary Associations. Let us love them, and let us help all men, all brothers and sisters, all good people everywhere, for God is love, and love must be the greatest thing in the world when the Scriptures tell us that God is love. Let us love each other, and be true to each other in our relation to each other in the Relief Society and all the other organizations with which we may be connected or our children or our daughters or our sons.. Let us be as strong in the faith as it is possible for us to be, and maintain our purity, maintain our integrity to the gospel and to those with whom we are associated, to our own, and to all others who are good people.

"That the Lord may bless the Relief Society in every part and portion thereof, and all other good people in the world, is my prayer. Amen."
