[Vol31 | March 1944 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Sketch Of My Life Smith]
Sketch  Of  My  Life* 
ELIZA  R.  SNOW  SMITH 
1WAS  born  in  Becket,  Berkshire  I  am  the  second  of  seven  children 
Co.,  Mass.  Jan.  21,  1804.  —four  daughters  and  three  sons:  all 
My  parents  were  of  English  de-  of  whom  were  strictly  disciplined  to 
scent— their  ancestors    were  among  habits  of  temperance,  honesty,  and 
the  earliest  settlers  of  New  England,  industry;  and  our  parents  extended 
My  father,  Oliver  Snow,  was  a  na-  to  us  the  best  educational  facilities 
tive  of  Massachusetts— my  mother,  attainable    at    that    time,    without 
Rosetta  L.  Pettibone,  of  Connecti-  preference  to  either  sex. 
^^i'                .      ,  ,, ,,       ,  Although  a  farmer  by  occupation, 
In  my  early  childhood,  my  par-  ^^^j^^^  performed  much  public 
ents  moved  to  that  section  of  the  ..            ic  -  ,-        -               ^ 
c.  .       £  rM,-  -u    J    •             T   1  busmess— orriciatmg    m    several  re- 
State  or  Ohio  bordering  on  Lake  ...           .  .      ^       .          _ 
Erie  on  the  North,  and  the  State  of  sponsible  positions,  and,  as  I  was 
Pennsylvania  on  the  East,  known  as  ^en  years  the  senior  of  my  eldest 
the     "Connecticut     Western     Re-  brother,  so  soon  as  I  was  competent, 
serve",  where  they  purchased  land,  he  employed  me  as  Secretary  in  his 
and    settled    in    Mantua,    Portage  Office.    This  experience  has  proved 
County.  of  great  benefit  to  myself  and    to 
*  The  Relief  Society  General  Board  is  pleased  to  be  the  first  to  publish  "Sketch  of 
My  Life,"  an  autobiography  of  Eliza  R.  Snow,  prepared  upon  request  of  Mr.  Hubert 
Howe  Bancroft,  American  publisher  and  historian.  This  autobiography  was  completed 
in  1885.  The  original  manuscript,  written  in  the  beautiful  and  legible  handwriting  of 
Eliza  R.  Snow,  is  now  in  the  Bancroft  Library,  University  of  California,  Berkeley,  Cali- 
fornia. This  valuable  historical  material  is  made  available  to  Relief  Society  through 
courtesy  of  the  Bancroft  Library  and  LeRoi  C.  Snow,  nephew  of  Eliza  R,  Snow.  Mr. 
Snow  first  heard  of  this  life  sketch  in  the  fall  of  1943.  Through  his  efforts,  photo- 
static copies  of  the  forty-nine  large  folio  pages  were  obtained,  together  with  publishing 
privileges.  In  submitting  the  manuscript  to  Relief  Society,  Mr.  Snow  included  the 
following  statement: 
"During  the  early  8o's,  Mr.  Hubert  Howe  Bancroft,  the  historian,  spent  consider- 
able time  in  Salt  Lake  City  gathering  material  for  his  great  library.  While  here,  he  be- 
came well  acquainted  with  my  aunt,  Eliza  R.  Snow,  who  assisted  him  in  his  work. 
Before  leaving  Utah,  Mr.  Bancroft  asked  Aunt  Eliza  to  write  a  biographical  sketch  of 
her  life  to  add  to  his  collection.  This  she  did,  finishing  it  in  1885.  I  believe  it  is  her 
only  autobiographical  sketch.  Some  of  the  most  important  experiences  in  her  life  are 
related  exclusively  in  this  sketch. 
"Because  of  Aunt  Eliza's  close  association  with  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Church,  I 
think  it  very  fitting  that  this  important  manuscript  be  published  in  The  Rdiei  Society 
Magazine.  I  learned  of  its  existence  only  very  recently  and  am  loaning  a  photostatic  copy 
to  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  for  its  publication." 
The  eventful  life  of  Eliza  R.  Snow,  first  secretary  and  second  general  president  of 
Relief  Society,  and  one  of  the  most  illustrious  of  our  early-day  women  leaders,  is  always 
of  interest  to  Latter-day  Saint  women,  but  when  told  in  her  own  gifted  writing  style 
it  becomes  fascinating.  The  comments  and  observations  which  accompany  the  recital  of 
events  by  Sister  Snow  add  charm  and  value  to  her  story. 
"Sketch  of  My  Life"  will  be  published,  together  with  illustrations,  in  six  install- 
ments, beginning  with  this  issue  of  the  Magazine  and  concluding  in  the  August  issue. 
Page  131

132 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1944 
others,  at  different  periods  of  my 
variegated  life  . 
Whether  my  mother  anticipated 
or  originated  the  wise  pohcy  of 
Queen  Victoria,  concerning  the 
training  of  girls,  does  not  matter— 
at  all  events,  my  mother  considered 
a  practical  knowledge  of  house- 
keeping the  best,  and  most  efficient 
foundation  on  which  to  build  a  mag- 
nificent structure  of  womanly  ac- 
complishments—that useful  know- 
ledge was  the  most  reliable  basis  of 
independence.  Hence  her  daughters 
were  early  trained  to  the  kitchen 
and  housekeeping  in  general;  then 
to  various  kinds  of  needlework  etc. 
Two  years  in  succession,  I  drew  the 
prize  awarded  by  the  Committee  on 
Manufactures,  at  the  Portage  Coun- 
ty Fair,  for  the  best  manufactured 
Leghorn. 
My  parents  carefully  imprest  on 
the  minds  of  their  children,  that 
useful  labor  is  honorable— idleness 
and  waste  of  time  disgraceful  and 
sinful;  and,  with  us,  book-studies 
and  schooling  were  ever  present- 
intermingling  with  every  other  in- 
dustry, not  omitting  music  and  sing- 
ing: Thus  we  never  knew  what  it 
was  to  be  idle.  I  mention  these 
items  as  constituting  a  key  to  my 
subsequent  life,  showing  that  the 
impressions  made  in  childhood  and 
youth  give  indelible  stamp  to  char- 
acter. 
My  apparently  inherent  fondness 
for  reading  was  encouraged  by  my 
parents.  I  was  partial  to  poetical 
works,  and  when  very  young  fre- 
quently made  attempts  at  imitation 
of  the  different  styles  of  favorite 
authors.  In  school  I  often  bothered 
my  teachers  by  writing  my  disserta- 
tions in  rhyme,  thereby  forcing 
from  them  acknowledgements  of  in- 
ability to  correct  my  articles, 
through  lack  of  poetical  talent;  and 
yet,  my  teachers  were  uniformly  too 
indulgent  to  protest  against  my 
rhyming  practice. 
On  one  occasion,  my  versatility 
occasioned  me  intense  mortifica- 
tion. I  was  a  small  girl  in  a  "Gram- 
matical Institution"  of  young  gentle- 
men and  ladies,  taught  by  a  Presby- 
terian clergyman.  Up  to  this  time, 
the  Professor  had  uniformly  read 
before  the  school,  the  compositions 
written  by  students;  but  it  so  hap- 
pened that  a  change  was  to  com- 
mence that  very  day,  and  each  stu- 
dent must  read  his  and  her  own  pro- 
duction. Unfortunately  for  me, 
without  surmising  any  change,  I  had 
indulged  my  mirthfulness  in  a  hu- 
morous poetical  article,  written  in 
a  peculiar  measure,  which  I  copied 
from  a  war-song  in  one  of  the  peri- 
odicals of  the  day— the  extreme 
oddity  of  the  measure  rendered  the 
article  so  exceeding  amusing,  I  was 
well  aware  that  it  would  create 
laughter  among  the  students,  and  I 
should  break  down  if  I  attempted 
to  read  it.  I  could  have  listened 
composedly  had  the  Prof,  read  as 
I  anticipated;  but  for  me  to  read  it 
before  that  audience!  How  could 
I?  I  tearfully  told  the  Prof.  I 
could  not.  But  an  equitable  law 
must  not  be  sacrificed  to  my  timid- 
ity, and  the  Prof,  compassionately 
helped  me  out  of  the  dilemma  by 
proposing  to  excuse  me  for  the  pres- 
ent, provided  I  would  come  the  next 
morning,  before  the  students  as- 
sembled, and  read  it  to  him;  to 
which  I  responded  with  all  prompti- 
tude. 
When  quite  young,  I  commenced 
writing  for  publication  in  various 
journals,  which  I  continued  for  sev-

SKETCH  OF  MY  LIFE  133 
eral  years,  over  assumed  signatures^  blanket  as  long  as  he  dared  to  re- 
— wishing  to  be  useful  as  a  writer,  main  with  a  dead  body.    This  with 
and  unknown  as  an  author.  many    other   incidents    of    Revolu- 
During  the  ever  memorable  con-  tionary  sufferings  recounted  by  my 
test  between  Greece  and  Turkey,  I  grandparents,  so  deeply  impressed 
watched  with  deep  interest,  the  my  mind,  that,  as  I  grew  up  to 
events  of  the  war,  and  after  the  ter-  womanhood,  I  fondly  cherished  a 
rible  destruction,  by  the  Turks,  of  pride  for  the  Flag  which  so  proudly 
Missolonghi,  I  wrote  an  article  en-  waved  o'er  the  graves  of  my  brave 
titled  "The  Fall  of  Missolonghi."  and  valiant  ancestors. 
Soon  after  its  publication,  the  My  parents  were  Baptists  in  their 
deaths  of  Adams  and  Jefferson,  al-  religious  profession— free  from  big- 
most  simultaneously  occurred,  on  otry  and  intolerance,  their  hospital- 
the  Fourth  of  July  [1826]  just  at  ity  was  proverbial,  and  their  house 
the  time  when,  in  honor  of  the  a  welcome  resort  for  the  honorable 
glorious  day,  the  nation  was  chant-  of  all  denominations.  As  a  natural 
ing  songs  of  Liberty.  I  was  request-  result,  my  acquaintance  became  ex- 
ed,  through  the  Press,  to  write  their  tensive. 
requiem,  to  which  I  responded,  and,  I  was  early  taught  to  respect  the 
to  my  regret  found  myself  ushered  Bible,  and  in  Sabbath  Schools  re- 
into  conspicuity,  and  not  long  after,  cited  much  of  the  New  Testament 
eight  volumes  of  "Godey's  Lady's  _at  times  reciting  seven  of  the  long 
Book"  were  awarded  me  for  a  first-  chapters  in  the  Gospels,  at  a  lesson, 
prize  poem  published  in  one  of  the  When    studying    those    interesting 
journals.  narratives,  my  mind,    many  times. 
That  "men  are  born  poets"  is  a  was  filled  vdth  reflections  of  the 
common    adage— I  was  born  a  pa-  deepest  type,  and  my  heart  yearned 
triot— at  least,  a  warm    feeling    of  for  the  gifts  and  manifestations    of 
patriotism  inspired  my  thoughts  as  which  those  ancient  Apostles  testi- 
evinced  in  many  of  the  early  pro-  fied.     Sometimes   I  wished   I  had 
ductions  of  my  pen.  I  can  even  now  lived  when  Jesus  Christ  was  on  the 
recollect  how,  with  beating  pulse  earth,  that  I  might  have  witnessed 
and  with  fond  emotion  I  listened  the    power     of     God     manifested 
when  but  a  small  child,  to  narratives  through  the  Gospel;  or  that  I  could