[Vol15 | September 1928 | Sequence: 10b | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for November]

Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) "PEARL OF GREAT PRICE" "Again the Kingdom of Heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls, who when he had found one pearl of great price sold all that he had and bought it." Matthew 13:45-46. Evidently the purpose of this parable was to awaken interest in the value of seeking the Kingdom of Heaven, and the purpose of this lesson is to awaken interest in a Book which clearly points the way to the Kingdom of Heaven.

"The Name and Place as Scripture." By reference to the title page of the volume it will be seen that it is "A Selection from the Revelations, Translations, and Narratives of Joseph Smith, first Prophet, Seer, and Revelator to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." This Seer was a "Choice Seer,' and this book contains choice selections from his inspired productions.

As an illuminator of truth it is a pearl; as concentrated knowledge, it is of great value.

It can be read aloud clearly, in less time than it takes to attend a theatre; and yet there are paragraphs that may hold the attention for hours.

It deals with the revelations of God to man, from the answering of a simple question as to which church was right, up to an explanation of the universe.

The "Pearl of Great Price" is one of the four standard works of the Church, and this position recommends it as a field of profitable study and a safe source of reference.

The Contents.

The Book contains the visions of Moses under the title of "The Book of Moses;" "The Book of Abraham;" and "Writings of Joseph Smith." The consistent division of the contents into chapters and verses and the extensive marginal references make the Book in its present form an up-to-date student's text, lacking only a concordance to bring its study on a level of convenience equal to that of its three companion volumes of Scripture.

GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 
 General View.

This part of the "Pearl of Great Price" is a revelation to Joseph the Seer of what the Lord showed to Moses concerning the creation and the history of man down to the flood.

In many respects the revelation is a reproduction of the events as recorded in the Bible; but new light is thrown on, and we get the story with more simplicity and directness.

In fact it may be said that many new and precious truths have been restored in this latter-day presentation of the Visions of Moses.

Some Doctrines and Principles Illuminated. 1. The Personality of Man's Spirit.

In his visions Moses saw God with his Spiritual eyes, that is, with the eyes of his spirit; he heard the voice of the Lord with the spiritual ears, and conversed with the Deity with a spiritual tongue.

The communication between Moses and the Lord was, so far as the man was concerned, a spiritual communion.

It was a case in which the Spirit of a mortal was called into the presence of God with His glory not all veiled, and there in the spirit was shown and told things to be remembered and revealed by the mortal man: a circumstance in proof of the possibility of a mortal remembrance of what is learned through the spirit only. 2. The Personality of the Evil One.

No one can consistently believe in the Visions of Moses and deny the personality of Satan.

From a human testimony point of view, the evidence of Satan's individuality out-weighs the testimony concerning the: Personality of God.

Moses viewed Satan with his natural or physical eyes, and God with his spiritual eyes.

The contest between Lucifer and Moses points to four facts: First.

That the Devil is a person.

Second.

That the Evil One can be seen by the natural eye.

Third.

That man can resist the Evil One.

Fourth.

That the Evil (One can be banished by man in the name of Jesus Christ.

The Attitude of Moses is a Key to Conquest in the Field of Temptation.

He felt and knew that he was a son of God and therefore standing upon the apex of self-respect; he then weighed the tempter with a demand for light.

"Where is thy Glory?

Is a good question to have in readiness for the tempter. 3. The Fatherhood of God.

The Lord made plain his parental relationship to man by saying 
 to Moses: "Thou art my son," and frequently addressing him as "Moses, My Son." Moses was born a son of God in the premortal state; but as a man he became a son of God through baptism. 6:66-68. The tenderness of God as a parent was shown by something stronger than words when the Almighty wept at the contemplation of what the wayward of his family would suffer.

Wrong-doing has a double terror when seen as something that hurts not only man but his Maker also. 7:28-31. 4. Obedience the First Law of Heaven.

The first commandments after the fall required, not blind obedience, but the obedience of confidence.

The upward climb of the race began with the obedience of confidence, the obedience of faith.

It leads heavenward. 5:5-7, Entrance into the Kingdom of Heaven is impossible without the child attitude, the willing attitude, the trusting attitude, and the attitude of perfect confidence.

"Except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the Kingdom of Heaven." Matt. 18:3. So spake the Savior of mankind, and then he added: ''Whosoever, therefore, shall humble himself as this little child is greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven." He knew that the foundation of greatness is humility, the only safeguard against humiliation.

He was and is the way and the life.

How often he taught the lesson of the obedience of confidence by declaring that his will was subordinated to the will of his Father. 5. The Earth Affected by the Conduct of Those Who Live On It.

The Earth is heard to mourn: "Woe, woe is me, the mother of men.

I am pained.

I am weary because of the wickedness of my children.

When shall I rest and be cleaned from the filthiness which is gone out of me?

When will my Creator sanctify me that I may rest, and righteousness for a season abide upon my face?" 7 48. We know that a part of the earth may be affected by our conduct all the time.

No one can say that his hand steals or that his tongue lies.

The body is a tabernacle in which we live, it is an instrument which we use.

Why is the cheek flushed with hope and paled by fear?

There is more than sentiment in dedicating a home and in praying for the earth to yield.

It is not inconsistent to believe that the things which respond to the mind may have some of the universal mind in them.

"The wind and wave obey His will' may be as philosophical as it is poetic.