The New March of Dimes Fight Birth Defects -Fight Arthritis The National Foundation Your March of Dimes and dollars are now working harder than ever. There are more than seventy March of Dimes Centers in fifty-one cities across the United States. Typical of such centers are the Birth Defects Special Treatment Center at the L. D. S. Primary Children's Hospital in Salt Lake City, Utah, and the Juvenile Arthritis Special Treatment Center at the University of Utah. In these centers each working day finds dedicated, skilled men and women continuing the fight against Birth Defects that strike a newborn child in America every other minute of the day, and against the Nation's Number One Crippler — Arthritis, which now afflicts eleven million Americans. In our fight against Birth Defects, your March of Dimes contributions are also supporting a broad range of studies to determine why Birth Defects and Arthritis occur, how they may be prevented, and the best means for correcting disease and disability. Despite polio's headlong rush to oblivion, thanks to the Salk and Sabin vaccines which you literally bought and paid for through the March of Dimes, there are still many partially or completely paralyzed victims who need help and further rehabilitation. Give to the 1964 March of Dimes and your treatment centers will be able to continue in their search for hope and help for the child born less than perfect. Give generously to your 1964 March of Dimes. Ve. Hazel K. Todd Wri strange anticipation the welldressed young woman stood alone in the falling snow before the old house in the trees. She had come through the sagging gate, down the snow-filled path where, as a child, her dancing feet had sped. The taxi that had brought her from the airport was rapidly disappearing into the white mist down the country road, taking with it the driver who had raised an eyebrow questioningly as he deposited her expensive luggage at the porch. But how could he know by looking at the old house sleeping there, of the Christmas warmth it had held within its ancient walls! The woman stared at the great carved door. How could she hope to find the something of Christmas she had lost, that used to be here in this silent old house! For the parents who had brought her here as a child were gone, and the grandparents who had hung the great tree with tinsel and angels were gone, too, these twelve years. And she, Joan Mason, an_accomplished dress designer and owner of the old house, alone, was left. For a minute she turned and stared back the way she had come. But the taxi had already disappeared in the mist of falling snow. Slowly she opened her purse and fumbled Fite PR ATA EAT aU STM. " ayo Cems. A wee "Lease fo y Srieh tase in it to bring out an ancient key tied with a red string. For a few seconds she gazed thoughtfully at it and then she fitted it into the black lock of the door. It turned easily with the generations of years of experience behind it. The door swung open and she stepped inside. Standing there with her back to the door, her eyes traveled expectantly over the old familiar things as if already the lost essence should sing out, "You are here! At last I am found!" But they were silent, the things she had known, the red plush sofa, the bookcase with its glass doors and its rows of books, the elaborately framed pictures of her ancestors on the wall, the mantel where she had hung her Christmas stockings long ago. In the great fireplace wood lay unkindled. With a warm tingle of old familiarity she turned to the carved bird on the mantel with its match-filled wings. In a few minutes the fire was blazing comfortably. She had hung her wraps in the hall closet and put away the groceries that she had bought in the village on the way. Now she sat before the fire in the old rocking chair where her grandmother had rocked. Vinson would be surprised if he could see her here. She went over again the words she had scribbled so hurriedly on a sudden impulse: Dear Vinc, I won't be able to go on the house party. I hope you'll forgive me. I've gone to find something of Christmas I had once and lost. —Joan She never would have thought of writing the note or of coming, if the letter hadn't arrived in the mail yesterday morning from the Grays, the aged couple who were the caretakers of the old home that had come to her as an inheritance from her grandparents. The letter had simply stated that an unexpected opportunity had come for them to spend the winter in Arizona, and they were enclosing the key. In all the years the old place had belonged to her she had paid no heed to it, except for the checks she mailed for its maintenance. But yesterday, when she opened the letter, the key with the red string unleashed a stream of memories that rushed and tumbled over each other until she wept softly into the folds of the scarf in her hands. She saw her grandfather placing the great log on the fire. She danced around the Christmas tree while they hung it with wonderful treasures from an old brown box, candles with real fire, popcorn, and homemade chains. And the star at the top, a great silver star painted on a smooth board and wound with tinsel and beads. And her grandmother had wrapped it and unwrapped it very carefully each year, because, as she had explained to Joan (who was Joanna then), it represented the 30 Baby Jesus when he was born in Bethlehem. So deep in the midst of clamoring memories was she, that the knocking at the door might well have been her grandfather, his arms filled with the Yule log, demanding admittance. As in a dream, Joan rose and started across the room. Then she halted. This was not her grandfather! Someone to see the Grays. She was about to return to her chair when the knock came again. It roused a curious impulse, and she found herself at the door looking down into the small, heart-shaped face of a child. She was a quaint little girl with long dark braids hanging from a queer little knitted cap with a peaked top. She wore a long gray coat and heavy overboots. In her mittened hand she carried a brightcolored sand pail that might have been from a different world. At sight of Joan the child's brow puckered in a puzzled expression, and she brushed her free hand over her cheek in an odd little mannerism. Joan looked at the child with curiosity. At least this was something new and different. "Won't you come in?" she asked, still holding the door. The child hesitated. "But where is Mrs. Gray? I wanted her to help me find the star." Joan looked at the bucket, wonderingly. "I am very sorry," she said, "Mrs. Gray isn't here any more." The child's face fell. For a moment Joan thought she was going to cry. Quickly she tried to make amends. "Perhaps — perhaps I could help you." She looked at the bucket again. "Did you say a ster?" The little face brightened hopefully, and she smiled. "Oh, didn't you know about the asked in deep surprise. Then, when Joan still looked puzZled, she added so very earnestly, "You know, the Christmas Star, the Jesus. Star. Mrs. Piney says that People have lost the Star because they don't remember Jesus any more." Joan stood a moment staring at the child without saying anything. "She says it must be found again," the little gir] continued, oo a Suppose it must," Joan whispered slowly, "What did you say?" "Oh, you must be cold," she said, brushing the snow from the peaked cap and the ong coat. "Please come in and sit y the fire. Let me take your coat and cap." The little girl sat on the low stoo] where she, herself, had sat so many times long ago. She placed the bucket carefully on the lap of her brown dress. "What — what were you going to do with the star?" Joan asked with her eyes on the bucket. The child looked up quickly with frank blue eyes. "If I had a Christ. Mas tree I would hang it at the tiptop where everyone could see it." Joan struggled with the strange emotions inside her. She gazed at the little girl in wonder, while she searched carefully for words. But THE Lost STAR She could find none appropriate. "I guess it must have tumbled from the sky," the little girl went on, completely unaffected by Joan's silence. "It must be in the fields. But Mrs, Piney is so old She could not walk in the snow. But you will go!" she finished brightly. Joan looked out the window. The white dusk was gathering. The short winter day would soon be Over. The snow was falling steadily with thick white flakes. What did you do with a strange child with some long-ago charm who wanted you to go in the snow some place to hunt for an imaginary star that had fallen from the sky because people had ceased to think of Jesus! Piney will not 80 to sleep tomorrow." "Who is Mrs. Piney?" "She takes care of me. She cooks the food and sews my dresses." Joan looked over the drab brown dress buttoned under her chin, at the bulky Stockings, and the oldfashioned coat She had hung over the chair by the fire. Her mind drew a vivid picture of Mrs. Piney and played: "Oh, I will come tomorrow!" said the child happily. Then again there was a knock. A half-fearful, startled look crossed the little girl's face, and she turned her stool with her back to the door. Joan arose and walked to the door, half expecting some unreal person to be standing there. It was a man, tall and lean. Yet in his face were the same frank blue eyes as those of the little girl. At sight of her he looked surprised and lifted his snowy hat, displaying dark hair grayed at the temples. "TI beg your pardon," he said apologetically, "but I was looking for a little girl. She comes over here occasionally, even though I have told her she must not bother the Grays." Joan looked at the man, her mind filled with questions. There was no sound from the little girl even though Joan was sure she must have heard. There were drawn _ lines about the man's eyes and mouth, and Joan thought she detected a hint of bitterness about him. She stepped back from the door. "Please come in," she said. "The Grays are in Arizona. I own this place and I came to — to see about it,' she finished lamely. He entered and she saw him stiffen slightly. "There you are, Mitzie," he said quite sharply. "Why did you run away when Mrs. Piney was asleep?" The little girl began to cry then, sobbing, with her tiny face buried in the skirt of her brown dress. "You must come with me at once," the man said quite sternly, crossing to her. Even though the present dilemma was no concern of hers, Joan felt desperately the urge to do something. She put out her hand instinctively. "Please," she said, "do not scold her." And then her face flushed. "I mean, Mitzie was certainly no bother." "She knows she must not run away," the man said, taking her by the hand. "But, Daddy, I wanted to find the star!" Mitzie wept, standing and clinging to her father's leg. Fle put his hand on her head. "Mitzie, you must stop talking such nonsense." He turned to Joan. "I am away a lot," he said. "The woman who takes care of her is old and sentimental." Mitzie let go his leg and held her face in her hands. But he was holding her coat, and she ceased her crying and put her arms resignedly into the sleeves. Joan stood by, confused with the strange drama she had so suddenly found herself a part of, and yet there was something.... "IT was thinking," she said, staring at the child in her quaint coat and cap, and then at the man, "that — that perhaps, you, too, have lost the star!" He looked at her with sort of a quizzical weariness. For a moment he hesitated, and then he walked to the door, holding Mitzie's hand. He turned then, with a half-bitter smile flicking the corners of his mouth. "Mitzie's mother died," he said, "seven years ago on Christmas Eve, the night Mitzie was born." They went out the door, then, into the mist. Mitzie turned slightly, and, for 4 brief moment, looked at Joan with a half-pleading, sad eXpression on her tear-streaked face. And then the door closed on them and the snowy night, and they were gone. For a time Joan stood staring at the door. What a paradox! She had come two thousand miles here to find something that was to be peace and serenity, joy and thanksgiving. Instead, she had met Jonely little girl and a man, bitter and miles away from his own child, a child who wished for a Christmas tree on which to hang the Jesus star. Suddenly an idea came surging over her, like a light, along the path of old memoriesWhy not make a Christmas for Mitzie! A huge sparkling tree with candles and popcorn and paper chains! The old brown box! Where was it! And the star, the silver star with the tinsel and beads! Mitzie's star! Burning with excitement, she raced from one corner of the old house to the other, digging in closets and cupboards and drawers until she found the box in the cubby hole at the top of the stairs. With her heart drumming at her ribs, she lugged it down the stairs to the middle of the old parlor floor before the fire. How she cried over each golden treasure, unwinding long chains of paper and_ tinsel, bright cherub, laughing with delight at the glass birds and the tinkling bells. Happily she gazed over the room, mentally setting UP the tree, hanging it with splendor. Her eyes rested for a second on the old organ, and she rushed to it and sat down on the worn velvet bench. From THE LOST STAR one old carol to another she sang while a tender peace settled about her. She came to the words, "Star of the East, oh, Bethlehem Star." Her fingers paused. Her foot ceased to pump the old bellows. The Star! The Star that meant losing yourself for others. Yes; it was the star that she had lost! But she had found it! She leaned her head down on the ivory keys and wept tears of sweet release. So, all the next day she worked and listened for the knock that would She refused to accept the possibility that she would not be able to come. But noon passed and the wind came up, blowing the loose snow ito drifts. She saw it through the window, piling along the fence beyond the apple trees. She went outside and let the wind whip at her, trying to imagine in which direction Mitzie could live. The early winter dusk was settling. There was not time to wait longer. She must call a taxi. She had barely retraced her steps into the house and reached the phone when the knock came. With her heart racing in anticipation, she hurried to the door. But it was not Mitzie. It was Mitzie's father, standing there in the blowing snow, with the bitter lines on his face, tightened. "[m sorry, he said, "to bother you again. But Mitzie slipped away while I was gone. You see I let Mrs. Piney 8° home this morning, and I just realized today that she had done nothing about Mitzie's Christmas." He looked away into the snow. "T have never been ! Id & quick] We must find her. It is Much too hasn't Worrying you a ut the colq Where can look?" Star again. He can't seem to get a It out of her Mind." SO Cit was a hopeless task, Wading Was the only through the fields in Place she could be. | Was sure " Joan felt ]; i d face €ach oth: 'nto the room a dhe eo "We ould cal] the police from Stared in amazement. Your home. T is nearer than Mine," "It was for Mitzie," She said. "Th he said. Star at the top of the tree. Jt; er star Wind, hey saw / > 4, too, had lost Itzie Standing there. She was te star, lost It in a whir] of parties 8azing at the Silver star at the top and night clubs, and making mon_ of the tree. Ey, and friends who didn't kn Ww they came y+ Shing forward true Values, and. " She Paused sha turned to hem, her face alight and wiped the tears from her eyes. Wit rapture, completely unaware "Mitzie helpe me find it And of the anxiety sh ha Caused Wanted her to have it, too, a rea] " Ook!" she cried, "The far! I hay, Christmas Such as she h never found the Jesus Star! It IS on th nown." top of your tree!" "Yes, Mitzie, darling " her father Sur dropped into the rocker an said in p nitent tones, as he gent] Put her head On the acy doily of took the sand pail fro her hand the arm and wept and set jt the He stood meekly before her holdt Ing his hat " e el, °4n reached for the other hand t adequate father " t is the star we had al] three Jost child eye, had. Ave let my Mitzie. But uly it jg Only the Own selfish 8tief deny her both faPicture of jt. He real] Jesus star is er and mother." "Fy esitated. Ji, People's hearts," "Las night J kept thinking of what "And we will keep it there for. You said about my losing the star ever," Mitzie's father Said. Nd I realized you were Tight, so 7 hen he Walked to the doorwa let Mrs. Piney 8° home fo, Christand taking the Sprig of mistletoe mas, and | €cided to Make Mitzie from j " he Carried it back to han a real Christmas " it from danglin Joan Was Wiping her eyes 8 Christmas bell ' OVer their heads.