EAR HUGGERS ARE NICE Figure 2 Now, starting from one end of the 16-inch line, draw a rounded line curving up from the end to the center mark (Figure 2). Make another rounded line from the center mark to the other end of the 16-inch line. To be sure it is the same as the first curved line, it would be best to fold the paper in half and check. Seam along top, joining front and back sections Figure 3 You will now have a semicircle with the base 16 inches long, and four inches through at the widest part (Figure 3). You will need two of these semi-circle pieces, one for the back of the hat and one for the front. Figure 4 Make four small darts in the back piece on the straight edge to shape the back of the head (Figure 4). The two center darts should be two inches long and about % inch deep, two outside darts, one inch long and \% inch deep. The darts should be about 34 inch apart. How to make seam: Machine stitch the two pieces (front and back pieces) together along the rounded edge, then stitch the trim all around the straight edges. Now make the two ties and stitch one to each end. The ties can be yarn, braided, or bias tape, or a string made of the same material the hat is made from. To trim the hat, you can make it as simple or as fancy as you wish. Just a single row of rickrack does nicely, or you can use lace, angora yarn, several rows of metallic trim, or even a leftover piece of fur. Part IV-Dried Beans Marion Bennion, Ph. D. Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Morris, Ph. D. Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University Dried beans and peas have been old friends to many homemakers for years. They have found them a bargain — an inexpensive source of protein, calories, B vitamins, and iron. The addition of a little meat or cheese to bean dishes makes the protein even better quality. The water lost in the ripening and drying of beans must be replaced in soaking and cooking and this process has required hours of time. In this day of busy time schedules the modern homemaker has sometimes found this inconvenient. However, at the present time there are many short cuts which may be used to decrease the time required in preparation. A rapid method of soaking beans is to start by boiling them in water to cover for two minutes, removing from heat and letting covered pan stand one hour. The beans are then ready to cook in the water used for soaking. When hard water only is available the cooking time may be reduced by adding a small amount of baking soda to the soaking water. Do not use more than % tsp. Baking soda per pint of water. Larger amounts will cause the beans to be soft and mushy and will reduce the nutritive value. For one cup of small red or pinto beans, use about 3 cups of soaking water. After soaking add one tsp. Salt and boil gently about two hours. The use of a pressure saucepan for cooking at 15 lb. Pressure after soaking will reduce cooking time to 5-10 minutes. If a pressure saucepan is used only 2 cups of water are required in the soaking process and no soda should be added. If the beans tend to form a great deal of foam during cooking, a tablespoon of drippings or other fat added to the cooking water should prevent this. After the beans have been cooked they may be used in a variety of dishes. Dry Bean Recipes SAVORY BEANS AND MEAT BALLS 1 lb. Ground beef 14, c. Finely cut onion 22 ¢. Evaporated milk 24 c. Bread crumbs 114 tsp. Salt \% tsp. Chili powder Y& tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Shortening 14 c. Finely cut onion 2 c. Baked beans 14, c. Catsup 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 14 tsp. Dry mustard Mix meat well with onion, milk, bread crumbs, and seasoning. Wet hands and shape into 12 balls. Brown meat balls in shortening and finely cut onion. Spoon off any drippings around meat balls in skillet. Add mixture of baked beans, catsup, brown sugar, and mustard. Cover and cook over low heat for 10 minutes. Makes 4 servings. BAKED BEANS 2 cups pinto or other dried beans 14, pound salt pork 1 medium onion 1 tsp. Salt 14 c. Molasses % tsp. Dry mustard 1 tbsp. Sugar Wash beans and discard imperfect ones. Cover with 6 cups of water, boil 2 minutes, cover and soak 1 hour before cooking. Cook in soaking water until tender, about 2 hours, covered. During last 45 minutes of cooking add salt pork. Drain and pour beans and salt pork into baking pan. Bring drained liquid to boiling point and add salt, molasses, mustard, and _ sugar. Pour mixture over beans and add enough more water to cover beans. Cover pan and bake 3 hours at 300° F. Then uncover and bake % hour more. Serves 6. CHILI 2 tbsp. Bacon drippings Y% ¢c. Chopped onion 14 lb. Ground beef 214 c. Cooked dry beans % ¢. Minced pepper 2-214 cups canned tomatoes 1 bay leaf, crushed 2 tbsp. Sugar 3-5 tsp. Chili powder salt and pepper Brown onion in drippings. Add meat and cook slowly for a few minutes, stirring occasionally. Add remaining ingredients, season, and simmer until meat is tender and flavors are blended, about 30 minutes. Serves 4. BEANS AND BACON CASSEROLE 3 c. Cooked dry beans 1 c. Canned tomatoes 2 tbsp. Chopped green pepper 34, ce. Chopped onion 14 tsp. Salt 14 tsp. Chili powder garlic salt 4 strips bacon, fried, but not crisp Combine all ingredients except bacon. Turn into greased baking dish. Arrange bacon strips over top. Bake at 350° F. For 1 hour. Serves 4. 4] Delia Gleed's Hobby Is Making Gifts Dewi Bowcutt Gleed, Malad, Idaho, is so versatile and so busy with her needle and her crochet hook that she is known to Relief Society and to her fully cuts and sews. In addition to her duties as work meeting leader, Mrs. Gleed has served for many years as a faithful and beloved visiting teacher. Why would she do such a thing?" Ben demanded after Pixie and Tutu had left the room. "Why would my little daughter want to look like that!"' Luana smiled, wistfully. '""She's fifteen, darling," she said. '""Have you forgotten how it is to be fifteen? How you yearned to attract a special girl?" "T wouldn't have looked at a girl with hair like that!" he stormed. "Of course not,'' Luana agreed. "Pixie didn't want hair that color. She tried to be a honey-blond, and turned out to be an orange one." "Her own hair is_ pretty enough," he came back fiercely. "She's the cutest girl on the whole island. She looked like a little princess when she danced with Phil at the Gala Room." His voice was calmer. "I was so proud of them, Luana... Fine, upright children — natural as the sunshine."' "T know," she answered, ''but try to understand why she did it, Ben. There is a boy she wants to notice her. He is attracted to a pretty blond." "Then he isn't the right boy for her," he interrupted. "She can attract her own kind in her own way. She is pretty enough." Luana nodded, but her eyes did not quite agree with him. "Yes her own shade of hair is best for her. It is for any girl. But we must help her in other ways, darling. She must have braces on her teeth this year." Ben paced back and _ forth across the room. At last he stopped before Luana. "Do you think I haven't thought of that?" he questioned. "We'll get the braces, if I have to sell the plantation to the corporation." "No — not that!"' Luana said. "This plantation is our home. I don't want you to work under pressure. I want to live here always. I want to make our living here." Ben bent his head. He was quiet for a moment. When he looked at her again, his eyes were steady and confident. "We'll get along," he said. ""We always do, sweetheart. I'll talk to Pixie now." Luana touched his cheek. "Be gentle with her. She loves you dearly and wants to please you." His brows puckered together, thoughtfully. "T want to say something that will make her realize that it's not the color of her hair that wins love — it's what she radiates — it's what she really is." "She needs to know that," Luana said, ''but now — we must do something about her hair. We could take her to a good beauty salon." "Could they change it to her own color?" he asked, hopefully. "T think so. They retouch it some way, but it's expensive," she added. "It won't break us," he smiled, "but she needs a lesson. Something that will remind her that mistakes cost money sometimes." "How about making her pay for it out of her baby-sitting money? She has been saving for a camping trip." "That's it!"' Ben said. "'Call the beauty salon and see if they can take her right away. I'll drive her there. I don't want anyone to see her with hair like that!" THE twins were up at five o'clock on their birthday. They came romping to Luana's and Ben's bedroom, their ruddy faces glowing with joy. "Look, Mama," Benjy whispered, snuggling his face against hers. '""'We're thirteen, Mama. Are you awake?" "Yes, dear," Luana answered, as she pulled Bo down beside her, too. "Happy birthday, my darlings." "Can we start on the picnic early?" Bo asked. ''We told Sam Henri and Hiki and all the others we invited that we would start at six." Luana sat up. "Well! That is early. You boys take your swim right away. Then you can help with the lunch. Let's see — we decided on peanut butter and coconut sandwiches and big red apples...." "And tuna sandwiches, too," Bo added. "And bananas and grapes so Toki can eat, too," Benjy said. "That's right," Luana agreed. "Toki is part of our family now. We'll need a big jug of poi and potato chips." "And one of our birthday cakes," Bo chimed in. "'We have two cakes, Mama." "Yes — we'll have the other one for our family. You remember that Daddy likes our family dinner after party guests have gone home." "Are we having a luau, too, Mama?" Bo wanted to know. "Not a real luau," she explained. "Our pig will be roasted in the roaster — not cooked under the ground on hot coals." "Oh, sure," he laughed. "TI remember."' "Y wonder what I'll get for my birthday?" Benjy mused out loud. Bo looked at him, disdainfully. "Come on, dopey!" he yelled as he dashed toward the lagoon. Luana watched them as they ran through the sky-blue jacarandas and the brilliant pink flowers that were opening their petals in the early sunshine. Everything is so fresh and alive, she thought. She drew a long breath, loving the fragrance of the flowery, sweet-smelling morning. She could see the dazzling blue sky and the bright blue water of the lagoon reflecting the great white cotton-puff clouds drifting lazily against the sun. This was her own picture of paradise, she told herself with a long rapturous sigh. This was morning on the Pacific, on the long blue swells that washed the shores of the Hawaiian Islands. Midnight, moonlight, and bluevelvet twilight were equally entrancing, she thought, remembering that she had chosen early dawn for her own painting. That is when the wind kisses the waves and they linger breathlessly for that kiss. She had named _ her painting "Kiss of the Wind." It was more than a title. It meant her love for all that was dear to her — for all that Hawaii had given to her — her family, her home, her friends. "Thank you, dear Heavenly Father," she murmured as she turned from the window and hurried to the kitchen. KISS OF THE WIND By six o'clock they were ready for the drive to the rolling hills only three miles away. It was an ideal place for a picnic, with a broad valley view. Philip led the party in his own jeep. Benjy and Bo were with him. Ben followed, with the rest of the family in the station wagon. They were to meet their guests at the valley-top. When they arrived at Hill Slope, they parked their cars beside the fields of yellow poppies. Margaret stood _ entranced. "Such color!" she exclaimed. "It is an artist's duty to give this glory to the world!" "Tt is indeed!"' Tutu said. "Each place seems lovelier than the last one," Margaret went on. "T can't decide which to choose. But I must do so soon." "There's a good view of Haleakala, the world's largest extinct volcano," Ben told her. "There — to your right." "Oh, yes! It must be thousands of feet to the rim," she said. "Ten thousand,"' Ben answered. "We will take you there before you leave. But now — let's picnic!" Soft cool air floated over them as they started up the valley. "What long grass!' Margaret called out. ''And so green!" Benjy and Bo were far up the valley with their young friends. Luana could hear them laughing and whistling to each other. When she heard a loud whooping and yelling, she knew they had reached the first big hau tree — one that would be just right for climbing and swinging. When the rest of them reached the big tree, the children were completely hidden in its tangled, leafy branches. They climbed like monkeys, laughing and calling to each other until they reached the _ tiptop branches. Then each of them straddled a long limber branch and came swooping down with a wild yell that echoed across the valley. "Try it, Aunt Margaret!" Benjy came running to her after he landed on the grass. '""Mama did once. It doesn't hurt. Does it, Mama?" Luana laughed. "Once is enough!" she said. "That's a good sport for sturdy boys. Not ladies. Let Aunt Margaret wait until we make our slide. That's thrilling enough for girls." "It sure is," Emma Lu spoke up. "I haven't done anything that crazy for three years." "Let me take Toki up the tree, Emma Lu," Benjy coaxed. "He'll like it." "He's happy right here on my shoulder," she said. ''He might get lost in those branches." "Yes — he might,' Benjy agreed with a reluctant shrug. "He sure might." A\FTER the second ride in the hau tree they started up the trail again. As they walked along, each gathered ti leaves. They were long shiny leaves that grew close to the ground. Ben, who was walking ahead of the others, called back that he had found a place for the slide. He was standing near a smooth grassy hillside with an incline 46 that was not too steep. "That's a sissy slide," Bo protested. "This is steep enough," Ben insisted. "And not too steep for Tutu." He looked meaningly at his twin boys. "We must remember that it was Tutu who taught us how to slide this way. When she was younger she could take the steeper slides. Now she needs an easy, gentle slope like this. I'll go first, to smooth the grass. Then we'll let Tutu slide after me, because they go faster as each one goes down. Phil — help me carry Tutu." They crossed hands and made a carriage for Tutu. She put an arm around each of their shoulders, and off they went up the hillside. When they reached the top of the hill, Ben sat down on his ti leaves. He pulled the long stalks up in front of him. Then he moved himself forward until he began to slide down the hillside through the tall, wet grass. He waited at the bottom of the hill so he could catch Tutu. "That was fun!" she laughed. "Try it, Margaret. It's getting slicker now." Margaret's ride was faster than Tutu's. A little wet pool of mud was forming at the bottom of the slide. By the time it was Luana's turn, the grass was packed down and very slippery. "Slick as a ski hill!" Luana laughed as Ben caught her at the bottom. "Your turn, Emma Lu." "Not me! The Mainland has made a sissy out of me," she called out. gled Banner," and tears glistened in Margaret's eyes as she looked from one face to another, Hawaiian, Japanese, Filipino, Chinese, and Haole. "Such devotion,' she murmured. ''All Americans," Luana answered. "They know all five verses. Listen!" As the sun turned coral in the west, they went happily homeward. Philip led the way. They were still singing as they rode down the valley road. Gaity colored lanterns were lighted in the garden, where the table was set for the birthday cake. There were thirteen candles for each boy. Family presents were piled high on _ two little tables beside the big one. Benjy jumped for joy when he saw his new steel guitar. He gave everyone a hug and a kiss. But Bo was very quiet as he unwrapped his large painting set. Luana, watching him closely, wanted him to be pleased with it. She hoped he would understand that they had given him an expensive set because they appreciated his talent and wanted him to develop it. His fingers moved across the pallet, then he carefully lifted each tube of paint and each box of crayons. He felt the quality of the drawing paper. At last he looked at Luana and Ben and his blue eyes were luminous. "Thanks," he said in a quiet voice. "How did you know I. Wanted this?" "We know what you need," Luana answered. 'You have a wonderful talent, Bo. We are so glad you are pleased with your present." "It's — the — greatest!" he said with a kind of rapture in his eyes. "Anybody home?" a_ strong, manly voice called from the lanai. Everyone turned to greet Elder Farnsworth, the branch _president. He was a tall, slender, kindly man with gray hair streaked by the sun. His dark eyes were deep set and sincere. Everyone in the branch loved him dearly. He had an understanding heart and seemed able to discern what troubled people without questioning them. "Happy birthday, boys," he said, smiling at Benjy and Bo. "I'm not really an uninvited guest. Your brother Philip invited me." "T surely did!" Philip said, coming forward to stand beside Elder Farnsworth. "I thought this would be a good time to tell my family, when we're all together. You see, Mother and Dad," his eyes met theirs, "I have been asked about going on a mission. Elder Farnsworth has come to talk to you about it." L. UANA was not sure how she got through the next half hour. She was gracious and cordial to Elder Farnsworth. She was humbly grateful that Philip was worthy to be called, but, later, she lay in bed wide-eyed and sleepless. Where was the money coming from to send Philip on his mission? Ben slept restlessly beside her. She slipped out of bed without disturbing him. She would go to her lagoon where she had always gone to think and pray when she needed help. It was one of those Hawaiian nights with a_ great, lustrous pearly moon that turned the white sand into glistening crystal. A soft, feathery wind rippled the blue velvet waves in enchanting rhythm. No one could see this lagoon in the moonlight and not yearn to see it again and again and again. | Her heart beat up into her throat! There, on the beach, was a woman sitting before an easel, painting a picture of her lagoon. It was Margaret! Luana stood in stunned silence as she realized that Margaret, too, had decided that this particular place would make a perfect painting for the contest. The white sand was cold beneath Luana's feet. She shivered, although the night was warm. Covering her face with her hands, she tried to hold back the resentment that almost choked her. She was ashamed of the thoughts that tumbled through her mind. KISS OF THE WIND Margaret did not need the money from the contest the way Luana needed it. She did not have a teenage girl who needed to have her teeth straightened; no daughter who must have a _ pretty wedding; no son who had been called on a mission; no twin boys who needed lessons in art and music. Margaret's husband was a successful business man, and Margaret's paintings had sold for large sums of money. Didn't Margaret realize that Ben was striving to hold on to this plantation? Why, oh, why, Luana asked herself with a sob, did this contest mean so much to Margaret? Why did she work so desperately now in the middle of the night? Quietly Luana knelt on the sandy beach, lifting her heart in prayer. She asked her Heavenly Father to free her from selfishness and resentment and cruel jealousy of Margaret. Her heart cried out in remorse. She could not bear to feel this way. Her Heavenly Father must know that she was not asking to win the contest for herself, but only for her husband and her children. (