WORK MEETING Ti. E Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 15 — Planning the Family Wardrobe Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, . Objective: To help each family member feel well dressed regardless of family income. Mioruer,. I need a dress for next Saturday night, and there is a lovely one in the shop window that I'd like to buy. May I have it?" Are you ever confronted with such problems? If so, what is the wisest thing to do? 'To say yes, and try to adjust other expenditures through the month, or does such a question cause you to stop and think and wonder how you can do some intelligent planning to avoid such emergency calls? I hope the latter is the case, because wardrobe planning is the theme for this discussion. Many people spend too much for clothes and still "have nothing to wear." The percentage of the family income spent for clothing may be as low as five per cent and go as high as twenty-five per cent, but the amount spent does not alone determine how well dressed the family will be. People sometimes buy clothing because it looks well on the model in the shop window, because of sales persuasion, because of high style, because they think it a bargain, or because they need it immediately and have no time to look further. Such unwise ways of spending the clothes budget do not bring the satisfaction possible where buying is done according to a_ previous plan. Cowper described the results of such buying thus: Dress drains our cellar dry And keeps our larder lean; puts out our fires And introduces hunger, frost, and woe, Where peace and hospitality might reign. But apparel oft proclaims the man, so you had better have a carefully worked out plan. A full larder and tranquility will be your reward, and you will have the consciousness that everyone in the family is well dressed. How do you start? Here is the first step: go through every closet and drawer that contains clothing to be sure you know what each member of the family has. 'The older members of the family might help in this by going through theirs with you. Sort the contents as you look them over in three piles. Keep those that are in good condition that will be worn and enjoyed. Put aside those which would be worn if they were mended or dyed or re modeled. Box for disposal the mistakes, the misfits, those which will never be worn again which can be given away with profit. Step number two: have a notebook, write the name of each person in the family, allowing sufficient space to list each person's needs. Make three divisions for each (1) Sunday best, (2) everyday, (3) special; what you have and what you need. It will then be easy to list what each person has that is usable, and the process of sorting and listing will suggest possible needs for the year ahead. Step number three: have a family council and discuss your plan, stressing these items: a. A Sunday outfit is important for every individual in the family. Psychologically, one is more likely to act his best if he looks his best, and surely one should be at his best on the Lord's Day. Check your list and see what the family can do to get in condition for Sunday wear and decide what is needed for the year ahead. B. Appropriate daytime clothes for school or work are essential. One can forget about how he looks if he knows he is appropriately dressed and can then concentrate on his work. Drip-dry shirts and blouses, easy-to-care-for skirts and trousers, and no-iron underwear lighten the task of caring for these clothes and should be a major consideration in planning for the year ahead. C. Sportswear and clothes for special occasions are important, but come third on the list and should not swallow up most of the budget. A swimsuit for one, tennis outht for another, a cub scout or party dress for others are examples. Special interests determine what should be included. D. Where the money will come from and the amount that can be allocated for clothing require careful study. How LESSON DEPARTMENT much money will be needed for the year ahead? Make an estimate. What can each do to help get what is needed? Here is a splendid opportunity to encourage initiative in earning and in learning how to make and care for clothing. Step number four: learn the basic rules for thrifty shopping. 1. Shop with a list; buy only the items planned for; know what you want, and don't depend on a saleslady to tell you what to get. 2. Have a color plan, a basic color could be decided upon for each family member. 'Then, whatever is purchased can be coordinated in various combinations. 3. Buy at the end of the season, and get what you need at a fraction of the cost paid by early-season shoppers. 4. Look for good-quality fabrics and simple, beautiful lines that will bring satisfaction. 5. Learn to sew and make your own clothes; a clever woman with a needle and thread can stretch the budget twice the distance. Perhaps most important of all, the homemaker must become clothes conscious to know how clothes can lift the soul, if they are flattering in line and scale and texture. And don't forget color. Just because a woman is advancing in years doesn't mean that she should shift into neutral. Color is important for all ages. The homemaker by her own appearance can set the example. By taking stock of herself she can encourage family members to take stock of themselves. An attractive mother in a well-kept home can set the tone for high family morale. Careful wardrobe planning can be of inestimable help in this, as well as in balancing the budget.