[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 890 | Special Feature | Service Hugh | B. Brown]
The howling wind made the tall old house rock and creak. It came down the _ stovepipe blowing puffs of smoke into the room from the big pot-bellied 'stove. The windows were rattling, and Mama was stuffing rags into the cracks to hold back the snow. I ran to her and held onto her skirt. Sternly she told me to let go so she could move around. She stopped for. A minute, scraped frost from the _ glass pane, looked out, then started to cry. Mama cried a lot these cold winter days. Papa said she was just homesick, but I knew better, for I heard them talking after they put me to bed. "There's no use in staying in this God-forsaken place,' Mama said, "now that you have sold the cattle, we can go back to Southern Utah, and live like other people!" "I am not leaving the land I took in as part payment on the cattle," Papa said, "besides Canada is a coming country, already the land is fast being taken by homesteaders." 894 " Lila L. Sau I did not know what a Godforsaken, place was, or what homesteaders were, but I thought it must have something to do with all the snow and ice piling up outside, and something terrible - would happen to us as it did to the people in the Bible, when God did not like them. It was dark when Papa and the boys came in, stomping the snow from their. Boots and clothes. Mama lit the lamp, and started supper.: "Is it time to put the nails in the wall for the stockings?" I asked Mama. "Yes, get your brothers to put them in behind the kitchen stove, so the things Santa puts in them won't freeze," Mama said looking at Papa. "Do you think Santa Claus can get through the deep snow?" I whispered to my big brother. "Sure," he said, "Mr. Taylor at the post office says he always gets through. Sometimes the mailman brings things for him." I ran to get the stockings, and started hanging them on the nails, but as I reached far over to the last nail my hand slipped and I touched the back of the hot stove. I let out a scream. Papa picked me up, and started soothing me.