[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 900 | General Feature | Editorial— The 139th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church | ]
[Editorial— The 139th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church]

Number 12 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 898 Editorial Twelve. Words of appreciation and abiding love for Elder John Longden, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who passed away in August, were expressed by General Authorities and by many others who missed the presence of a beloved leader and inspired counselor. In his opening address, delivered by his son Robert R. McKay, President David O. McKay spoke of the astronauts and their journey into the realms of outer space, saying ''Members of the Church have always known through revelation of the numberless creations of God."'. Although God has created the universe and all therein, ''man is the jewel of God." This is just another way of saying that the earth was created for man and not man for the earth. God gave to man part of his divinity. He gave man the power of choice, and no other creature in the world has it. So he placed upon the individual the obligation of conducting himself as an eternal being. You cannot think of any greater gift that could come to a man or woman than the freedom of choice. You alone are responsible, and by wielding and exercising that freedom of choice, you grow in character, you grow in intelligence, you approach divinity, and eventually may achieve that high exaltation. That is a great obligation. Very few people appreciate it. The roads are clearly marked—one offering animal existence, the other life abundant. In his closing address, read by his son Robert, President McKay expressed his love for the saints in all the world, admonishing them to righteousness, and testifying of his own great faith:! Wish to emphasize the fact that this great conference has testified to the hundreds of thousands listening in from all over the world that God lives, and furthermore that Jesus is his Beloved Son, the Savior of the world. We have also testified to the world that man is not living for himself, that his selfish desires should be overcome and controlled, and that he should render service to others I am grateful for and pray that God will continue to direct and bless our General Authorities who have inspired us with their messages during the sessions of this great conference. Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen G. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore 899 Seated at the harp: Renee Sheranian Goates; standing, front center (in dark dress): Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, conductor; standing back of Sister Barnes, soloists: Melva Niles Barborka and Linda Hallett; seated at the piano: Jacqueline Young, accompanist. Singing Mothers of Los Angeles Area to Present Christmas Program Over National Broadcasting Corporation Radio On Monday evening, December 22, 1969 at 7:05 P. M.