[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 920 | General Feature | A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy . . ., Edythe K. Watson; | K. Watson]
ROBERTS (continued on page 935, with illustrations) 918 I A Thing Of Beauty Is a Joy Candles of Elegance Edythe K. Watson, Member, General Board of Relief Society C0 Relief Society women are ingenious. Show them a thing of beauty and lo! With their own magic hands they can create its likeness. Since variety is a necessary requisite of any worthy Relief Society project, they change and add, putting a new detail here and color there, enhancing and beautifying most every object. Such it was with the candlesticks made by the sisters of Valley View Eighth Ward, Valley View Stake, under the direction of Sister Janet G. Ogden. Each one was different in color and design, and each was decorated by the sisters to blend and add charm to the decor of the different homes. The tall, more ornate candlesticks were designed for use in the living room or family room areas. The shorter, smaller ones were planned to grace a dining room or kitchen table. A variety of finishes was used. Some were painted with a flat paint and finished with an antique glaze. The smaller ones were covered with enamel paint; the large ringed candles were stained in walnut finish with an antique glaze added. Flowers, fruits, greens, and ribbons were used to decorate them. Some of the sisters made their own candles where a particular color and size was needed.

Everyone was so de- (continued on page 933) These handsome candlesticks, above, stained with walnut, were made by Margaret Arnold. The small ones were painted with colored enamel. Janet G. Ogden finished these candlea Dien ~ __ — sticks at the left with an antique TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS glaze.

933 December 1969

 WORKING WITH KNIT FABRICS (continued from page 925) folds of the tubing, pinning carefully, and cut out. This materia] must be handled carefully so as not to stretch it. MYRENE ALVORD'S "NO-KNIT" AFGHAN o1aaads Tassels for Afghan Cut cardboard according to length of tassel. Wrap yarn around length of cardboard about 35 times. Double string twice, making 4 strands. Do not cut. Put strands, under yarn-ends, through double loop as slipknot. Remove cardboard. Slip pencil under knot. Bring cut ends under pencil and wrap around tassel 4 times. Tie securely. Remove pencil and cut 2nds of tassel. CUO A UU UU AT ts AAT TAD ULEAD PLEX ET YVIVYATIIYYELITYY YOYITITYIIYEYE YY YTV TEE ALD Naa eGR baa RLETLINAA ELEN) OO YY Ve) COLE TTT! Celebrating Christmas Without Going Into Debt CELEBRATING CHRISTMAS WITHOUT GOING INTO DEBT (continued from page 918) Finding the names of people who might not have a pleasant Christmas, and sharing with them, has brought unspeakable joy and insight to our family. Time after time my children have demonstrated unselfishness, and have put other people's happiness before their own desires. Such times make a parent's heart burst with pride. To develop fully a child's imagination, toys should be interchangeable. Therefore, a truck should not look too much like a truck. It should quickly convert to a bus, fire engine, moving van, or any other four-wheeled conveyance. With this in mind, Tom, my husband, has built ride-in box carts that have served every imaginable purpose. He has cut blocks in all sizes and shapes, built work benches, bulletin boards, and other household accessories. My contributions include stuffed animals, rag dolls, bean bag toys, special dresses or costumes, hand puppets, and similar items. Our children's accomplishments show real imagination, and they improve continually. Celebrating Christmas this way means burning the midnight oil every night for weeks. It means tolerating horrible messes from cookie decorating, salt clay, and other projects. Projects are in various stages of completion and must be stored everywhere. Boxes of scraps, spools, detergent and bleach bottles, pop bottle caps, and numerous other things are stacked high in storage, awaiting time for construction. The ironing doesn't always get done, and the house seems to be in utter chaos, and Christmas morning finds us physically exhausted, but spiritually refreshed. We strive to remember the true meaning of Christmas, and to give thanks for the birth of the Savior, together, as a family united. Eos HOMEMADE DOLL TREE (color picture on page 917) Picture below shows detail of doll costumes JM. Heslop Delila Burgess Eagar, Eagar Ward, St. Johns Stake, Arizona, has won blue ribbons for her quilts, rugs, crocheted tablecloths, doilies, stuffed toys, pillows, and pillowslips. Her greatest concern is keeping her hands busy. Sister Eagar designs her own quilts, and has donated countless numbers to Relief Society. Her six children, twelve grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren are recipients of many lovely articles; while her relatives who came before her are benefiting from the countless hours she spends on genealogy and temple work. Sister Eagar has served as Relief Society president, on the stake board, as a class leader - for most of the classes, as a secretary, and a visiting teacher, as well as in responsible positions in other auxiliaries of the Church. Fe. 7 Bt oe and Se Vera King, Price Sixth Ward, North Carbon Stake, Utah, is adept at all kinds of handiwork. Her quilts and aprons are the most popular bazaar items. She is an inspiration to all, for she is never idle. She designs quilts which delight her seven children, twenty grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren, and her many friends. She couldn't even begin to count the number of quilts she has completed. In Relief Society Sister King has served as a counselor and as a visiting teacher. She is always on hand to help at any task which might be undertaken in the ward, and her attendance at Relief Society is regular and enthusiastic. 937 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 102— Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions— Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 OBJECTIVE: As the Latter-day Saint woman gains a greater testimony that the Doctrine and Covenants was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration, she seeks to conform her life to its teachings. INTRODUCTION The Doctrine and Covenants gives direction to the fulfilling of the Lord's promises unto the ancient prophets. The importance of this book in the plan of salvation was given at the November 1831, conference of the Church, in the following words of the Prophet Joseph Smith:... Being the foundation of the Church in these last days, and a benefit to the world, showing that the key