[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 918 | General Feature | Christmas Trees; | Christmas Trees]
Warren  Woods  home,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Christmas  Tree 
With  Radiant  Boughs 
d  For  this  graceful  Christmas  tree  a 
branch  from  a  garden  shrub  was  used 
as  a  foundation  for  the  decorative 
feature.  The  surplus  small  twigs  were 
removed  from  the  branch  and  green 
leaves  from  an  orange  tree  were  at- 
tached with  green  florist's  wire.  The 
decorative  satin  balls  in  predominating 
colors  of  purple  and  fuchsia  were  also 
attached  with  wire,  and  the  small  lights 
added.  This  arrangement  is  particularly 
appropriate  in  a  home  where  floor  space 
is  limited. 
A  Tree  Decorated 
With  Yellow  Flowers 
□  The  tree  was  sprayed  white  and  the 
large  flowers,  made  of  crepe  paper 
or  tissue  paper,  were  attached  with 
florist's  wire.  A  few  blue-green  satin 
balls  were  interspersed  among  the  white 
boughs.  Sister  Christensen  who  trimmed 
this  attractive  tree  formerly  lived  in 
Parleys  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  is 
now  a  resident  of  Frankfurt,  Germany. 
Trimmed  by  Alice  Christensen 
Displayed  at  a  homemaking  exhibit 
Relief  Society  Annual  General  Conference 
TRANSPARENCIES  BY  J  M.   HESLOP 
916 

'i^'ii 
.^  \ 
•3, A 
^ 
Z.C.M.I.  AISLE  OF  CHRISTMAS  TREES       COURTESY  HAROLD  H.   BENNETT,   PRESIDENT 
TRANSPARENCY  BY  J  M.   HESLC 
Poinsettia  Tree 
D  Soft  candlelight  and  deep  red  poinsettias  make  this  tree  a  decorative  work  of 
art.  The  beauty  of  the  Christmas  flower  and  the  symbolism  of  the  candlelight  bring 
the  radiant  Christmas  season  into  a  delightfully  original  portrait  of  "a  tree  with 
trimmings." 
917 

Celebrating 
Christmas 
Without  Going  Into 
Debt 
Mary  E.  Bergman 
D  In  the  early  years  of  our  mar- 
riage the  available  money  for 
Christmas  expenditures  was  scarce. 
After  listening  to  friends  expound 
on  the  pitfalls  of  charge  accounts 
that  would  take  months  to  pay 
off,  lavish  gifts  to  children  that 
seldom  pleased  them  for  more  than 
a  few  weeks,  and  fancy  holiday 
parties,  I  realized  that  it  would 
be  most  advantageous  to  fall 
back  on  my  own  resources. 
Often,  the  innocence  of  child- 
hood can  be  changed  into  selfish- 
ness by  parents  who  are  unable  to 
withstand  the  onslaught  of  hard- 
sell tactics  emj>loyed  at  Christ- 
mas time.  Our  gifts  to  Cathy  that 
year  totaled  an  expenditure  of 
fifty-nine  cents,  but  required  hours 
of  time  and  preparation.  She  was 
delighted,  and  her  enjoyment  of 
our  homemade  toys  led  me  to  be- 
lieve that  I  had  stumbled  on  a 
precious  secret. 
Throughout  the  years,  my 
children  and  I  have  learned  to- 
gether the  satisfaction  of  counters 
filled  with  delicious  home-baked 
goodies.  Amid  the  pleasant  aromas 
in  our  home,  we  stitched  "God 
Bless  Our  Home"  samplers,  for 
each  adult  on  our  list,  and  we  made 
stuffed  toys  of  all  varieties  for  the 
children,  and  a  boxful  to  be  sent 
to  the  Primary  Children's  Hos- 
pital. 
For  the  entire  holiday  season,  we  become  absorbed  in  sewing,  gluing,  baking, 
molding  salt  clay,  painting,  building,  and  so  on.  Mark,  being  a  normal  energetic  boy, 
doesn't  always  adapt  to  these  quiet  occupations.  One  afternoon  while  Cathy  and  I 
were  engrossed  in  a  project,  I  gave  Mark  a  bowl  of  vegetables  to  chop  for  homemade 
soup  that  was  bubbling  on  the  stove.  He  was  fascinated  by  the  process  of  putting  raw 
materials  into  the  kettle  and  afterward  being  able  to  savor  the  taste  of  the  resulting 
soup.  Thereafter  he  became  the  official  soup  maker,  starting  from  scratch  and  doing 
the  entire  project  himself.  We  poured  this  soup  into  decorated  quart  jars  to  be  de- 
livered to  various  people. 
{continued  on  page  935,  with  illustrations) 
TRANSPARENCY  BY  DOROTHY  J.  ROBERTS 
918
