I want to thank you for the wonderful Magazine, and especially for the July and August issues. It has been some months since we had a Magazine since coming to the Canal Zone, and then we received two in one day. The poems in them by Hazel Loomis were especially dear to me because she is my cousin, and we have not seen each other in such a long time. I feel as if we have had a good visit (''By Handcart Came''—July Frontispiece; ''Patch Quilt,'' August 1969, page 589). The gospel is here, and the sisters are especially good to us. Ora M. Welch, Pacific Branch, Canal Zone Today my August Magazine came—but so did two little chidren to play with my own daughter while their mothers helped with our ward project. Three children between one and two years of age keep me hopping. Somehow I was able to fit the three completely different schedules into one—and now they are all napping.! Picked up the Magazine, and the editorial ''Leisure for Oneself,'' by Marianne C. Sharp, really hit the spot—a couple of hours of leisure time, well deserved and much needed. Thanks for ail that The Relief Society Magazine stands for. Kenon King, Van Nuys, California Thanks so much for the wonderful Magazine. It helped me through many a lonely time when I was single. It contains beautiful stories that can uplift the soul of a lonely soldier far from home. Thanks again for the wonderful sisters of Relief Society. Sgt. Brent Boehme, Denver, Colorado I would like to thank my Aunt Millie Halladay and her family for sending me the lovely Relief Society Magazine. She recently passed away and is greatly missed by all who knew her, but the Magazine she left us is precious. It is the only link we have with our beloved Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We live too far away to attend any ward or branch. I love the dear poems of Bertha A. Kleinman whom I had the privilege of meeting in person in my home town—Mesa, Arizona. We appreciate the Magazine so much that we study it from cover to cover. Clella Roseberry Lewis, Fruitvale, Texas I am thankful that I have been a member of the Relief Society for fifty-one years. I used to read the Magazine before I married. When I married in January 1918, my husband's mother was the president of the Heyburn, Idaho, Ward Relief Society. We subscribed for the Magazine so that I could enjoy its teachings. We were blessed with eleven children, seven of whom are still living. I am thankful for the poems and lessons and the beautiful message of the gospel truths published in the Magazine. Olive Christensen Warner, Declo, Idaho The Magazine is a magnificent testimony builder—and! Am now referring to the marvelous lessons that have been prepared for us all. I have been very fortunate to have been a spiritual living class leader for eight years, so I am familiar with these lessons. Marilyn Hershberger, Soldatna, Alaska I was so happy to receive the September Magazine. My health prevents me from attending Relief Society meetings as I would like to do, and so the Magazine has become ''my home Relief Society.' My daughters are three and one and a half. One of my most pleasant times is when three-year-old hops on the bed so that I can read the Magazine to her. We talk about the pictures and the stories and sometimes share the poems. I especially enjoyed the lovely color section in the September Magazine. Ann Allen, Richland, Washington 882 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints ©1969
Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76