[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 952 | General Feature | Social Relations— A Position of Honor | Alberta H. Christensen]
ing amazing likenesses of family and friends. At eleven he was accepted into the Royal Academy as its youngest student and was later elected to membership. Early in his career as an artist he and several friends formed a group known as Pre-Raphaelites, who set principles of painting somewhat contrary to the accepted manner of painting of the time. They believed art should be based upon and be true to nature and represent sincere expression of sincere beliefs and adhere to the gospel of thoroughness. As a result, Millais' work was full of detail, yet there was nothing harsh. The details were absorbed in the whole truth without detracting from the complete, satisfying beauty of the canvas. As is so often the case, he was severely criticized by the critics of his time. His most enduring work, "The Blind Girl," has proved to be one for which he was most condemned. One said, ""We must protest against sweet, lollipop colours, raw green fields, and lace-up boots ostentaciously large."

[Social Relations— A Position of Honor Alberta H. Christensen]

In Millais' time, he was a revolutionist and it is chiefly because of his revolutionary works that he lives today.... 952 INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS A woman may live in a particular neighborhood without identifying with it, but her most casual act of service to that neighborhood—if no more than soliciting the block in which she lives in behalf of a philanthropic fund —gives coherence and _ special meaning to an area and often helps set an attitude toward the larger whole of which her neighborhood is part. We can't serve and remain totally unconcerned —as anyone knows who has tried to recruit volunteers to canvas for worthy causes—however, it is difficult to find prospective helpers whose vision of their contribution is not bounded by the walls of their house and the fences of their yard. This is not to question the priority of home. But it does suggest that seeing one's home in context can prepare one to be more effective in every sense; for the happy, developing family is part of a neighborhood, a city, a country. The opening selections in this section on service, therefore, focus on an expanded view of the individual. "SONG OF MYSELF'' BY WALT WHITMAN In volume two of Out of the Best Books we presented two poems by Walt Whitman and a brief biographical sketch. The stanzas we include in this section are from the work which is most characteristic of him—Leaves of Grass. What Whitman has to Say to most of us in this poem is not to be afraid to enjoy life and to expand that capacity to its _fulness. Lesson Department Only if we are keenly alive to that going on about us will we be able to serve at our highest capacity. In the final section which we reprint from Whitman's "Song of Myself," he stresses the insights which recognition of our common humanity can bring to us: These are really the thoughts of all men in all ages and lands, they are not original with me, If they are not yours as much as mine they are nothing, or next to nothing, If they are not the riddle and the untying of the riddle they are nothing, If they are not just as close as they are distant they are nothing. This is the grass that grows wherever the land is and the water is, This the common air that bathes the globe. "TO FIGHT ALOUD" BY EMILY DICKINSON Whitman's identification with everything—both good and bad— needs the corrective of Emily Dickinson's_ discipline in "To Fight Aloud." To fight aloud is very brave, But gallanter, I know, Who charge within the bosom, The cavalry of woe. Who win, and nations do not see, Who fall, and none observe, Whose dying eyes no country Regards with Patriot Love. We trust, in plumed procession, For such the angels go, Rank after rank, with even feet And uniforms of snow. For someone committed to the gospel, Whitman's total identification is not sufficiently discriminating. We need to be aware of the world that surrounds us, but we are not content to accept its degradation as well as its exaltation. Awareness should not imply justification. 

953 December 1969

 Miss Dickinson's poem is a fine example of discriminating awareness in considering human potential. She suggests that only if our view of ourself transcends earthly concerns are we ready to see our divine possibilities. ""A WREATH FOR MISS TOTTEN" BY HORTENSE CALISHER In "A Wreath for Miss Totten" we encounter the selflessness which "To Fight Aloud" praised. This story may have a school setting but it is not so much a story of education as it is a revelation of that capacity and determination to help young people grow that distinguishes those who truly teach, whether in the school or the home. As the writer of this touching story recalls, there was little, if any, recognition of the total effort Miss Totten was expending for Mooley Davis. Perhaps the principal was sensitive to the result of her labor, but few of the children seemed lastingly impressed. The writer is not at all sure that Mooley herself attended Miss Totten's furneral. The fact that her actions did have a permanent effect on at least one of her students, who was only indirectly involved, has little relevance to the actions themselves. Miss Totten wasn't working for recognition; one has the feeling that she didn't expect gratitude. Service, for her, was as natural as breathing and as little thought about. Question for Discussion If, as the scriptures tell us, we find our lives in losing them, how might Miss Totten have found hers? 954 "CONCORD HYMN" BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON A monument to the Minute Men who fought the British troops at Concord in 1775 was set up in the middle 1830's on a piece of land which had been presented to the town by one of Ralph Waldo Emerson's forbears. Although Emerson himself could not be present for the dedication of the monument on the Fourth of July, 1837, the hymn he had composed for the event was sung by a choir to the tune of "Old Hundred." Although this poem has been so widely reprinted that its opening stanza is one of the best known in American poetry, its final lines are almost forgotten. It needs to be seen in its entirety if it is to be fully appreciated: By the rude bridge that arched the flood, Their flag to April's breeze unfurled, Here once the embattled farmers stood And fired the shot heard round the world. The foe long since in silence slept; Alike the conqueror silent sleeps; And Time the ruined bridge has swept Down the dark stream which seaward creeps. On this green bank, by this soft stream, We set today a votive stone; That memory may their deed redeem, When, like our sires, our sons are gone. Spirit, that made those heroes dare To die, and leave their children free, Bid Time and Nature gently spare The shaft we raise to them and thee. The shot was not "heard round the world" because a few loosely organized men engaged in a skirmish with those they thought of as oppressors. History is full of defiant deeds in support of causes, and the Colonists in America appear to have been under the mildest of yokes. It is the attitude of those who were willing to die that Emerson would have us remember. In mutually shared devotion to principles which seemed to them to be violated, they ceased being Colonists and became Americans. Note, in the final stanza, that the memorial is not simply to the men who die or to the circumstances surrounding their sacrifice; it is also to the "spirit" which prompted them to serve their country nobly. Question for Discussion How might the same "spirit" Emerson talks of prompt us to serve our country today? "AIRMAN'S LETTER" Among the personal belongings of a young Royal Air Force pilot in a bomber squadron, who was killed in execution of his duty, was a letter to his mother, to be sent to her if he were killed. The letter was sent to the bereaved mother by the young officer's station commander, who asked for permission to publish it anonymously. The permission was granted. The anonymous "Airman's Letter" is a more current example of the dedication Emerson discusses in "Concord Hymn." At a time when clamorous voices are being raised against the draft of young men to serve their country, the clear, comCOMMUNICATION Lesson Department mitted voice of this British airman is reassuring. "MOTHER OF COMPTONS" BY MILTON 'S. MAYER "THE STORY OF JEPHTHAH'S DAUGHTER''—Judges, Chapter 11. The final two selections in this section, "Mother of Comptons" and "The Story of Jephthah's Daughter," illustrate lives given over to Christian service. Mrs. Compton is explicit in citing the Bible as the source of the direction she' and her husband provided for their children. The nameless daughter of Jephthah simply takes for granted the sacredness of her father's promise to the Lord. Mrs. Compton is not playing at being a wife and mother; and she is not viewing her roles here so narrowly that she cannot be an inspiration whenever she needs to be. Jephthah's daughter would like to be a mother in Israel but she is quite prepared to accept the role that her father has imposed on her. In the totality of their commitment, both Mrs. Compton and Jephthah's daughter face the consequences of their belief with confidence and serenity. Question for discussion 1. Mrs. Compton lives for what she believes. 2. Jephthah's daughter dies for what she accepts. 3. What are the special problems which each type of service requires? When stress and strain are rife, And harsh words would be easiest to say, Replace taut lines of doubt or bitterness, With quiet threads of thoughtful understanding.