[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 914 | General Feature | Christmas Time Thoughts, Marcella H. Morely; | ]
[Christmas Time Thoughts, Marcella H. Morely;]

There was no mistaking the stars in her eyes, nor the love in his. Barbara, Jennefer, Heidi, and Carol and their husbands, aided by all the children who were still on their feet, were retrieving tissue paper from Rosemary's room, where the gifts had been unwrapped, and were on the patio putting the gifts away. "Let's check on your father," said Mary Ann. The supper tray was still on the little table beside his bed, untouched, and Kim's father was on the floor, where he had obviously fallen in an effort to reach the bathroom, because he had been nauseated. Kim was terrified. "My father is dying!" he said. (To be concluded) Sil December 1969 912 Christraas Tune hOUghES Today as I sit in a warm, comfortable home that God has given me. I look out across our valley. Beautiful white snow covers all with its frosty coverlet, Having fallen last evening, Making everything a white fairyland. Looking to the east, I see the church spire, beautiful and tall, Reaching toward God. Inviting us to reach also, and find him, Ever willing to help us in our upward climb. Beyond the spire to the east, the magnificent Wasatch Mountains, Rising in their stately beauty and majesty, Standing tall as protecting warriors, overlooking our lovely valley. As I turn my gaze westward, I find the guarding Oquirrhs, With their array of towers and blinking lights As ever present as those on the east. Surrounded by nature's barriers, our valley is serene and wonderful Filled with loving friends and neighbors Who feel the love of Christ in their hearts and homes. We are thankful for the Christmas season, the beautiful lights, trees, and carols, Reminding us again of the light brought into this world By the birth of Jesus Christ. May we ever feel the warmth and security of peaceful homes in a beautiful valley And be able to feel this love for others Expressed in the celebration of Christmas. —Marcella H. Morley TANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL. Ls not a soul at this time as precious unto God as a soul will be at the time of his coming? Is it not as necessary that the plan of redemption should be made known unto this people as well as unto their children? Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send his angel to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as after the time of his coming? (Alma 39:17-19.) Z. C. M.1. AISLE OF CHRISTMAS TREES COURTESY HAROLD H. BENNETT, PRESIDENT TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Tree Popcorn CA popular favorite with the children, this tree is decorated in the best of pioneer traditions with garlands of popcorn draped artistically—gleaming white against the dark branches. Old-fashioned doll replicas add to the festive mood of the season. TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Homemade Doll Tree C) From the 1968 Homemaking Display at the Relief Society Annual General Conference. (See close-up, page 936.) The dolls on this tree are simple to make from pasteboard cartons and scraps of material. This delightful display was prepared by Highland Stake Relief Society Board, Eva K. Sipkema, President. Warren Woods Jomage; Salt Lake City, Utah Christmas Tree With Radiant Boughs C) For this graceful Christmas tree a branch from a garden shrub was used as a foundation for the decorative feature. The surplus small twigs were removed from the branch and green leaves from an orange tree were attached with green florist's wire. The decorative satin balls in predominating colors of purple and fuchsia were also attached with wire, and the small lights added. This arrangement is particularly appropriate in a home where floor space is limited. A Tree Decorated With Yellow Flowers CJ The tree was sprayed white and the large flowers, made of crepe paper or tissue paper, were attached with florist's wire. A few blue-green satin balls were interspersed among the white boughs. Sister Christensen who trimmed this attractive tree formerly lived in Parleys Stake, Salt Lake City, and is now a resident of Frankfurt, Germany. Trimmed by Alice Christensen Displayed at a homemaking exhibit Relief Society Annual General Conference TRANSPARENCIES BY J M. HESLOP 916 Z. C. M. I.