[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 904 | General Feature | A Season of Christmas, Ruth C. Ikerman; | C. Ikerman]
In my heart is the light of hope and fellowship generated by this season of Christmas, and silently I say a prayer that its beauty may remain with me through all the routine busy days of the year ahead. 903 Oe < Petunias F iy HOWePS,: at Sa Helen Hinckley Jones ® Whenever I go to bed Rrticuatly tired or fi am locked behind a hi th my reach. This dream un of one I don't need to ask a psy@hologist what the dream I first started to pro against fences when ot mother's parents in Provo, Utah. When Vera and Be off together, leaving me to suffer the pangs of the across the front of Grandfa s house and garden see as the stockades that protecte settlers from the Indians. I must ha stood why I was left behind. What use grown-up nine and t have for a six-year-old tag-along? Ye That is the way I remember that Proveswisit. V Bob never got on their way without hearing Mother's swe for Helen." Anyway I still have this dream and I rouse myself to think of my Grandfather Cheever and the day we talked about petunias. Grandfather had an amazing garden, but the flowers in it were not for picking. Children could look at the blossoms, smell them, enjoy them, but never pick them. No one ever took the trouble to explain to us children that Grandfather was a nurseryman and that the beautiful flowers yielded seeds only when they were left on the vine, so we thought Grandfather liked flowers more than people and that he was, perhaps, just a. Little bit selfish. One day Grandfather found me shaking the gate with all my strength and crying. He gave me a grayish peppermint from his pocket and invited me to walk with him in the garden. This was an unusual invitation. Grandfather was very old, at least he seemed so to me. When I heard the Bible stories about Noah and Methuselah I always thought of Grandfather. I knew that he had been older than was usual on the frontier when he married my grandmother and Mother was their tenth child. I thought he didn't like children, but perhaps that was wrong because once before when I had been left behind he had asked me if I could count to a hundred. I had already learned the system. I could count into the billions and trillions. As I remember it, he begged me to stop counting before I got even to a thousand. This day he suggested a walk in the garden before I could say, "Nine hundred and ninety-nine." We walked down a row of radiant snapdragons. Carefully he pinched off one little face and holding it between his thumb and forefinger he showed me how it could open and close its mouth. "Let's pick some," I suggested hopefully, and his answer was just a shake of his head. He pointed with his cane and we moved over to the cinnamon pinks—I can still smell them. In another part of the garden I admired the stock and the phlox. I don't know at what point in our walk I began to beg constantly to be allowed to pick at least one flower. Perhaps I had been tempted by the peonies which Grandfather raised mostly for funerals, or by the sticky stemmed moss roses. Ear-olds embe that she and voice calling, "Wait 904 ur Visit was Over. He went Into the house to Sit in his favorite Platform rocker with the Crocheted antimacassay I went back to My vigil] by the front gate.

That Second choices are "petunias" and that they are flowers, too. So I've gone through life Picking flowers and quite a few of them have Wonderfy] daughters! Each of them has brought me a 8TOWn-up son that I didn't have the Fesponsibility of rearing; and One of them Shares with me three Chapter 7 @ No man likes to antagonize his employer, but Kim was in a cold rage at Mr. Shelton's coming to his home and offering to buy Kim's father's beloved family homestead in Utah. "IT told you Dad's place was not for sale, Mr. Shelton." "So you did," said Mr. Shelton, ignoring the flashing anger in Kim's eyes. "I figured if I talked to the real owner we might do business. I'm prepared to offer twelve thousand, sight unseen, just from your description of the property." "I wasn't describing it for sale. It is not for sale," repeated Kim. "Why don't you let me talk to your father about it?" said Mr. Shelton. "There's no need to," said Kim's father with dignity. "The place is not for sale, has never 906 BS SS Py os * \ FOR HOME Alice Morrey Bailey been. If Kim hasn't, if Kim didn't want to—" He looked at Kim and was reassured by the expression on his son's face. "The place is not for sale," he finished. "Sorry," said Mr. Shelton. "No offense meant. I really want that place, though, from your son's description, and if you change your mind." "Dad won't change his mind," said Kim ominously, with finality. After Mr. Shelton had gone Kim's father continued to think about the offer. "Are you sure, Kim? Why do I cling onto my possessions? I can't live much longer, and I can't work any more. If I sold the place I could divide the money and give each of you children your share of the inheritance." "None of us has a share of inheritance, Dad. An inheritance is something left from one who dies, and you are not dead. None of us knows previously the date of his death. When we had the accident I thought for a moment it was mine—and Tommy's. You could easily live ten or even fifteen more years, so now let us not talk of inheritances."