[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 906 | Fiction | Mama and the Magic Bag | Lila L Smith]
[Mama and the Magic Bag Lila L Smith]
Time picked up momentum as the weeks passed. Mary Ann, beleaguered with wedding plans, had little time to worry about her father-in-law beyond his meals and clean clothes, and nobody else did. He said little and dodged the ladders and paint buckets along with the rest of them. Swarms of young people came and went, Rosemary's bridesmaids and their friends, Cary's young men friends. The refrigerator door banged constantly as stores of food disappeared like butter on hot corn. Heart Room for Home "Like Grand Central Station," grumbled Kim. 'When it's over I'll hibernate," promised Mary Ann. "The more I think of Dad's cool place in the summer the more I long to be there." As if there wasn't enough to do, getting the house cleaned, the sewing done, the wedding lists made out, the garden ready— for Rosemary had decided to have her reception there, with windlamps reflected in the pool— Tommy approached her to type his thesis. "You're a good typist, Mom. How about it? It would save the money and it is only sixty-five pages. There is a rush on it because the Dean has asked me to present it as a paper at the symposium and I want it to do double duty." She was opening her mouth to say she couldn't possibly when she remembered that Rosemary had taken most of her time. It was only fair that Tommy have some of it. The thesis turned out to be seventy-five pages done in practically a non-stop marathon, painstaking work, tables, graphs, and charts, but among the families he used as case histories to support his title "The Place of the: Aged in Today's Society," their own stood out. His grandfather was etched sharp as a diamond—his independent concepts: "No, I never took steps to build social security; I don't believe in milking the Government," and "No, I don't believe in insurance companies. It seems too much like trying to get something for nothing. I put my money in the bank and those in- 

909 December 1969

 surance fellows can do the same. That way we're both ahead." His impact on the family was there—Rosemary's right-about face from dependence to independence, Tommy's own, even the change of Mary Ann from a fashionable working woman to a homemaker, and Kim's emergence as the real head of the household. All because they had brought Kim's father to live with them instead of selling his beloved homestead and putting him in a home for the aged. Tommy was fair. He showed how this might not work for some families. He outlined his parents' dilemma— the unfinished payments on the mortgage, the upkeep of a too large home when the children were gone. Tommy offered no solution, and Mary Ann wished he would. He was merely the scientific observer, and said it would be interesting to see the drama played out to the end, with a satisfactory solution for them all, or failure, and that it deserved further study. There was no time to think of either alternative just now, but both hovered over Kim and Mary Ann like dark-winged birds. The thesis was done and approved barely in time for Tommy's flight to Washington and the symposium, where he made a brilliant presentation of his paper, according to the Dean. It would be published in the fall and included in the Society's Proceedings of the Thirty-Fifth Annual Symposium. The newspapers picked it up as a "Revolutionary Solution to the Care of the Aged," and featured Hite "About as revolutionary as 910 Methuselah," drily. Several offers of professorships at various colleges came of it, and Tommy was invited to submit a proposal to a scientific foundation for a sizeable grant to support further research on it. Lizbeth was at the airport to meet him and she looked at him with respect. Mary Ann noted she was not wearing her engagement ring. This was just an interlude, for they went back to the bridal showers for Rosemary given by her friends, the trousseau tea at the Freeman home, with the excited female relatives, and some of the male ones, coming and going, then exclaiming over her matched outfits of clothing, her linens and_ silver, everything beautiful for a bride. Her ivory white satin wedding dress was sheathed in her closet, her accompanying temple _ clothing pressed and packed into a small white case. Rosemary, with her mother's help, had not missed a detail to make her wedding perfect. It was Rosemary who drew the family's attention to her grandfather. "IT. Don't remember hearing him speak a word in three weeks," she said. '""And he looks sad and frail. I so wanted him at my wedding, but not if it will be too much for him. Grandpa's all right, isn't he?" Her father looked suddenly frightened, and guilt swept over Mary Ann. There was no doubt she had neglected her father-incommented Kim law in the excitement and hubbub in the last few weeks, doing only what was necessary for him and leaving the rest to Kim. But Kim had been kept on the run from the minute he got home until he could no longer see, fixing up the place for the wedding.