[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 901 | General Feature | Singing Mothers of Los Angeles Area to Present Christmas Program Over National | Broadcasting Radio]
Eastern Standard Time, the Singing Mothers of the Los Angeles area will present the half hour "Voices of Christmas," program sponsored by the National Broadcasting Company. Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society will conduct the Singing Mothers from Los Angeles, South Los Angeles, Santa Monica, Inglewood, and Huntington Park Stakes, assisted by Renee Sheranian Goates, harpist, and Melva Niles Barborka and Linda Hallett soprano soloists, with Jacqueline Young as accompanist. Eight Christmas songs will be presented, including "Silent Night," "It Came Upon a Midnight Clear,' and "O Holy Night." Relief Society women throughout the Church, and thousands of other listeners who have radio broadcasting available through NBC or its affiliates, will thus have an opportunity to hear representative Singing Mothers offering "The Voices of Christmas" over a wide network at a time of special remembrance and observance of a sacred season. SED TEED \ g) 3 i; SS Mrs. Shirley Temple Black, former famous and beloved child actress of moving pictures, has been appointed one of the ten United States delegates to the United Nations General Assembly. She will specialize in environmental and _ social problems, particularly air pollution and water problems, and on an earnest effort to further peace and human brotherhood. Miss Carolyn Dunn, a member of the Sunday School General Board of the Church, has been named director of Consumers and Customers Services for Armour Company, the large meat-packing organization of Chicago. She has been an associate professor of foods and nutrition for the Utah State University, and also a newspaper columnist, with, in addition, a daily television program. Miss Eileen Roberta Donovan, one of two United States women ambassadors, took up her post as envoy to Barbados recently. She was consul-general in the country 1960-55, then spent four years as director of the State Department's Office of Caribbean Affairs before her ambassadorial appointment. The only other present U. S. Woman ambassador is Carol Laise, the envoy to Nepal. Tatzumbie DuPea, a Piute Indian born in Lone Pine, California, recently celebrated her 120th birthday and was congratulated by President Nixon and many California Officials. She is thought to be the oldest woman in the United States and has been truthfully called the oldest Californian, the oldest actress, and the oldest mother. Her Piute name means ''Beautiful Star."' She has spent more than thirty years in the ''movies'' and is a veteran of some forty films..

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Antoinette Concello has been a circus performer since 1929 when she joined a flying trapeze act. She retired for a time when her son was young, but now that he is in law school, she has reinvested her valuable experience to further the future of the circus and now serves Barnum and Bailey Circus as director of the aerial ballet. Women Pilots in the United States number seventy who hold air transport ratings from the Federal Aviation Administration.