[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 960 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

**Working With Knit Fabrics** *Myrene T. Alvord*

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Available on the market today are lovely knit fabrics for home sewing. Knit fabrics can be purchased by the tube or the yard. Many are like sweater material, although made by machine. Knowing a few tricks in handling these materials can open up a whole new world of fashion.

One of the professional touches you can add to your outfit is to edge it with embroidery and/or crocheting. To be most effective, this should be done from the same yarn as your sweater is knit from. To do this, you must unravel yarn from your tube, which requires patience and know-how.

Most knit tubes are made from four separate strands of wool or yarn, each of which has been machine locked. These must be unraveled into four separate balls. Never cut the tubing to unravel the yarn. At the top of most tubes (not the ribbing end) there is a rough edge which you must pick through before you reach the regular yarn. After this top edge has been carefully picked off, unravel one strand all around the tube and lay the small ball aside. Pick up the next until you have four small balls of yarn. Then pick up the first ball and repeat this process until you have enough yarn for the work you wish to do.
*(continued on page 934)*

TRANSPARENCY BY J. M. HESLOP

925

Something Different
For Your Home

Arrangements by
Florence G. Williams

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

□ The covers for these delightful pillows were crocheted by Kate Schleiicher. Sister Williams thought up the idea of applying the brightly colorful figures of yarn. These made delightful Christmas gifts for her grandchildren.

□ A lovely arrangement of petunias in a Sèvres (a rare French) bowl graced the piano of the Williams home at Christmastime. The gold angel and scented candle symbolized the season. Such arrangements can be made easily by purchasing a certain product from a floral shop, putting it in the bottom of the vase or bowl, soaking it with water, and arranging the flowers to suit one's taste.

□ A delightful arrangement of wheat and nuts graced the door of the lovely Gilbert Williams home in Salt Lake City, Utah, at Thanksgiving time. The squirrels are handmade of wood and were a gift to Sister Florence Williams. She gathered the wheat and purchased the nuts.

TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Center, as Lucia, Carol Wiberg.
Among the other singers: Marianne Brattos; Jean Brattos; Dianne Carlson; Marianne Bryggman; Anna Neilson; Kristina Neilson; Monica Ouzoumian; Sonya Ouzoumian; De-Ann Wood.

Swedish Lucia Queen and Attendants

□ Each year in the Swedish Branch of the Church in Salt Lake City, Utah, the Lucia festival is held. In Sweden this is known as Little Christmas, and is held on the 13th of December, the longest night of the year in Scandinavia. Lucia means Festival of Light, and is symbolic of the triumph over darkness. The Lucia Queen is the Queen of Light, and spreads cheer and light throughout the villages, with the help of her attendants.

The candles are of course symbolic, and this crown is imported from Sweden. Part of the festival includes a parade through the building, and lovely music. Following the celebration, there are refreshments and a visit from Saint Nicholas.

927

Swedish Cookery
For Christmas

Darlene C. Dedelund Member,
General Board of Relief Society

[PHOTOGRAPH]

A typical Swedish holiday meal would be aptly termed a feast. Many varieties of seafood make up the first course. This is followed by baked ham and red cabbage, which is followed by meat balls and various kinds of cheeses. The main course of the meal is Lutfisk, a traditional Swedish dish served with potatoes and a white sauce. Lutfisk is available in package form in many import stores.

Rice pudding is the popular dessert for such a feast, and there are several interesting customs surrounding it. Among these is that one almond is included in the recipe, and the person who gets this will be married within the year. This person is not to tell

MODEL NANCY ANN JOHANSSON

TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS

928
