[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Rays of Science in the Home]

THE RAYS OF SCIENCE IN THE HOME. Amy Lyman Merrill, Superintendent Practice Home, Utah Agricultural College. The glorious light that appeared on earth in 1820 shed its rays in all directions. The whole world has felt its sweet, comforting, and powerful influence. Science in its numerous aspects has been influenced profoundly. The hidden laws of nature have been discovered and all mankind has enjoyed the resulting benefits. Woman's work and home problems have been illuminated by the rays of science the past hundred years just as truly as have man's work and problems. And that is proper, for God designed woman as the partner, not the servant, of man. Prior to the appearance of the redeeming light of the gospel women were considered to be on a plane inferior to that of man and were so treated. This condition still prevails most among the peoples of the world least affected by the gospel light. Consider the results of the penetrating rays of science upon women and the home since that light appeared. The doors of colleges and universities have been opened to them;  they have delved into the scientific problems of the home and have solved many of them;  the proper training of their children has been carefully studied;  the health of the family and the proper sanitation of the home have received attention;  what to eat and how to prepare it are now known better than ever before;  labor saving devices for the home have been invented in great numbers;  home comforts and conveniences have battled with home drudgery and have won;  and finally on every hand in the homes throughout the land are seen growing joys and greater appreciation of the dignity and importance of woman's work in the world. Because of the great light that appeared a century ago intelligence now walks upright where ignorance crawled before. And the womanhood of the world is correspondingly blessed. "Out of the darkness of the night, The world rolled into light. It is daybreak everywhere.