[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Blue Peaks of the Soul]

Blue Peaks of the Soul Ruth Moench Bell. "We'll have to get another car, Dudley." Mrs. Hunter spoke with a languid drawl, her latest imitation for her wealthy neighbor. "You want to travel about in a glass cage, eh, like the Brantley’s?" bitterness. Dudley Hunter spoke wearily and with some "Well, I do get tired of always playing second fiddle to Sara Brantley." "How about being first violin in an orchestra of your own," her husband suggested, as he drooped out of the house. His wife's voice,- charged with sarcasm, overtook him: "Well, anyway, I don't see why you can't make loads of money like Brantley does. I could be first violin then." Mrs. Hunter settled back in her new lounging chair and selecting a chocolate from a box, in an arm of the chair, and a magazine from the other arm, prepared to rest. "I know I shouldn't eat so many sweets," she deplored to herself, "and I ought to walk instead of resting so much, as the doctor suggested. Miriam complains all the time about my getting so fat and losing my. style. But it is so comfortable to rest. Walking is such an exertion." Mrs. Hunter pressed an electric button, also concealed in the arm of the chair, and an over-worked maid appeared. "Mary;  the Relief Society teachers are coming. I just saw them stop next door. Just say that I am not at home. I really do need a nap so I can go with Miriam to the hop tonight." The maid dismissed, Mrs. Hunter sat drowsily for a few minutes. She looked up presently, annoyed and somewhat startled. Somebody had entered the 'room. She had expressly told Mary to admit no one. "Oh, it's you, Dudley," she snapped as she caught sight of the intruder. He did not answer. She glanced at his face, and her heart stood still! "Why, whatever is the matter, Dudley?" she cried. Again he made no answer, but gazed at her steadily. Suddenly the voice of a crier down the street penetrated her ears. "Come out from her! Oh, my people! Lest ye partake of her ways!" Again Mrs. Hunter sought her husband's BLUE PEAKS OF THE SOUL 213 face. It was pale and no longer troubled but purposeful, spiritual. People did not cry such things on the streets in these modern days. What did it mean? "It means just this," her husband spoke as if she had asked him, "We must come out from Babylon, for we are partaking of her ways." "But where shall we go?" she asked as in a dream. "To a place the Lord has provided," he answered with conviction. "Wilier?" "We do not know. Into the wilderness, as the pioneers went of old." "But why?" "To worship God!" "Can't we worship him here?" ]Mrs. Hunter spoke with some of her former impatience. She was beginning to feel herself caught in a net. "For where your treasure is " "But we haven't any treasures," some bitterness crept into her tones, even on the way to those "blue peaks of the soul" toward which she had not lifted her eyes for so long. "True, as soon as we have possessed them, they no longer seem treasures," her husband answered. "I wonder if we will be able to sell to advantage," Mrs. Hunter reflected. "Are others going, too?" "It is a call of the soul that many have answered and many refused. We cannot wait to sell. We must go today." "Today? Dudley, you are mad?— — " she started to say but something in his exalted mood restrained her. She had been aware of the same exaltation of purpose when her boy, her only boy, had proclaimed his intention of going to war. The same mysterious something that stayed her then, kept her now from pronouncing it foolish and silly. "We are just to make a roll of bedding and take our camping outfit as we did when we went through the park?" she asked with misgivings. "A hand-cart will hold even less." "A hand-cart! Dudley!" "There are no automobile trails into this far country!" "We must pull a cart?" "As our fathers and mothers did!" "And the children, Miriam and Ted?" "They must choose for themselves. I am going to tell Ted now. I will leave Miriam to you." "If they choose not to go we must leave them behind?" 
 "We? I, alone, if need be!" He looked at her yearningly but with resignation. "No, Dudley, no!" And she flung her arms about his neck. "My place is by your side. I cannot leave you." She clung to him tenderly while the old -love grown suddenly a thousand times dearer, leaped into life. "Thank God!" he breathed as he pressed her to him. "Tell Miriam." Tell Miriam And he! was But gone. Miriam was not at home. She was shopping, trying to buy a wonderful new gown that would re-win for her the love of her sweetheart, who had lost interest in her since his return from war. It was a critical time for Miriam, and yet she must ask her to leave her lover and go with them. Mrs. Hunter went about the house first to select treasures to take. Then, as she remembered the size of the hand-cart, looking at the treasures she must leave. But were they treasures, these possessions that had cost so dearly. She lingered before the piano. She had sulked for days because the Brantley’s had a concert brand piano. Then came the strain of paying even for this smaller piano. How hard it had been to save out the money for payments! It was then that the resentment began to grow in her heart against her husband because he could not make money as fast as Brantley did. And now they must leave it behind! Not a cent of all the money that had gone into it would they recover! Money! Dudley had said that they were going to a country where money would avail them nothing. They must wrest their living from the elements as the pioneers had done. She stood before the electric washer. That, too, had cost, and cost dearly. It had been necessary for the maid. How could she, the mistress, do without it? Why, I can't even take a wash-board," she gasped. "I must scrub the clothes clean with a scrubbing brush. Surely there will be room for a scrubbing brush." Carpets, those luxurious rugs she had been unable to do without, she knew must be left. Not even a yard of linoleum could be taken. The electric stove would be of no use. They would have to cook over a camp fire. She passed on to her bed-room. A dainty crepe Duchene negligee lay carelessly over a chair. Negligee! Little time she would have to lounge about after her bath. Gracious, what would they have to bathe in! She looked through her expensive wardrobe. What had she that would be suitable to take with her? A black cotton BLUE PEAKS OF THE SOUL 215 voile looked hopeful. She had no house dresses. It had been years since she had done any work. Mrs. Hunter passed on to her dining-room. Fine china, silver, cut glass could not be taken. Porcelain or tin dishes would be necessary. The load would be heavy enough even then. She sat down to think. Was it really necessary to leave all this clutter just to worship God? It was characteristic of her new attitude toward material things that she classified "all this" as clutter. Her expression, "just to worship God," also showed how far she had strayed from spiritual things. Down on her knees she sank for guidance. There was a light step in the hall. The sound of a car stopping! The front door opened! Miriam seized a package from the delivery man and bore down on her mother. "See mother, see," she exclaimed, "isn't it exquisite?" A shimmering evening gown fluttered from Miriam's fingers, and her eyes danced in forced delight above it. A pang shot through the mother. She well knew Miriam's pathetic eagerness over the new party gown. But would it help to win back the affections of Ralph Brantley? And why was he disappointed in Mariam since his return from war? And now — this departure. Would William choose to accompany them, her heart yearning for Ralph or would she stay behind and leave them lonely forever? And how lonely they would be without her youthful, graceful presence! And her soul! For years nothing had been said in that household about God or religion. Sunday school was a chance to display new clothes or be with the crowd. Mutual was the same. Family prayers, tithing, Bible readings, had all been lost sight of in the rush and hurry and scramble for things to leave behind. Truly it was needful that they go, if eternity was to be aught to them but a hollow word. "Help us, Father," she sobbed aloud, "help us to come back to thy presence!" "Ida! Ida!" A voice interrupted her. She glanced up. She was in her lounging chair, and her husband was standing white and stricken before her. "Dudley," she cried, "I promised to go with you. What is the matter;  has Ted refused?" "Ted and Miriam are both going with us to help us to begin again. But you — who told you, Ida?" "Why, Dudley, you told me yourself not over an hour 
 ago. But where is the joy you felt then, the spiritual glow? We were going for our religion to worship God. And now you Her seem husband afraid." sank down on the seat beside her. "I don't know what you mean, Ida. Religion and God seem like words from a foreign language. But by some mysterious power you have dreamed a strange dream that may help you to bear what I have to tell. We have failed financially. Our home and business, all that we have, are gone. We have nothing left but the little two-roomed house outside of town where we began our married life, and the few acres that surround it. Your personal effects might bring enough to build an extra room for Miriam. Ted and I can sleep in a tent till we can make the land earn enough for a room for him." Before Mrs. Hunter could reply, there was an impetuous ringing of the door bell, and Ralph Brantley was ushered in. He had brought Miriam with him. And the expression on their faces left no doubt of their purpose. Ralph came straight to the point. "I want to ask you both for Miriam," he said, "if you think you can spare her. I don't know whether you can forgive my misunderstanding of you all since I got back. But home and everybody have been such a disappointment. I was getting so I was losing faith in women. Father is supposed to be an inexhaustible reservoir of cash for mother and the girls. That's all he amounts to in our home." Ralph looked at Miriam, and there was no doubt of his regard as The loved Miriam. continued: her too "I much felt I And couldn't be just asthat it seemed for if she was headed the same way as mother and the girls." "Over there in France I became a casual, and got forgotten for a while, except by some hospitable French families who invited me in for some real home evenings, music, some trifle to eat, cozy chats by the fireplace, with the whole family about. It was real home, even if the income was slight. The father was given a hearty welcome. Dad's welcome is just a demand for a check. It was all so homey and quiet some where there for not good one in a hurry time! The fussing good time around to get  there. was right o'" And when I met Miriam and she said goodbye, because you were all going into the back woods to get a fresh start, felt as if I couldn't be left out of it, so I'm going along  you don't mind." Mind! The mother looked at her daughter's happy fac At her son's, grown suddenly manly and resolute! At her BLUE PEAKS OF THE SOUL 217 husband's, quiet and relieved, now that the strain was over. She closed her eyes in gratitude while a vision arose before her, a vision of two dear little rooms and the river rolling by to remind them of the ceaseless flow of eternity! And the mountains, those "blue peaks of the soul" to point their way upward. "We shall all be so happy there," she murmured. "It will be so easy to leave all this that has been so costly and yet not precious! All this that has not even left us tender memories!" GLIMPSES FROM LIFE'S MOVIES. Mo rag (1) The Blessing. Tall, white hollyhocks bordered the path leading to a tiny vine-clad cottage in far away England. The windows were ablaze with scarlet and crimson of geranium, fuschia and begonia. The interior revealed a spotless living room with tiled floor, home-made rugs, old mahogany furniture, sparkling glass and pewter ware, with a grandfather clock ticking merrily in its corner. On the table, which was spread with a linen cloth, stood a plate of bread, two crystal clear goblets of water, and some books. A small girl on her way home from school running in to see her grandma, found her kneeling in prayer with two black-coated strangers, who seemed to be preachers. The child knelt and waited until the prayer ended, then all partook of the bread and water, following two brief prayers. Then the child was lifted on to the knee of the older man, who placed his hand on her head and blessed her. The words are forgotten but the child always remembered the spirit of the souch occasion, and also the benign countenance, the silvery hair, piercing eyes, and kindly voice of the man, whom she afterwards learned to know as Daniel H. Wells. (2) The Birth of a Soul. Within an upper room on a back street in a large city were assembled a small congregation of people to worship the Lord. With no organ or leader their singing sounded harsh and rough to the girl of fourteen who had strayed into their meeting. After the opening prayer the ordinance of bread and water was partaken of by most of those present, 
 awaking in the girl's mind, memories of that day long ago. A young man began to preach, and a wonderful thing happened. The upper room with its congregation vanished, and the girl stood alone on the edge of a vast plain which was filled with a huge concourse of people. On a slight eminence in the center of the plain stood a wonderful image with shining head of gold, breast and arms of silver, body and thighs of brass, legs of iron, and feet of iron and clay mingled. Then came a stone rolling down the mountain side, gaining force and momentum as it rolled, which smote the image, hurling it to the earth and ground it to powder, continued rolling until it seemed to fill all the plain, blotting out earth and sky. Then the voice of the inspired preacher, which seemed even as the voice of God himself, spoke and the vision of the image and the stone was explained, and to soul of the girl was born a testimony of the truth, which soon became a pearl of great price. (3) The Sacrifice. Time passed, and the maiden sought and found entrance into the true fold of Christ, through the doors of Faith, Repentance and Baptism. The gift of the Holy Ghost was followed by increased love of the truth, and a period of active service in the Church. Then a period of four years spent away from any branch of the Church, a time of trial, testing, when all the faith and courage of the girl were called to action. And then, one day a young woman of twenty years bade farewell to father and mother, brothers, sisters, home and loved ones, and embarked on a long voyage towards the west, where she hoped to find the body of her people, the Zion of God. Precious promises had been given which sustained her heart, lending courage and hope while passing through the many trying incidents of a most unfortunate voyage during which storms at sea, fire, broken machinery, and death, occurred, but the arm of the Lord was made bare in behalf of his people, and in due time they safely reached their desired haven. Here our heroine was made welcome in the home of God's people, and again His promises were fulfilled. In due time all her loved ones were welcome*! to Zion, and her joy in God's service was indeed made full. (4) The Temptation. A concert hall, a solo just completed, two professional appearing men approached the singer, with offers of coaching, training for her voice which, according to their flattering GLIMPSES FROM LIFE'S MOVIES 219 reports, contained wonderful possibilities. "I will train you not my studio," said one, as he rolled a cigarette, and my brother will give you lessons in elocution. You will have a wonderful future with your remarkable voice, and coaching. In return for our services," the girl listened eagerly, "you will come alone to our studio three times a v/eek for lessons, and you must promise to sing for our U-church every Sunday." A tempting offer, the girl found hard to resist, for she had been praying for opportunities which had been denied her in early youth, and here seemed an answer to her prayer. "I will consider your offer," she replied, "and will let you know in a few days, if I can accept it." The days which followed were indeed trying ones, as the flattering words of the professor rang through her mind, almost blotting out the voices of her little Sunday school children and her position as soloist of the ward choir suddenly seemed of little importance. But the good angel of the girl sang in triumph as she finally prayed to her Father: Choose thou my way. Oh, Father, thy will not mine be done. Her prayer ended, our heroine called at the studio of the professor, and was received with coldness and antipathy when his offer was rejected. The Reward. Reward came a few weeks later when a call to the Temple service was received and in her labors in that sacred house our heroine found joy and happiness. In service toward humanity, she has found peace. As a worker in the Church of Christ she has found her place, the poor and afflicted know the value of her voice, in humble places she is known and loved. She is rich, not in this world's goods, but in the love of her husband and children, who, in after years, may rise up and call her blessed.