[Vol12 | March 1925 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Infant Feeding]
Infant Feeding By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education
The problem of infant feeding is a complex one which not only demands careful consideration by the mother but also by the doctor in charge. Other factors being equal the breastfed baby stands a much better chance of maintaining normal rate of growth than does the bottle-fed baby. The death rate of bottlefed infants compared with breast-fed has been much greater than it is at present. In 1892 in Germany, Prof. Roch showed that modified milk increased mortality. In a study made in Leipsic in 1910 it was shown that children who nursed showed a death rate of one out of 13 at the end of 10 months. In the same study the death rate of bottle-fed babies was one to two.
Careful investigation has been carried on by pediatricians in all countries in the past fifteen years and the results of these studies have materially decreased the death rate of bottle fed infants. In attempts to obtain a liquid as much like the composition of mother's milk as possible a great many patented baby foods have flooded the market. When used over a short period of time some brands seemed to cause less distress than cow's milk, as they seemed to be more readily digested. While babies fed on these preparations often make satisfactory gains in weight, their resistance has been less than might be expected. In the light of recent experiments, the poor resistance probably resulted from lack of sufficient ash constituents, vitamines, and the right kind of proteins.
At the present time the tendency is to modify cow's milk so that it will closely correspond chemically, physically and physiologically with mother's milk. In-general terms of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, it is not considered very difficult to modify cow's milk so that it has these food classes in the same proportion as' in mother's milk. Some difficulty has been encountered in modifying the casein of the milk so that the curd will not be in too large pieces for ease of digestion. The most common prac-


tice for making a finer curd is to boil the milk one to three minutes, or rely on some device for making a finer coagulation by means of mechanical separation which is usually accomplished by using a thin barley or oatmeal gruel in the place of water. In addition to those listed above a very thin mixture of gelatine is sometimes used in place of water. Advocates of this addition not only claim that it makes digestion easier but they also maintain that the additional kind of protein which is easily digested is valuable for growth.
Notwithstanding the progress made in working out formulas for nursing infants the baby who is favored with a normal supply of mother's milk is indeed born under a lucky star. If he lives under satisfactory conditions as to cleanliness, warmth, air and sunshine and has regular meal times as well as long hours for rest, his chances should be satisfactory for a normal rate of growth.
In general terms the normal infant is expected to double the weight at birth at the end of six months and make this same additional gain at the end of the first year. Thus a seven pound baby should weigh fourteen pounds at 6 months and twenty-one pounds at the end of twelve months. This normal gain is probably the best index the average mother has of determining the health of her baby. It does not, however, tell the entire story as the baby must have firm flesh, muscles firm enough to be elastic, skin healthy color, bright eyes, glossy hair, quiet sleep, the right number of teeth for his age and good disposition. '
Careful attention, however, must be given the diet of the nursing mother if the baby is to maintain normal development. A nursing baby can not be properly nourished if the mother's diet is deficient in vitamines or ash over any considerable length of time. Delayed dentition may result if the mother's body has a low calcium or phosphorous balance. In order to safeguard the health of the child the nursing mother should live up-to the highest dietary standards. In brief, she should have one quart of milk a day, some root vegetables every day other than potatoes, some green leaf vegetables twice a day and uncooked fruit once a day in addition to the usual bread, butter, potatoes, etc.
Dr. Thorndyke's classic statement, "That the mother who weighs her baby least does not love it most" is worthy the attention of thinking mothers. Much worry on the part of the mother, and suffering, discomfort, and delay in growth on the part of the child might be avoided if mothers weighed their babies with some regularity before and after feeding them. This is especially necessary in the case of the breast fed baby as it will help the mother to determine some of the factors which mitigate against normal milk production. These factors frequently are eating too
FEEDING INFANTS 141
little food, too much extra work or worry which destroys the equanimity of mind so necessary for normal milk production.
