LESSON IV (Fourth Week in May) Social Service PROBLEM CHILDREN It is not an uncommon experience among families to be confronted with some behavior problem with the children. The problem may be that the child is failing in his school work, is truant 
 from school, is discovered taking money or property not belonging to him, or is asking for money from strangers on the street. It is a matter of real concern to families, school officials, probation officers, and social workers to decide what corrective measures to apply to unmanageable, wayward, and delinquent children. The subject of child behavior, however, has not been neglected by educators. On the contrary, the child and his educational development has been the object of study, research and experiment. This century has frequently been termed "the century of the child." During this period the emphasis of all educational and social programs has been placed on child development and protection. To insure his education, the state provides schools, makes attendance compulsory, and spends countless millions on an educational program. To protect his health, the schools, public clinics, and private agencies arrange for examinations and for needed medical care. To protect him from industrial exploitation, legislation has been enacted controlling the hours and nature of child labor. To protect him from deteriorating influences, and to check his own misconduct, the state provides juvenile courts, probation officers, and detention and corrective institutions. With such an extensive group program for child welfare, it would seem that all children would have a normal development. But like all group programs, there are individuals who are not reached by such organization. It is as necessary to 'fit the individual to the opportunity as it is to create the opportunity. The unusual child?the extremely bright child, the dull one, or the rowdy one?will not, without individual study and attention, adjust to a regimented, standardized, educational and social program arranged for the whole group. Only after a study of the problem child's makeup, his heredity, his environment, and all the factors that contribute to his difficulty, can intelligent, corrective measures be applied. The backward child is often misunderstood in the home and in the school. His backwardness is a source of annoyance to parents and teachers, so he frequently is forced to bear the burden, not only of his own lack of ability, but the added one of social disapproval. The result may be that he will become timid and shy, fearing to attempt even those things which are within his power, or he may become belligerent and spiteful as a result of the constant nagging and criticism to which he is subjected. To understand the backward child, a study should be made of the causes of his retardation. His backwardness may be a direct result of some physical handicap. Defective vision or hearing, of which he and his parents may be entirely unaware, may be the cause of his inability to keep pace with his school group. Diseased tonsils, enlarged adenoids, er some infection are in many cases the basis of retarded mental development. A malnourished child is likely to be listless and apathetic and his performance of his tasks at home and at school will be slow and unsatisfactory. Certain children with a glandular insufficiency who are sluggish and dull become active and alert after a period of medication. Too much emphasis cannot be placed on physical well-being, for the degree of health influences very directly the alertness, the endurance, and the character of the mental processes. There are, however, individuals who are in good health, who are slow and not very accurate at academic work. Nature has not endowed every one with the same or equal powers and abilities. The psychologists in recent years have made extensive studies of the nature of abilities and have devised tests for measuring ability and intelligence. The most commonly used tests at this time are the intelligence tests which measure native ability. The success of the performance of these tests is not influenced by the individual's education, but the tests are designed to classify persons according to their inborn ability. The person is classified as superior, normal, dull normal, or subnormal, according to the rating made. The subnormal is also reclassified making it possible for the psychologists to determine how much education is advisable, what type of employment the person should undertake, and if institutional care is necessary. But all difficult children are not either sick or backward. Healthy, bright children can be troublesome pupils, family bullies, and neighborhood terrors. The obvious explanation is that such conduct is the result of poor training, but it is not such a simple matter to determine in what respect the training has been faulty. A pampered child is likely to be demanding and troublesome, but children reared in homes where disciplinary measures are most strict and severe also get into trouble. Two children in the same family, treated in an identical manner, may act very differently, one having no difficulty at home or at school, and the other turning out to be the proverbial "black sheep." To understand behavior problems among children, it is necessary to realize that children are individuals just as much as are adults. No two children are alike, and no two will respond in exactly the same manner to the same set of experiences and similar environmental influences. Treating the child with as much respect and regard for his individuality as if he were an adult, is a rather new outlook for parents and school teachers to assume. It is on this basis, however, that constructive work with problem children is being applied. The child, because of his dependence and helplessness, has been made to conform to certain set forms of behavior. These forms have been designed by adults, embracing a theory of conduct which adults do not enforce upon themselves 
 very rigidly. The child is expected to be punctual, neat, clean, industrious, interested in whatever is put before him, fond' of the work which the adult gives him, ready to play only at the proper time, and prompt to leave that play, however crucial the moment, at the call of bed or mealtime. He is expected to be cheerful, obedient, respectful, free from outbursts of temper, jealousy, and selfishness at all times. In the child who is viewed objectively, and of whose conflicts the adult is entirely unconscious, lapses from this code are not understood and tolerated. The child's thwarted desires, his feeling of inferiority, his sense of frustration, are, however, often seriously upsetting, and will perhaps have an undesirable influence on his subsequent behavior. The child in an unstable family or in one whose income is uncertain and inadequate, has a difficult time to live a normal child life. He will have a tendency to substitute in some way the Jacks he feels in his own environment. The child who lacks the fundamental protection of a normal, stable home, becomes a prey to fear, uncertainty, and inferiority. He must substitute, for his natural love, objects, and he must defend himself from his unpleasant reality?perhaps with dreams and pretenses and substitute activities. Not that the child does these things consciously and deliberately. He can seldom explain what is back of his troublesome behavior. In his unconscious effort to substitute is found the reason why some child has secretive, sullen ways, why another takes things, or runs away, or tells falsehoods of wealthy relatives or fabulous parties he has attended. The adjustment of the problem child cannot be accomplished by a general program. He must be studied as an individual and the treatment administered should be individualized to meet his particular needs. He may need care in an institution, but the mentally normal child should be able, through the combined efforts of school, home, church, and welfare agencies, to make a satisfactory adjustment in his own home. The unusual child, the one either above or below average; should receive special attention in school. The superior child, if not directed, and if limited to the pace of the slower children, is likely to become restless and troublesome. In some of the larger schools, opportunity classes are formed for the bright children where they are permitted to advance as rapidly as possible. The slower children, too, should be placed in separate groups, or in a special school, as is the case in Salt Lake City, where the work is adjusted to meet their abilities. Emphasis is placed on manual work and vocational training and the academic work is arranged to meet their limited capacity. The child is thus better trained to meet the type of industrial life for which he is mentally equipped, and, besdes, he is saved the strain of constant failure and humiliation that he is under in the average school room. For the type of backward child who cannot be cared for at school or in the home, institutional care is often advisable. Many states have built homes or colonies or institutions for these children who never grow up. It is recognized as a state duty to provide such institutions, for here the children are trained to their full capacity, are kept happy in a simple supervised environment, are protected from their own helplessness, and are saved from lives of delinquency and crime. PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS 1. What community plan should be in operation to prevent the neglect of health among the school children? Z. Why is vocational guidance especially important for children who do not do well at school work? 3. What are the dangers of pampering children? 4, What are the dangers of a very severe disciplinary training?. 5. Why is it harmful for children and adults to be made to feel inferior and to be constantly thwarted? Reference: The Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 82- O2..: Egyptians used Petroleum in Building Pyramids _ The oil industry had its birth in the United States about 1858, when crude oil was analyzed and a well was drilled at Titusville, Pa. But our Indians, and the races before them, knew crude oil. Thousands of years before Christ, Babylonian and Chaldean masons used it in semi-liquid form for cementing the bricks of their towering walls says the Scientific American, and it was used in building the pyramids. Herodotus mentions a well from which three substances, asphalt, salt, and oil, were pumped. Oil from natural springs in Sicily was used in lamps in the Temple of Jupiter, at Rome, and the wealthy illuminated their homes with it. The ancient Chinese and the Persians used it for light and heat, and it enters into the preservatives of the Egyptian embalmers.