National Woman's Relief Society Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 1842-1925 Amy Brown Lyman
(Note: This brief report was prepared at the request of the National Council of Women to be placed in a souvenir booklet containing reports from other affiliated societies, to be presented to the international officers, conveners and council delegates attending the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women to be held in Washington, D. C., May, 1925.)
Historical. The National Woman's Relief Society is one of the charter members of the National Council of Women of the United States. The Society was invited to send representatives to the original meeting of the National Council, in Washington, D. C., 1888, and it has, since the organization of the Council, been a continuous, active member of this federation.
The Relief Society was organized March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo, Illinois, and is an auxiliary organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, commonly known as the "Mormon" Church. The Society was founded by Joseph Smith, in the quaint lodge room of the old Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, and was first known as "The Female Relief Society." It began with eighteen charter members including Mrs. Emma Smith and three executive officers. It has grown to a present membership of 56,000. The organization is now national and international in scope, with general headquarters at Salt Lake City, Utah.
On October 10, 1892, the Society was incorporated and has since been known officially and nationally as the National Woman's Relief Society. The Relief Society is perhaps the oldest woman's organization in this country which has continuously persisted; its history, however, pre-dates the American Women's Suffrage Association by only six years. The only national woman's organization of earlier origin was the Female Anti-Slavery Society which dissolved after the abolition of slavery.
Organization. The National Woman's Relief Society is presided over by a General Board which has commodious, well-equipped headquarters in the Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The headquarters include a large, beautifully furnished board room, together with suites for the officers, and for the various departments. The board consists of twenty-three members, including a general president, two vice-presidents, and a general secretary. The present officers of the organization are: President, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams; first vice-president, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight;

second vice-president, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison; general secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.
The Society is made up of ninety-four geographic divisions known as districts or stakes, and seventeen missions, each of which is presided over by a group of stake or mission officers. These stakes and missions are in turn composed of 1,356 branches or single societies known as wards. The work of each branch or ward is directed by a corps of ward officers, and it is in the ward units that the detailed work of the organization is done.
Object and Aims. The aims of the Relief Society as outlined originally were briefly: to manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to foster a love for religion, education, culture and refinement.
In the eighty-three years of its existence, the organization has manifested the spirit of its original purposes—the expression of its aims and ideals has taken form in a variety of movements, which have increased in number and have extended in activity as the Society itself has grown in branches and in membership. From the beginning there has always been a two-fold program— one covering the educational work and the other the welfare activities. At various periods during its existence the Relief Society has emphasized movements that were of particular importance to the women of each era. However, the fundamental object of the organization—welfare work, educational and cultural development—has guided the major activities at all times.
Historic Activities. The women of the Relief Society were early interested in woman suffrage and intermittently had franchise, even in territorial days in Utah. When Utah received statehood in 1896, the constitution permanently bestowed upon women the power of vote. Because of their political privileges locally, the women became active supporters and conspicuous figures in the National Woman Suffrage Movement, and sent delegates regularly to the National Suffrage conventions to lend their support to this great cause.
A unique movement in the pioneer days of Utah was a seri-culture project established by the women of the Relief Society under the direction of Brigham Young. The industry included the planting of mulberry trees, the growing of cocoons, and the manufacture of raw silk into cloth. The industry was successful for many years, the raw material winning prizes at the world's fair in Chicago in 1893. Susan B. Anthony
wore with much pride a dress made of Utah silk, presented by the women of the Relief Society. There were three silk factories in the state, and hundreds of yards of silk cloth and ribbon were manufactured.
To facilitate the exchange of domestic commodities in the primitive, isolated western life, where money and manufactured merchandise were scarce, the women operated cooperative stores, or concerns. At these concerns they exchanged the products of their labor, their handiwork, and also household articles, with a view of being mutually helpful in meeting the difficult problems of pioneer conditions.
In order to promote and develop their work effectively, the members of the organization raised funds and erected halls where their weekly meetings and socials were held, and where they gathered to sew, knit, remodel clothing, prepare burial clothing, and make quilts and carpets. These articles were sometimes sold for the benefit of the treasury, but were given freely to those in need. These unique Relief Society halls, costing as much in some instance as $5,000, were to be found in many of the communities, where they stood as monuments to the industry and enterprise of these sturdy pioneer women.
Religious and Cultural Program. One of the features of the Relief Society is educational work for the benefit of the members. Weekly meetings are held in all the 1,356 branches of the Society, where a uniform outlined course of study is presented. The lessons at present include three departments: theology, literature, and social service, and are prepared by experts in these lines. These lessons are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the Society's monthly publication, which has a wide circulation. Wherever possible, women who are or have been actively engaged in teaching, are selected as supervisors and class leaders in this educational work.
The course of study has been varied, and has included lessons in health, citizenship, parliamentary usage, home economics, home gardening, law enforcements, etc. In connection with the lesson work, and as a means of follow-up work, projects in home economics and home gardening have been established, and definite programs in citizenship work and in law enforcement have been carried forward.
In addition to the regular weekly meeting, annual district conferences and semi-annual general conferences are held. - Members of the General Board travel to the district conferences to study and supervise local work and conditions, and the district workers and members travel to the Salt Lake headquarters, twice a year, for general instruction and inspiration. These con-

ferences are materially beneficial and helpful in standardizing and unifying the work of the organization.
A late educational development is. The cooperation of the organization with the normal schools and colleges in a number of the western states in conducting what are known as "leadership weeks" where special academic and pedagogical courses are given.
In connection with the educational work the Society has established memorials for past general presidents in the form of two loan funds, a yearly prize poem contest, and a gift for sacred temple service. The loan funds are a loan fund for girls of upper classes at the Brigham Young University, and a loan fund for nurses. These memorials are known as the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest; the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund for Nurses; the Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Temple Grant; the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund for Girls.
Relief Society Publications. In order to have a medium for setting forth the aims and accomplishments of the women of the Relief Society, a woman's paper was established in 1872, known as the Woman's Exponent. At that time this paper was the only woman's paper between Boston and the Pacific Coast. Its columns were open to all movements in the interest of human welfare and the paper encouraged many literary aspirants of early days. The editors of this paper were Mrs. Lula Greene Richards and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, the latter acting in this capacity for forty years, and later becoming general president of the organization.
After forty-two years the Woman's Exponent ceased publication, and in 1914 the. Relief Society Magazine was established, with Mrs. Susa Young Gates as editor and Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde as business manager. The Magazine is the official organ of the Society and has a present circulation of 26,000. Its editors now are Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams and Alice Louise Reynolds.
Charity and Welfare Work. ' The Relief Society, as the name indicates, has always functioned as a philanthropic agency. During the year 1923 the Society's report shows that $97,846.31 was disbursed for charitable purposes. At the time of the Society's organization the founder, Joseph Smith, made a contribution of $5, stating then that whatever he gave in the future to charity would be given through the Relief Society. At this first session, other members made contributions and a program of organized relief has been in operation through the entire history of the Society.
Charity work in the Relief Society is under the direct charge of the ward or branch presidents. They are assisted by a corps of
workers, known as Relief Society teachers, or district visitors. This system of district visiting was inaugurated in Nauvoo in 1843, when the membership of the Society grew so rapidly that. The president needed assistance in order to be certain that no illness or suffering was overlooked among the population. A committee of four members from each of the four branches in Nauvoo was appointed to visit all the families regularly and was given the quaint name of ''Necessity Committee." The Society's policy of caring for the physical and material needs of families in distress has been continued and extended. This "Necessity Committee" was the beginning of what is now an elaborate system of family visiting which is a vital part of the program of each ward.
Every family in every branch is visited once a month by two Relief Society women who bear the title of "district teachers." It is their responsibility to discover all instances of sickness and distress and to report their findings to the branch president who makes investigations and administers whatever help is needed. The families of each ward are grouped into districts of twelve families, and the teachers, who visit in pairs are responsible for one district. Besides discovering the families in need on these visits, which are made to all families irrespective of station or wealth, the teachers carry messages of love and greeting from the organization and present an educational topic for discussion. They also accept contributions from those who have offerings to make to the Society.
In Salt Lake City where Relief Society headquarters are located, and where the social problems are more complex and the. Resources more diversified than in the rural districts, a special welfare department has been created to supplement the regular work of the Society, and to furnish a laboratory for training classes in social work which are conducted there at intervals. The trained social workers in this department give intensive supervision that is needed to give constructive treatment to difficult social problems. It has also been the aim of the General Board to improve the standards of charity work generally by giving the branch presidents and district teachers an insight into the fundamental problems of constructive family welfare work.
In 1920, the General Board conducted an intensive course in family welfare work at the summer session of the Brigham Young University, under the personal supervision and tutelage of the general secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Nearly seventy of the stake divisions sent delegates. To. Take this course. The work was later carried into the local divisions where institutes were held with local workers.
A series of outlined lessons in social service have appeared

in the Relief Society Magazine for several years, and have been the subject of discussion each month at one of the weekly meetings in all the branches. Social service topics have also been frequently the subject of discussion at conferences, and at "leadership week."
Health and Nursing. The Relief Society, from the time of its organization, has been especially interested in health and nursing problems. Soon after the arrival of the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley in 1847, a council of health was established with the one local doctor in charge, who was assisted by his wife, who had been an English nurse, Lectures were given on obstetrics, nursing, and child care. The women of the organization early realized the need of trained help in time of sickness, and they encouraged a number of their members to enter medical school in the east. During the early days, more than half a dozen prominent women of Utah entered eastern medical colleges, graduating as full-fledged physicians. Almost continuously since the settlement of Utah the Relief Society has conducted courses in health and hygiene, and for twenty years has maintained a school for practical nurses. In many instances the expenses of those taking the course were paid by the local Societies, and in return for this help, the nurses gave charity service in their home communities.
In connection with the health work, the Deseret Hospital was established by the Relief Society, but the undertaking proved too great for the organization. It demonstrated the needs of the community, however, and was the forerunner of the present hospitals of Salt Lake City.
In 1920, the Relief Society succeeded in persuading the L. D. S. Hospital, at Salt Lake City, to open a one-year course for nurse aids. For three years this course continued, but due to objections on the part of the National Hospital Association, the course has been discontinued for the present. This new departure in hospital training created a great deal of interest in many parts of the United States, and its success convinced many that shorter courses in hospital training are practicable.
It has been the chief aim of the Relief Society in connection with its nursing program to make it possible for the people in moderate circumstances to have the benefit of trained help in times of sickness.
Grain Saving and Maternity Work. In 1875, President Brigham Young, realizing the importance of an adequate food supply for his isolated people in far-away Utah, instituted the grain-saving movement. The crops had been threatened and even destroyed from time to time in these early
days by the elements and by grasshoppers and other insects, and being cut off from the rest of the country, it seemed imperative that the people should prepare for emergency. Some of these early settlers were in constant fear of famine.
The mission of saving and storing grain was given especially to the sturdy pioneer women who made up the body of the Relief Society at that time, with that courageous and capable leader, Mrs. Emmeline B.. Wells, to direct the project; and from the time the movement was inaugurated, in 1875, until during the World War, nearly fifty years later, the organization had on hand constantly a large supply of wheat and a substantial wheat fund.
In the early days the women bought wheat with funds raised in various ways. They made and sold quilts and other articles, they set aside the funds secured from, the sale of Sunday eggs, and at the harvest time they went into the wheat fields in large numbers and gleaned. On various occasions when great disasters have occurred the Relief Society has contributed wheat and flour. A notable example was the contribution of several carloads of flour sent to San Francisco at the time of the earthquake and fire. At the time of the World War the Relief Society had on hand 100,000 bushels of wheat, which was turned over to the Food Administration, the price being set by the government. In addition to the wheat the Society had a substantial wheat fund. Believing that the grain-saving movement had accomplished its early mission, and with a view of meeting some of the presentday needs, it was recommended by the general president of the organization, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, at the close of the war, that the wheat trust fund amounting to $410,000, be centralized and placed at interest, and that the interest be used for maternity welfare. This recommendation was adopted by the Society and the fund has been centralized. The fund itself will be held in trust for the various branches, but the interest is returned annually to each branch, according to its ownership in the trust fund, to be used by such branch to promote local maternity welfare work. Anticipating the need of the cooperation of various agencies by the state boards and bureaus, in the administration of the Sheppard-Towner work, and desiring to be of the greatest assistance to this work, the General Board of Relief Society recommended, early in 1923, that Relief Society women everywhere cooperate with their various states in the administration of this national and state provision, by helping to arrange for meetings, institutes, and clinics. The Board recommended also that maternity chests be established in each local branch, together with ready-touse maternity bundles and layettes; the chests to contain all sorts of articles for the mother and new baby, with accessories such L
 as syringes, bed-pans, hot water bags, etc., the bundles to contain, first, baby necessities (shirt, band, gown, diaper, blanket). The recommendations of the General Board were readily adopted by the Relief Society generally, and at the end of the year following report came in concerning the work: Number of health centers established............... 13 Number of maternity hospitals established.......... 1 Number districts or stakes in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as stake unit) has cooperated 40 Number of stakes; operating as stake units, having maternity chests:.13 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having maternity bundles 20 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having layettes........24. Number of local branches or wards in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as ward units) has cooperated 210 Number of wards which have maternity chests.......132 Number of wards which have maternity bundles....306 Number of wards which have layettes.............236 Total number of wards which have some provisions for health and maternity welfare work, either in the way of clinics, chests, bundles, or layettes.......599 Number of stakes which assisted in paying county or school nurses....... 3 In addition to the above report, stakes and wards have assisted in arranging for operations and paying for hospital care, have provided household and nursing care during sickness, have conducted weekly classes in health lessons, and arranged for health lectures, and have assisted in providing 'clothing and equipment for children's hospitals, etc., etc. References for Anniversary Programs "First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo," March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims, and Brief History of Relief Society,' March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents,' March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketch of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Magazine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization," March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668.