LESSON III (Third Week in May) Literature JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY In our former lesson we dealt with James Whitcomb Riley as a dramatic reader. This lesson will be devoted to Riley the Hoosier poet, and Riley the poet of children. Riley once remarked, "You have observed that man uniformly sighs for the land of his birth. That is a hint from his Creator that he should not disown his native hearth. A man reared in a prairie country may go to live in a hilly section, but there comes a day, if his heart expands as it should, that he longs to see the prairies again. Myron Reed heard a shipload singing in the rain on upper deck at 2 o'clock in the morning as they approached the Clyde. And what were they singing? "Ye Banks and Braes of Bonnie Doon." Riley was very happy over the fact that he was born in Indiana, so is Booth Tarkington, I take it, and as a consequence these two writers together have given all the rest of us a very good idea of the man from Indiana. In representing his Indiana people, Riley has made use of the Indiana dialect, which is known as the Hoosier dialect, consequently he is called the Hoosier poet: HIS LOVE OF HOME "As love of native land," the old man said, Er stars and, stripes a'wavin' overhead, Er nearest kith-and-kin, er daily bread, A Hoosier's love is for the old homestead." Mr. Hitt, Mr. Riley's first publisher, says of him, "What he saw as a boy among the homely, wholesome people of Indiana he later transmuted into poetry, and consciously began to impersonate the characters that marshaled themselves in his fertile brain. Many of his well known poems were offered to Indiana audiences long before they got into print, and nearly all his humorous prose sketches were familiar to his friends here at home before they delighted audiences elsewhere." We are including the poem called '"Home-Folks" as an illustration of his love of home, but chiefly to illustrate the use he made of the Hoosier dialect: HOME FOLKS Home-Folks!?Well, that-air name, to me, Sounds just the same as poeiry? That is, ef poetry is jis As sweet as I've hearn tell it is! Home-Folks?they're jis the same as kin? All brung up, same as we have bin, Without no overpowerin' sense Of their oncommon consequence! They've bin to school, but not to git The habit fastened on 'em yit So as to ever interfere With other work 'at's waitin' here. 
 Home-Folks has crops to plant, Er lives in town and keeps a cow; But whether country-jakes er town,? They know when eggs is up er down! La! Can't you spot 'em?when you meet '"Em anywheres?in field or street? And can't you see their faces, bright As circus-day, heave into sight? And can't you hear their "Howdy!" clear As a brook's chuckle to the ear, And, allus find their laughin' eyes As fresh and-clear as morning skies? And can't you?when they've gone away Jis feel '?em shakin' hands, all day? And feel, too, you've bin higher raised By sich a meetin'??God be praised! Oh, Home-Folks! You're the best of all "At ranges this terestchul ball,? But north or south, er east er west, It's home is where you're at your best. It's home?it's home your faces shine, In number your own fig and vine? Your fambly and your neighbors 'bout Ye, and the latchstring hangin' out. Home-Folks?at home,?I know o' one Old feller now, at haint got none,? Invite him?he may hold back some? But you invite him, and he'll come. Longfellow had been the poet of the common people and of the children. Riley greatly admired Longfellow, and strangely enough he stands at his side and with him lives in the very heart of hearts of the children of our land. In 1910, it began to look as if the end might not be far off, and from then on from many sides honors were heaped upon Mr. Riley. He had contributed seventy-five thousand dollars to the Indianapolis Public Library. In the entrance to that institution bronze tablets bear the following inscription: These Gates are the Gift of the Children of Indianapolis In Loving Remembrance of Their Friend James Whitcomb Riley In 1910 the Indiana Federation of Women's Clubs, acting on a resolution introduced by Mrs. Minnie Belle Mitchell, of Greenfield, had voted' to celebrate the poet's birthday. The school authorities, being in sympathy with the movement, instructed the teachers and children of Indiana to observe October 7 as Riley Day. When the poet discovered that the state was serious about the celebration, he addressed a letter to the children of his home city, one sentence of which ran as follows: ''You are conspirators ?every one of you, that's what you are?you have conspired to inform the general public of my birthday, and I am already so old that I want to forget all about it." On his way south, during the period of time that he was going to the south, in search of better health, he was in Cincinnati where several thousand children brought flowers to his reception in Music Hall. On his birthday, a month before, 3,000 children had marched past his home in Lockerbie Street, Indianapolis October 7, 1915, a message from Franklin K. Lane, head of the Federal Board of Education, came to Indiana, telling of the nation-wide celebration of the poet's birthday, by the school children of the United States. And later came this important proclamation. "He is the children's poet, and he has become such because he has so much of the spirit of the one who said, 'Suffer little children to come unto me!' All Indiana will rejoice therefore to see her children afforded an opportunity to place their heart-wreaths upon his brow and strew their flowers about his feet: "Now, therefore, I Samuel M. Ralstone, as Governor of the State of Indiana, hereby designate and proclaim the seventh day of October, A. D., 1915, the anniversary of the birth of James Whitcomb Riley, as Riley Day; and I urge all the people of the state to arrange in their respective communities, in their own way, appropriate public exercises in their schools and at other public meeting places; and that they display the American flag at their homes and at their places of business on this day, in honor of Indiana's most beloved citizen." Citizens of Massachusetts said that Indiana had done more for Riley than was ever done for one of the Massachusetts poets, that no Governor of Massachusetts had ever issued a proclamation asking that Massachusetts celebrate the anniversary of the birth of any one of its poets. One of the best of Riley's stories for children is "The Bear Story." It is a classic. The inconsistencies are delightful. It is in every way typical of the story that a child, with much imagination and the limited experience a child has, tells. Riley procured this story in the following manner, His little brother told the story, and it amused the people about the hearthstone so greatly, that they asked him to repeat it very frequently. When Riley began making up his program, for the platform, it occurred to him that as this story had amused practically everyone who had come to their hearthstone, it might amuse his audiences, and it did. 
 Later he tried to leave it out of his programs, but his aidientes clamored for it, and would not permit it, so in the end it got into his books. Like all poets who write for children, Riley has a good many nature poems, because the normal child loves nature, and he loves the poet who loves nature. We include here Riley's: KNEE DEEP IN JUNE Tell you what I like the best? "Long about knee-deep in June, 'Bout the time strawberries melts On the vine,??some afternoon Like to jes' git out and rest, And not work at nothin' else! Orchard's where-I'd ruther be? Needen't fence it in fer me!? Jes, the whole sky overhead, And the whole airth underneath? Sort o' so's a man kin breathe Like he art, and kind o' has Elbow-room to keerlessly Sprawl out len'thways on the grass Where the shadder's thick and sclt As the kivvers on the bed Mother fixes in the loft Allus, when they's company! *Jes' a sort o' lazin' there? S' lazy 'at you peek and peer Through the wavin' leaves above, Like a feller 'ats in love And don't know it, ner don't keer! Ever'thing you hear and see Got some sort o' interest? Maybe find a bluebirds nest Tucked up there conveenently Fer the boy 'at's ap' to be Up some other apple tree! Watch the swallers skootin's past Bout as pert as you could ast; Er the Bob-white raise and whiz Where some other's whistle is. Ketch a shadder down below And look up and find the crow? Er a hawk,?away up there, '*Pearantly froze in the air!? Har the old hen squawk and squat Over ever' chick she's got, Suddent-like!?and, she knows where That-air hawk is, well as you!? You just bet yer life she do!? Eyes a glitterin' like glass, Waitin' till he makes a pass! Pee-wees' singin', to express My opinion's second class, Yit you'll hear 'em more er less; Sapsucks gittin down to biz, Weedin' out the lonesomeness; Mr. Bluejay, full o' sass, In them baseball clothes o' his, Sportin' round the orchard jis' Like he owned the premises! Sun out in the field kin sizz, But flat on your back, I guess In the shade's where glory is! That's jes' what I'd like to do Stiddy fer a year er two! Plague! Ef they ain't somepin' in Work 'at kind 0' goes ag'in' My convictions!?long about Here in June especially!? Under some old, apple tree, Jes' a-restin' through and through, T could git along without Nothin' else at all to do Only jes' a-wishin' you Wuz a-gittin' there like me, And June wuz eternity! Lay out there and try to see Jes' how lazy you kin be!? Tumble round and souse yer head In the clover-bloom, er puli Yer straw hat acrost yer eyes And peek through it at the skies; Thinkin' of old chums 'at's dead, Maybe, smilin' back at you In betwixt the beautiful Clouds o' gold and white and blue!? Month a man kin railly love? June, you know, I'm talkin' of! March ain't never nothin' new!? April's altogether too. Brash fer me! And, May?I jes' '"Bominate its promises,? Little hints o' sunshine and Green around the timber-land? A few blossoms, and a few Chip-birds, and a sprout er two,? Drap alseep, and it turns in 'Fore daylight and snows ag'in!? But when June comes?clear my th'oat With wild honey!?Rench my hair In the dew! And hold my coat! Whoop out loud! Th'ow my hat!? June wants me, and I'm to spare! Spread them shadders anywhere, I'll git down and waller there, And obleeged to you at that! 
 Does not that poem convince us that James Russell Lowell was right when he asked, "And what is so rare as a day in June?" Another poem in this class is: THE DAYS GONE BY Oh, the days gone by! Oh, the days gone by! The apples through the orchard, and the pathway through the rye; The chirrup of the robin, and the whistle of the quail As he piped across the meadow sweet as any nightingale; 'When the bloom was on the clover, an' the blue was in the sky, And my happy heart brimmed over, in the days gone by. In the days gone by, when my naked, feet were tripped, By the honeysuckle's tangles, where the water lilies dipped, And the ripple of the river lipped the moss along the brink, Where the placid-eyed and lazy-footed cattle came to drink, And the tilting snipe stood fearless of the truants wayward cry, And the splashing of the swimmer, in the days gone by. Oh, the days gone by! Oh, the days gone by! The music of the laughing lip, the lustre of the eye; The childish faith in fairies, and the Aladdin's magic ring, The simple soul-reposing, glad belief in everything, When life was like a story, holding neither sob nor sigh, In the olden, golden glory of the days gone by. Another poem that smacks of a boy's life is "The Old Swimmin' Hole;" "The Raggedy Man," and "Little Orphan Annie" have always been favorites of the children, as well as many others that might be listed. We conclude the lesson with Edgar A. Guest's tribute to Riley. Mr. Guest has seldom done anything so fine. It makes us see and feel Riley in a way that it is not often the good fortune of one poet to make us see and feel another: JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY (Written July 22, 1916, when the world lost its "Poet of Childhood") There must be rejoicin' on the Golden Shore today, An' the big an' little angels must be feelin' mighty gay: Could we look behind the curtain now I fancy we should see Old Aunt Mary waitin', smilin' for the coming that's to be, An' Little Orphan Annie an' the whole excited pack Dancin' up an' down an' shoutin': "Mr. Riley's comin' back!" Theres a heap o' real sadness in this good old world today; There are lumpy throats this morning now that Riley's gone away; There's a voice now stilled forever that in sweetness only spoke An' whispered words of courage with a faith that never broke. There is much of joy and laughter that we mortals here will lack, But the angels must be happy now that Riley's comin' back. % The world was geitin' dreary, there was too much sigh an' frown In this vale o' mortal strivin', so God sent Jim Riley down, An' He said: "Go there and cheer 'em in your good old-fashioned way, With your songs of tender sweetness, but don't make your plans to stay, Coz you're needed up in Heaven. I am lendin' you to men. Just to help 'em with your music, but I'll want you back again." An' Riley came, an' mortals heard the music of his voice. An' they caught his songs o' beauty an' they started to rejoice; An' they leaned on him in sorrow, an' they shared with him their joys, An' they walked with him the pathways that they knew when they were boys, But the heavenly angels missed him, missed his tender gentle knack Of makin' people happy, an' they wanted Riley back. There must be great rejoicin' on the streets of Heaven today An' all angel children must be troopin' down the way, Singin' heavenly songs of welcome an' preparin' now to greet The soul that God had tinctured with an everlasting sweet; The world is robed in sadness an' is draped in sombre black; But joy must reign in Heaven now that Riley's comin' back. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Select some words and phrases from Riley's poems as evidence of the fact that he made use of the Hoosier dialect. 2. Are you pleased that he used the dialect of his native state, if so, why? If not why? 3. Is there any connection between Riley's popularity and the material he made use of. If so, what is it? 4, What details in the Bear Story mark it as a typical child's story? Name other poems that you know children are fond of. 5. Assuming that "Knee Deep in June" makes. You feel like June, what are some of the details of the poem that have combined to produce this effect. 6. Name other of Riley's poems that take us out into the open and help to appreciate nature. Do you agree with Riley in his belief that people's hearts naturally turn to the land of their birth.