our public loss. She leaves the head of her Board with the confidence, esteem, and admiration of its members. Hers is a rare personality, a personality that seems intuitively just. Somehow under her administration each member of her Board felt that she understood the particular sort of support needed, and she gave that support in unstinted measure. There is an indefinable something that either makes or mars personality. In President Williams that indefinable something seemed to work for an effective presiding officer. A leader must hearten her workers; she must send them forth with an assurance that they can meet the situations that are ahead of them. This President Williams has done. She sent her Board members forth with an abiding faith in the mission of the organization they represented, and with faith in our Father in heaven and his Son Jesus Christ, whose Church is the instrument that brought the Relief Society into being. A leader must be progressive. Sister Williams' policy has 
 been to reach out and gather from people, eminently fitted dy virtue of their experience and training in social and charity problems, any knowledge they might have that would make this great relief organization of the Church more efficient. To this far sighted policy is due much of the progress in the welfare work that has marked Clarissa Smith Williams' administration. She also knew what if women are to realize their own possibilities and meet their new world, their knowledge must be expanded and their understanding increased. To this end three educational courses have been offered, a fact that has attracted educational experts interested in adult education. A president must be loyal. President Williams saw the light of day in a home whose members had dedicated their lives to establishing on earth the restored Gospel in these latter days. She has been loyal to the organizations of her Church. She has been loyal to those who have been charged with the responsibility of carrying forth these organizations. She has given to the work her best thought and her best energy; and now the release for which she asked is only another evidence of her loyalty. Many persons are willing to work and give of their best to promote an organization in which they believe and to which they are devoted; but they are rare individuals who, feeling that their ability to devote themselves has been impaired for any cause, can still be loyal enough to separate themselves from that institution because they would not interfere with its progress. Yet that is precisely what President Williams has done as indicated by President Grant's explanation at the time of her release. By this act she has given expression to the highest form of loyalty. A president must have wisdom. At any moment in her life she may be called upon to make important decisions that affect both organizations and persons. Sister Williams' training in Relief Society in some respects cannot be duplicated in the Church. We doubt if another woman may be found who, to use army parlance, has come up through the ranks as has Clarissa Smith Williams. Her experience embraces service as a block teacher, a ward secretary, a ward president, a stake president, treasurer of the General Board, counselor to the General President, and General President. Consequently, her experience has been a background, furnishing material for many wise decisions for which the whole training of her life admirably fitted her. \ Those who recall her last address at the late conference will remember with what beauty of spirit and with what holiness of purpose she approached the theme of her resignation. With what exaltation she said to them "My dear sisters, if I should sometime in the future resign, you will know that there has been no 'decrease in my love and interest in the work. I have always been an advocate of stake presidents and ward presidents not clinging EDITORIAL 651 to the work too long; for I believe there are many sisters who should have the opportunities and experience such positions afford." President Williams always presided with graciousness and with dignity. She was never more lovable or appreciative than in those last days when she confided to the ward and to the stake officers and to her own Board her decision. It was a majestic picture as she stood there in full control of her emotions breathing forth words of inspiration and devotion, raising the spirits of all who heard her into a realm of nobility that caused them to be unsensible to the words she uttered. If there had ever been a particle of doubt about her generalship, which there had not, her closing hour crowned her as supreme.