Counselor Jennie Brimhall Knight Jennie Brimhall Knight is a woman whom people intuitively trust and that trust which her personality invites has never been betrayed so far as we know, and it has been our privilege to know her rather intimately over a period of thirty years or more. She is straightforward and honest in the strictest sense of the word; deception of any sort, has no abiding place with her. She is a woman of convictions and has the courage of her convictions. None who know her have ever feared that she might be the victim of untoward influences personal or otherwise that would lead her from the path of her well thought-out convictions. She has spent her life doing good to her neighbors and all who have come in contact with her have been her neighbors. Her point of view is a progressive point and her contacts sympathetic. As a counselor she has given complete satisfaction to her president and the Board and to the vast army of women who have listened to her carefully thought-out and inspiring addresses at the Relief Society conferences and conventions, and at the conferences and conventions that she has visited in all parts of the Church; for in this work she has a distinguished record. Her loyalty to the organization, to its membership and to the Church has been an outstanding quality of her work. Although her home was in Provo she has the enviable record of never having missed a session of the Executive Committee or of the Board, or of being late, when she was in the state, except as we recall it on one occasion when she suffered from an accident that made it necessary for her to remain in her home during the week. Mrs. Knight had been so thoughtful of other members of the Board when inconenienced by illness that we were rather seeking an opportunity to express our devotion to her. This accident furnished the first excuse and the Board responded with flowers and 
 a letter. Her last address at the conference is so characteristic of her that we feel sure that Relief Society workers reading that address will gain from it a feeling for the quality of her faith and loyalty that can scarcely be had as well in any other way. Jennie Brimhall Knight has been a great favorite and justly so. During the period of President Williams' enforced confinement in her home because of her husband's illness and her own impaired health, Mrs. Knight as first counselor carried the responsibility of the president. Her co-workers on the Board greatly enjoyed the kindness, good will and good -judgment expressed in her manner of presiding. She had the responsibility of the April Conference-Convention when a good many special meetings occurred between the regular meetings. The air was resonant with words of approbation and appreciation for Mrs. Knight because of the manner in which she carried that responsibility. Particularly was it noticed by members that she kept in the foreground the name of her absent president. Every address began with a communication to her auditors expressing the deep interest of President Williams in everything connected with the Board and explaining the cause of her absence. Mrs. Knight is a woman of rare charm and that charm was never more perceptible or engaging than during the strenuous days of the convention.