Counselor Louise Y. Robison Louise Yates Robison has been counselor to President Williams since the beginning of her administration. With Sister Knight she has given to her president that loyalty which a presiding officer may justly expect from her counselors. Whatever success attaches to an organization in its work. Must be shared by those who stand at the helm and push the work forward, and Louise Yates Robison has stood there and done her share. In addition to her devoted work as counselor she has been at the head of the burial clothes department. It has been said by people who know the Relief Society work intimately that the organization has never been in a better condition than at the present time, a fact which all the statistics support, and among its departments one of the most efficient has been the burial clothes department. It has been dependable and has been run in a strictly business-like manner. To Sister Robison are due the heartiest congratulations and the gratitude of all who have been served from that department, for the efficient way in which the work has been done. Then, too, we cannot refrain from saying that sister Robison's personality is almost made to order for that special work, for one of her gifts is the gift of expressing sympathy delicately and yet with healing sweetness. The person who stands at the EDITORIAL 653 head of the burial clothes department comes daily in contact with those who are bowed down with sorrow. Their whole souls are reaching forth for that kindly touch which, if it cannot restore the loss, can at least assuage the grief. Anyone knowing Louise Y. Robison must know that no one in trouble can come in contact with her without recognizing that in her voice and touch and word there is love and healing. One of the members of the Board once said of her that she perhaps more than any other members of the Board has the power to speak the word of sympathy and hearten those bowed in sorrow. Yet, in another way, Louise Y. Robison's service has been distinguished. Like Sister Knight she has gone all over the Church attending conventions in the nearby and remote stakes and she has gone forth with a message of gladness, and for her kindly ministrations comes the abundant reward of love and good will. It is sufficient endorsement of the work of Sister Robison as counselor that she has been selected the head of the organization, and in as much as the next issue of the Magazine will contain an editorial devoted to the new president we shall desist from saying the other things that should be said of her until the later writing.