[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Be ar — America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 21 — William Cullen Bryant (1794-1878) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 236-249) For Tuesday, February 21, 1961 Objective: To become more appreciative of Bryant both as an influential creator and as a revered representative of nineteenth-century America. There is Bryant, as quiet, as cool, and as dignified, As a smooth, silent iceberg, that never is ignified Unqualified merits, I'll grant, if you choose, he has 'em, But he lacks the one merit of kindling enthusiasm; If he stir you at all, it is just, on my soul, Like being stirred up with the very North Pole. "A Fable for Critics," 1848 HUS~ wrote up-and-coming James Russell Lowell, seven years out of college and now, at age twenty-nine, editor of an antislavery magazine and straining to make a name for himself. In this he succeeded, in the process succeeding also in establishing within the American mind his best-known generalization about Bryant, the one which still hovers about him yet which never represented him LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture Copyright 1908 by Eugene A. Perry WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT 1794-1878 either quite fairly or entirely. Next, add the second fact which "everyone knows" about him: picture the seventeen-year-old Bryant just writing out the last line of "Thanatopsis,' his most famous poem. Combined, these two impressions comprise the usual, easy definition of William Cullen Bryant as someone to name public schools after and to read in school, when required. For contrast, read aloud these lines from his little-known poem "Earth" written in 1834 when, at age forty, he was touring Europe for the first of six times: Who, alas! Shall dare Interpret to man's ear the mingled voice That comes from her old dungeons yawning now To the black air. The blood Of freemen shed by freemen, till strange lords 773 Came in their hour of weakness, and made fast The yoke that yet is worn, cries out to heaven. What then shall cleanse thy bosom, gentle Earth, From all its painful memories of guilt? The whelming flood, or the renewing fire, Or the slow change of time? — that so, at last, The horrid tale of perjury and strife, Murder and spoil, which men call history, May seem a fable, like the inventions told By poets of the gods of Greece. O thou, Who sittest far beyond the Atlantic deep, Among the sources of thy glorious streams, My native Land of Groves! A newer page In the great record of the world is thine; Shall it be fairer? Fear, and friendly Hope, And Envy, watch the issue, while the lines, By which thou shalt be judged, are written down. Bryant, Espouser of Causes Hear Bryant giving the principal eulogy honoring James Fenimore Cooper when, in 1852, his friends organized a public meeting in respect to his memory. Or, on the evening of February 27, 1860 (in the halls of the newly opened Cooper Union jammed with crowds to hear rawboned Abe Lincoln deliver his first speech in the East), listen to Lincoln's introduction by William Cullen Bryant, ardent campaigner for free trade, free soil, free slaves, free bargaining power of working men, and one of the founders of the Republican Party. Listen to William Cullen Bryant, known in his youth for his "torrid temper," whose fearless pen often called the radical editor Horace Greeley to task, and who once horsewhipped 774 an unscrupulous editor on a New York City street. At this same time Bryant brought his newspaper, the Evening Post to a position of such dignity and high esteem, during the fifty years of his editorship, that Vernon Louis Parrington calls him "the father of American poetry and the father of American journalism." It is full June time in New York City's lovely Central Park which Bryant was instrumental in establishing along with the Metropolltan Museum of Art and_ the National Academy of Design. A large crowd has gathered to witness the unveiling of a statue of Giuseppe Mazzini, the Italian patriot, and to hear him honored by the speaker of the day, William Cullen Bryant. He is now in his eighty-fourth year, white-bearded, dignified in his patriarchal role as dean of American poets, and still filled with majestic fire as he brings his short address to a close: Image of the illustrious champion of civil and religious liberty, cast in enduring bronze to typify the imperishable renown of thy original, remain for ages yet to come where we place thee, in this resort of millions; remain till the day shall dawn — far distant though it may be — when the rights and duties of human brotherhood shall be acknowledged by all the races of mankind! While returning home after giving this address, Bryant fell, and fourteen days later he died. Thus to the end of his full life Bryant was a man of honor, integritv, courage, kindness, and tireless action in behalf of those causes he loved — beauty in nature, poetry, and in classical literature; an American culture creative and free from EngRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 lish domination; honesty and justice in government; honor and dignity in all affairs of men; and the necessity of human freedom. Bryant will always live as an important minor American poet. In addition to his poetic pioneering, he deserves also to be remembered as one of the great pioneers of the nineteenth-century American spirit. The Young Poet Cullen was born November 3, 1794, at Cummington in western Massachusetts. His early years were dominated by his grandfather, a staunch Federalist, disciplinarian, and old-school Calvinist who also loved books and the current fashionable, neo-classical _ literature. When he was eight, Cullen wrote his first verses imitating classical Greek models, even though his own father ridiculed them and prophesied that one day he would be ashamed of his poetic impulse. In 1808, when he was thirteen, he repaid his grandfather's interest in him by writing "The Embargo," a poem containing all the political and economic convictions he had taught him. Reviling Jefferson, whom all Federalists opposed, zealous young Bryant advised him to "Go, wretch, resign the presidential chair." Similarly, during the war of 1812, when threats of conscription and increased taxation caused Massachusetts to make a separate peace with England, Bryant wrote poems praising Britain as the source of all man's liberties and condemning the unjust war his countrymen were carrying on against her. Bryant's year at Williams College was all his family could afford, but, by the time he had completed that LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture 7715 WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT'S HOMESTEAD CUMMINGTON, MASSACHUSETTS year and had "read" law for three more, he was completely "liberated" from his childhood pattern of Calvinism and Federalism. His ""Thanatopsis'' was written at college while he called himself a Deist (one who bases his belief in God on reason); his lifelong interest in politics was devoted to opposing the privileged moneyed class who were Federalists; however, his interest in the classics and in languages increased throughout his life, for, in later years, he translated poems written i Spanish, French, Portuguese, and German, plus Homer's entire Illiad and Odyssey from Homeric Greek. In 1821, he married in the country village where he had settled down, but though he continued practicing law he disliked it, feeling his profession forced him to:... Drudge for the dregs of men, And scraw] strange words with a barbarous pen, And mingle among the jostling crowd Where the sons of strife are subtle and loud. He published his first books of poems the same year, but, when his published works earned him only $14.92 in four years, he moved to New York City where he soon became editor of the New York Evening Post, a position he held so successfully for the next fifty years that, with wise investing, he died a millionaire. Literary Theory Wide reading in his father's lbrary and those of two ministers to which he had access, gave him an early liking for such neo-classical writers as Samuel Johnson, Alexander Pope, and Addison. 'The influence of the "graveyard school" is strong in ""I'hanatopsis," as absorbed from Young's "Night Thoughts," 776 Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard," and Henry Kirke White's "Time," which were concerned with the shortness of mortality and the omnipresence of death. Later, through his own reading and literary friendships formed in New York and abroad, Bryant achieved a genuine appreciation for the fullblown romantics who were then dominant in England: Wordsworth, Coleridge, Burns, and Scott. While many similarities appear between his nature-writings and those of Wordsworth, Bryant was not merely imitating him, or anyone else. From his early lecture, in 1819, on "The Use of Trisyllabic Feet in Poetry" through his influential "Lectures on Poetry" given in 1825, he established himself as the leading critic of American poetic theory. His constant plea was for an original poetry through which the new Nation could express itself in its own terms. America's poetry should be "a newborn thing, full of youth and life," not the cold, formalized lines of the past or of English romantics woodenly imitated. He provided further leadership to American poets by showing them in his own poetry a careful, specific observation of nature at first hand rather than the cliche generalizations about her moods and charms. Bryant cited some thirty birds in his poems and named a similar number of specific kinds of trees, more than any other American poet save Whitman. From his childhood walks with his father through the woods at all seasons of the year, Bryant learned a love of nature which brought him out-of-doors all his life, a love everywhere evident in his poems. Finally, his classical backRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 ground and_ self-disciplined lines set a pattern of excellence and restraint which had a powerful influence throughout his life on American poetry. Bryant believed that because poetry appeals to the understanding — by arousing the reader's imagination through presentation of a direct imitation of life — therefore, poetry has the power to move one to action and to "teach direct lessons of wisdom." 'Thus, he felt, the poet is morally obligated to deal only with noble subjects, leaving the low and the trivial for prose treatment.

Of all the arts, poetry appeals most powerfully to the imagination, but its greatest source of power is the emotions, its highest purpose being to "touch the heart." And for Bryant "the most beautiful poetry is that which takes the strongest hold of the feelings, and, if it is really the most beautiful, then it is poetry in the highest sense." Yet though poetry should thus move man, it should not be merely didactic, for then it is artificial. Increasingly in an age of big-city bustle and trade, Bryant felt that poetry was needed to balance man, and to keep him from becoming merely a machine. Thanatopsis Young Bryant was never strong, recording that the strain of farm work left him extremely faint. Evidently "Thanatopsis" was written while he was concerned that he, too, might die of tuberculosis, the frequent destroyer of poets. "I'hanatopsis" was composed in 1811 during his year at Williams College. The title, which means "view of death," was added by the editors of the LESSON DEPARTMENT North American Review. 'The first sixteen lines and the epilogue were added by Bryant when "Thanatopsis" appeared in his first book of poems. As the poem was submitted to the Review by Bryant's father, naturally he was thought to be its author, even though the editor saw in the poem such quality that he really believed it "was never written on this side of the water." With majestic smoothness and serenity the poem contemplates death and finds peace and solace in a return to all-enfolding nature. No-. Where in the poem is mention made either of Christianity or immortality. Not until his later poems did Bryant record his more mature belief in an afterlife, in contrast to this earlier stoicism. 'The poem begins in a tone of controlled calmness: To him who in the love of Nature holds Communion with her visible forms, she speaks A various language: for his gayer hours She has a voice of gladness, and a smile And eloquence of beauty, and she glides Into his darker musings with a mild And healing sympathy that steals away Their sharpness, ere he is aware. Therefore, when one becomes oppressed by thoughts of the shroud and "'the last bitter hour," he should: Go forth under the open sky, and list To Nature's teachings, whilst from all around — Earth and her waters and the depths of air — Comes a still voice.. A voice calling man back to "earth, that nourished thee,' and the "eternal resting-place" Yet not to thine eternal resting-place Shalt thou retire alone, nor couldst thou wish 7717 Couch more magnificent. Thou shalt lie down With patriarchs of the infant world — with kings, The powerful of the earth — the wise, the good, Fair forms, and hoary seers of ages past, All in one mighty sepulchre.... All that breathe Will share thy destiny. The gay will laugh When thou art gone, the solemn brood of care Plod on, and each one as before will chase His favorite phantom; yet all these shall leave Their mirth and their employments, and shall come And make their bed with thee.. So live, that when thy summons comes to join The innumerable caravan, which moves To that mysterious realm where each shall take His chamber in the silent halls of death, Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at night, Scourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and soothed By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch About him and lies down to pleasant dreams. Not until Whitman is death again to be so revealed as a benevolent, beautiful event in the inexorable though gentle rhythms of timeless nature as she takes her own unto herself. To a Waterfowl! In 1815, four years later, Bryant composed ""l'o a Waterfowl," which Matthew Arnold held to be the finest poem of its length in the English language. Beautifully unified by its central image of the nameless bird floating serenely through space toward its destination, the poem achieves its grandeur and sense of loftiness from its simple words and the subdued tone which is never broken. Best of all, 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 it creates its own moral or spiritual power within itself. Excerpts follow: Whither, midst falling dew, While glow the heavens with the last steps of dav, Far through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue Thy solitary way? Vainly the fowler's eye Might mark thy distant flight to do thee wrong, As, darkly seen against the crimson sky, Thy figure floats along. Seek'st thou the plashy brink Of weedy lake or marge of river wide, Or where the rocking billows rise and sink On the chafed ocean-side? There is a Power whose care Teaches thy way along coast — The desert and illimitable air, — Lone wandering, but not lost. That pathless Thouw'tt gone, the abyss of heaven Hath swallowed up thy form; yet, on my heart Deeply hath sunk the lesson thou hast given, And shall not soon depart. He who, from zone to zone, Guides through the boundless sky thy certain flight, In the long way that I must tread alone Will lead my steps aright. To say such poems are touched with true greatness is to state the obvious. Reading them once again, aloud and sympathetically, should serve to remind us of the comprehensive American who wrote them, thus combining within himself as within his poetry, those sterling and high principles of art which justly earned him the esteem of his contemporaries as well as our lasting gratitude. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What relationship, if any, can you define between Bryant's public life and his early excellence as a critic and author of poetry? 2. In view of his own life and maturing, why might Liberty be chosen as a key word around which much of Bryant was built? 3. Do you feel that in his poetry Bryant was successful in freeing himself from the influence of the English poets? In what sense do you find his poetry imitative? Original? American?