[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Holiday | Author: Smith]
Be- (Continued on page 786) Page 75] Holiday Sood Suggestions Ethel C. Smith N retrospect at Thanksgiving time, how often we discover that our blessings throughout the year have been too numerous to count. And we resolve not to be found guilty again of a complacent acceptance of our privileges and opportunities, but to be more aware and more appreciative each day of our good fortune. How grateful we should be for a bounteous harvest and for the help this gives us in planning and preparing meals. In spite of the many foods available, however, we still must have recipes. In almost every family there are traditional recipes and special dishes which make their appearance each year during the holiday season. But homemakers are always looking for new and different recipes to add to those treasured ones. It is in keeping with the neighborly gesture of exchanging recipes prevalent among Relief Society sisters, and in the spirit of gratitude and thanksgiving, that the following brief suggestions are offered: STEAMED PuDDING 1 c. Whole-wheat bread crumbs 1 c. Milk % c. Butter "2 ¢. Brown sugar (packed firmly) 1 c. Whole-wheat flour 1 tsp. Soda Soak bread crumbs in milk. Cream butter and sugar until fluffy. Sift dry ingredients together twice and add fruits and nuts. Fill greased pudding molds two-thirds full and steam 2 hours. Crumbs. Other mixture. Hot with lemon sauce topped with hard sauce, or with ice-cream sauce. 1 tsp. Nutmeg 1 tsp. Cinnamon " tsp. Salt "' c. Chopped nuts 1 c. Maraschino cherries (cut up) 1 c. Seedless raisins Add to soaked Blend well into Serve (Note: If pudding is steamed in wide-mouthed pint fruit jars, lids tight, it will keep indefinitely. IcE-CREAM SAUCE (For Pudding) 1 egg dash of salt "" Cc. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Whipping cream Beat egg until light. Add sugar, salt, vanilla, and beat well. Whip cream until stiff. Fold egg mixture into cream. About a half hour before serving time, pour into refrigerator tray and chill until partially frozen. Put on warm pudding and serve immediately. Fruit CockTait PupDING "2 ¢. Chopped nuts 7, ¢. Brown sugar 1 C. Sugar 1 c. Flour 1 tsp. Soda Page 752 ' tsp. Salt 1 egg (well beaten) 1 no. 2 can (1 Ib.)