[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Johnson]
Work ITleeting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5 — Routine Comfort Measures — The Patient's Bath and Care of the Mouth and Hair Maria Johnson For Tuesday, February 14, 1961 Objective: To lcarn the importance of certain measures in meeting the needs of the patient. To learn the key points in giving this care. ATHING the patient, giving mouth care, and caring for the patient's hair are important comfort measures and contribute to the patient's welfare and recovery. "Moving and Lifting the Patient, A. Bathing the Patient in Bed Remember to apply the rules given in Lesson 3, " as you carry out these procedures. The bed bath should cleanse and refresh the patient and give you an opportunity to observe reddened areas at end of spine, and over the bone prominences, such as elbows, shoulder blades, and heels. These reddened spots come from pressure and can develop into pressure sores, if preventive measures are neglected. Before starting the bath, assemble all articles needed for the bath, and clean linen and gown, if linen is to be changed. Cover table top with newspaper or rubber to protect it from spots. A few general rules: The room must be warm and free from drafts. Use a sheet blanket or light-weight cotton blanket to cover the patient. Hospital we call this a bath blanket.) (In the The patient must be kept covered at all times except for the part of body that is being bathed. Protect the bed by placing a bath towel under each part as you proceed. Use soap sparingly, rinse well, and dry Change the water at least once during the bath. Next part. Each part thoroughly before proceeding to LESSON DEPARTMENT 769 Inspect and wash well creases under the breasts or fatty folds of skin and dry thoroughly. Put the hands and the feet in the basin of water when washing them and give any special care needed. Toenails should be filed straight across — never cut a toenail at the corner. If the nail tends to grow inward at the corners, a wisp of cotton will prevent pressure which causes discomfort and soreness around the nail. Never cut corns or callouses with a razor blade. B. Mouth Care Mouth care is important in keeping the mouth, teeth, and gums clean and healthy and adds to the patient's comfort and welfare. We should not forget that mouth care for the sick patient is as important as it is for the well person. In many cases it is more important. Always wash your hands before giving mouth care. For the mouth care you will need the following equipment: Towel to protect the bed. Toothbrush and tooth paste or other cleansing agent. Glass of warm water. Drinking tube, if patient cannot sit up. Basin to catch rinsings from mouth. Container of mouth wash, if used. Cold cream or lubricant for dry lips. Good mouth wash — glass of warm water to which has been added % teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda (baking soda). For dryness or coated tongue — a mixture of one teaspoonful of lemon juice and one tablespoonful of mineral oil or glycerine is often recommended. Important points for the patient able to sit up in bed: Most patients in the home are able to brush their own teeth, but they need encouragement and some assistance. You will need to assemble the articles needed and place them within easy reach of the patient. If the patient can sit up, place a towel over her lap to protect the bed. Some patients will need more help, such as putting the tooth paste on the brush, holding the glass of water for rinsing, and holding the basin to catch the water as the mouth is rinsed. Clean and put away articles used. For the patient who cannot sit upright: Turn the patient on her side and protect the pillow with a towel. Put the tooth paste on the brush and let the patient, if able, brush her own teeth. Place the basin close to her cheek. Give the patient the warm water and mouthwash, if used, through a drinking tube or straw. Have her rinse the mouth thoroughly and hold her head while she lets the water run out into the basin. Wipe the lips and around the mouth with a dry towel. Apply a lubricant to the lips. If the mouth is dry, use the mixture of lemon juice and oil or medication ordered. Clean and put away articles used. Turn the patient and make her comfortable. Patient with dentures: You will need the same equipment as for natural teeth. If the patient is able, have her remove her plates and put them in a cup of water or tissue which you will provide. Clean the teeth under running water and return them to the patient in a clean cup of water. Keep the teeth in water and in a safe place if they are not to be worn. 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 C. Caring for the Patient's Hair Daily care of the patient's hair should be a part of the routine care. Encourage the paticnt to do as much for herself as her condition will permit. What she is unable to do, you will do for her. Brushing the hair cleans, stimulates the circulation of the scalp, distributes the oil, and adds to the patient's feeling of well being and comfort. The cleansing effect of brushing should not be underestimated. The brush must be clean. A boar bristle brush is most cffective. Brushing Equipment: Brush, comb, 2 towels Procedure: Bring patient to edge of bed and turn face away from you. Put a towel over her pillow and one around her shoulders. Brush one strand at a time. Alcohol will help remove tangles. Arrange hair and make patient comfortable. A Drv Shampoo A dry shampoo can be effective and less tiring than a wet shampoo. 'There are many dry shampoos on the market, but oatmeal or cornmeal can be used. Oatmeal brushes out more readily. Equipment, same as for brushing, plus oatmeal Procedure: 1. Bring patient to edge of bed and put a towel over pillow and one around patient's shoulders. 2. Part hair, strand at a time, and apply oatmeal to scalp. When all areas of scalp have been covered, rub the scalp well with a rotary motion. Let stand for about ten minutes while the oatmeal absorbs the oil. Brush thoroughly, one strand at a time, to remove oatmeal and dirt. If patient tires, let her rest and brush again later. An astringent such as alcohol or bay rum may be rubbed on the scalp following a dry shampoo. Use a small piece of cotton moistened with the astringent. This is not necessary, but leaves a cool, clean feeling. Dv hw Washing the Hair of a Patient in Bed Washing the hair can be tiring to the patient. It is well to have the physician's permission and to wash hair at a time when the patient feels rested and can rest afterward. Protect the patient from drafts and be sure that the room is warm. Equipment A waterproof trough, washboard, or piece of heavy plastic (see illustration), small container of soap solution or shampoo (never rub bar soap on hair), large pitcher of warm water for rinsing, small pitcher for pouring, pail or foot tub, newspaper to protect the floor, chair, and table, plastic pillow cover, three bath towels, one washcloth, and two cotton balls. LESSON DEPARTMENT 771 MAKING A WATER-PROOF TROUGH FOR SHAMPOOING THE HAIR Step 1 Step 2 Mlustrates a piece of plastic or waterHlustrates the bath towel rolled securely proof sheet with a bath towel rolled over around the edges of the plastic or waterthe edge at the top. Proof sheet, and shaped to make an improvised trough. NN, \I /' WASHBOARD AND TUB ARRANGED FOR USE IN SHAMPOOING THE PATIENT'S HAIR Note that the top of the washboard is placed in the tub, and the bottom sidebars: of the washboard serve as an additional support against the patient's shoulders. ' 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Procedure 1. Cover patient with light-weight blanket and turn back bed clothing. 2. Cover pillow with plastic and muslin cases. 3. Place pail on floor or stool at side of bed. Protect floor and table. 4. Assemble rinse water, shampoo solution, and pouring pitcher on table or chair where convenient. 5. Have patient lie crosswise on bed and bring head to edge of bed. 6. Pin towel snugly around neck; put cotton ball in each ear and a folded washcloth over eyes. 7. Put waterproof trough under head to carry away water. Ends of trough must hang down into the pail. 8. Moisten the hair, apply the soap solution, and rub the scalp and hair. A good lather is necessary. 9. Use an ample supply of rinse water to wash out the soap. If clean, the hair will squeak as you rub it. Repeat 8 and g if necessary. 10. Put a bath towel around the hair, remove the trough, and make the patient comfortable. 11. Rub the hair dry with a second towel. If the hair is long, it can be spread out over a covered hot water bottle. To Give a Shampoo When the Patient Can Sit Up The shampoo can be given in the bathroom over the basin. With a plastic sheet and towel. Patient can rest her forehead on the towel. (Check with the doctor to make sure it will not tire the patient too much.) Protect the shoulders Place a folded towel over the edge of the basin. The Proceed as when giving a shampoo in bed.