[Vol47 | November 1960 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Playthings | Author: Kedding]
Playthings Srom Castaways Holly B. Keddington OLD it! You don't intend to throw that away, do you? Look at it more carefully. You may see a use for it in your Relief Socicty nursery. All sizes of cans, spools, salt and ccreal boxes, tubes from paper and foil rolls, tin boxes, and small, firm cardboard containers can be made into attractive toys and games. Discarded tinker toys and blocks find a new purpose. Those shoelaces can be washed and used by a very young child, on which he can thread colored spools. Whether the finished product of this spool, can, or box art is a masterpiece is not important — that he made it himself and can take it home if he wants to is what really matters to the child. From various sized tin cans can be made a tctem pole with gay figures and symbols of felt or other available material pasted on. A paint thinner can becomes a cute fat pig with felt features, dots, and a curly pipe cleaner tail. Four short spools become stubby legs. A small shortening can (with a hinged lid) is a chalk container, and the large shortening can with the lid removed becomes a two-toned drum, if scraps of naugahyde are laced with boondoggle over the ends of the can. A painted band-aid box is fine for cravons. Salt boxes make an engine and tank, coal, and flat cars bright and gav with paint or wall-tex scraps and tinker toy wheels. A Sani-flush can makes an oil tanker, again with discarded tinker toy spools for wheels. These nursery toys can be made with practically no outlay of money, Page 746 if willing hands will help with the supplying of materials and doing the painting, gluing, and assembling. Many women love to paint, and no matter what color paint would be donated from that shelf in the garage or basement, they can mix and make beautiful combinations of colors from those odds and ends. Spools and salt boxes need a coat of shellac first, then one coat of paint will finish it. Tin cans cover well with one coat. These toys will be used and will have to be replaced, so have extra cans and spools painted or wall-texed. ORK meeting would be a fine time to have the older children help repair damaged toys. The breakage of a toy should not become a big issue, but rather show the children that with a little effort the toy can be restored. 'To cast away is wasteful, so it is good to mend, if possible. William Beal CUT-DOWN CARD TABLE WITH MATERIALS ASSEMBLED FOR MAKING TOYS Pieces of colored felt, assorted cans and spools, cast-off tinker toys, shoelaces, and string. PLAYTHINGS FROM CASTAWAYS If you know a paper hanger or upholsterer, his discarded sample books or largest scraps will make many things. The following were saved for the pictured articles: 2 shortening cans, 1 large and 1 small; vegetable juice, frozen juice, small milk, baby and junior foods, paint thinner, and Saniflush cans; various sized spools; salt boxes; small lid; one 2% gallon sherbet carton; scraps of mastic; walltex, felt, boondoggle, rickrack, and discarded blocks and tinker toy parts. Couplings for the train cost 15c, with some left over; shellac and paint were leftovers supplemented by a very small amount of new paint. As you work you will find 747 more things to use and more articles to make. A production line technique is best when working on this project. 1. Clean cans and be sure the glue is off the side where labels were joined. Punched cans are best, but if the tops are entirely off, be sure cans are smooth on the inside. 2. Separate into groups, different sizes in each group. Shellac spools and _ salt boxes. 3. Paint one group at a time, all one color. 'Then go on to the next color. Don't be afraid to paint an extra can or two, since you never have too many. 4. Don't rush! Let each article dry thoroughly. While these are drying, cut out and assemble the other materials to be used. Glue wall-tex, wallpaper, etc., on other cans and boxes. William Beal TOYS MADE FROM CANS Left to right: Container for crayons, chalk box, and drum. 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 5. Now make the selection of colored cans or spools for each toy. Use as many different colors as possible for cach project. The little tots like things gay. Now to Assemble: Totem Pole: 4 or 5 cans of various sizes and colors; glue cutouts of varicolored felt to sides of can. Stack with large can as base and taper up smallest can. Holes can be punched in top and bottom of cans and a dowel run through if pole is to be permanent, but you will find that the children love to stack the cans themselves. A gay fluff of wool or felt or a point of some discarded toy pasted to the top can make a nice finish. Pig: One paint thinner can, top of can as the head. Place assorted sizes of felt or mastic dots of a contrasting color on the body of pig. Add pink ears, eyes, and nostrils to the screw top of can, and four stubby spools for legs. A curly tail of three inches of pipe cleaner wrapped around a pencil is added at the very top of the back of can. Train: 'Three or more salt boxes of various colors, the engine preferably painted a bright yellow. <A spray paint can lid is also painted yellow and glued to the top of the front for a headlight. Place two rounds of felt on the front of this headlight, the smaller one on top of the other. The top one, yellow, simulates hight. Paste five narrow strips of felt or wool yam % inch below this light to resemble a cowcatcher. Make holcs by screwing large size screw carefully through sides of salt box % inch up sides and 1% inches from front and back of box. Run tinker toy stick through these holes and attach four tinker spools for wheels. Wheels will turn if they don't touch the sides of the toys. Flat cars are made by cutting "4 inch off side of box. Finish around top edge William Beal TOYS MADE FROM CAST-OFF CONTAINERS In the foreground: background: 'Vanker and Pig. Elicf Society 'Vrain. At the left: 'Yotem Pole. In the PLAYTHINGS FROM CASTAWAYS with mastic tape. Place wheels as for engine. Label sides Coal and fill with spools and blocks for cargo. Tankers are whole salt boxes with names printed or glucd on the sides for variety. All of the cars are joincd together with small hook and eye screws from hardware store. A thin piece of wood should be glued to cars so screws will hold tight. Place four wheels on can, as for trains. Add two _ headlights below red top of can. Write GAS on sides. Jumior will thus learn another word. Sani-flush tanker: Spool Telephone: Punch hole in the bottom of tape can or drill a hole in a 5 X 5 x 1 piece of plywood or pine. Place dowel through hole and stack three large spools on dowel. Glue two rounds of felt on top of third spool. Felt must have a piece cut from center to outside of circles to hold the receiver hook which is made from the hook of a coat hanger looped around a dowel. Pliers are used to cut and bend the wire. The next spool is placed above this and has a mouthpiece which is the top of a spray can nailed to the side of the spool. The top spool is a small one. A wing nut is used to fasten the top of the dowel. A heavy. Cord holds a soo-yard spool, which is the receiver. Waste basket: 1—2% gallon sherbet carton. Scraps of naugahyde, oilcloth, or wall-tex are glued to the outside of the carton. Finish the top with a fold of material, two or more inches wide; cut fringe, scallops, or any desired pattern and glue this to the inside of carton, % inch from top. Fold over to outside of carton and glue in place. Stack toy game: One piece of board 2 x 4 x 14 with two %-inch holes bored four inches from each end of the top of the board. Two dowels % x 24 inches are glued into the holes so they stand upright. Scrap lumber blocks, 6-inch tubes from paper rolls, small evaporated milk cans, and wooden spools from the ends of butcher paper are divided into two cqual piles, placed some distance from the upright poles, and the tcams place one object at a tine on their dowel. The team placing all of its objects on the dowel first wins the game. 749 William Beal COMPETITION, CONVERSATION, AND CLEAN-UP TOYS Left to right: stack toy game; telephone; waste basket. Play table—large: 1 large 5 x 5 foot piece of % inch plywood. Edges are sanded smooth and rounded slightly. Shellac all over. Two 17-inch high trestles act as legs. (Not illustrated.) Play. Table—small: A wooden-legged card table with seven inches cut from legs makes a play table just the right height for playing or eating. Outlining Pictures: Did you have a strip of peg board left over when you made the new bulletin board? If you cut it in small 4" x 6", 6" x 6", round or oval pieces, your children can paste or paint designs or pictures on them, and with boondoggle, colored yarns, or shoe laces, lace through the holes outlining the pictures. It helps so much with the small child's co-ordination. These are only a few of the possibilitics of such articles. Even before this is in print other ideas will have been worked out. You will have many ideas of your own. Make these ideas become realities. You will be 750 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 William Beal PEG BOARD ART Outline Pictures: ship, pup, and desert scene. Glad you did and so will your little Relief Society nursery friends. All of the above articles are fine for grandmothers to have on hand when tots come to call. Grandmothers are expected to have something special for the small guests. You will be surprised at the interest in these "homey" toys. Have a boxful ready for the next time the children visit. Grandpa may even help with the project. Lo vember Gastant Maude Rubin Now the brawling creek is liquid amber Loitering between ice-needled banks; One relic apple, summer's ember, Still burns on the naked bough and links 'hat lost Maytime with this tranquil instant... Then petalled perfume rinsed the night, Promised this quictude and casement Before the pillowed winter white. Ty Shird Grandma Parr III — Ants Ilene H. Kingsbury ICK the ant bed apart. Scatter the pointed top over the ground. Prod with a stick into the tunnels and the byways of the frantic, scattering multitudes of creatures whose fury and frustration are signaled deep beneath the garden level. Look at the purposeful hurry they have attained as they repair the damage, recover stores of food, and rescue their precious eggs from giant footfalls. We stomp. We brush the scurrying insects from our shoes, and as we see them making headway up our stockings and even onto our hands and arms, we fling ourselves about and dance away from the anthill and wish we hadn't disturbed it. We wonder what is the use of ants, anyway. OO We ran to safety under the shade of Grandma Morgan's back porch and met her coming to meet us. In her hand was a bowl of white flour paste which she stirred vigorously as she hastened toward the ants. She stopped just short of them and then, with a pinch of this rice flour paste, started to make a design on the ground. At first we couldn't see much sense or pattern to what she was doing. Just a lot of dots in measured rows, then continuous swirls and curves to enclose the dots and to create a tracerv of beauty resembling a delicate oriental screen. A fine filigree of rice flour was at our feet. It was as if precious lace had been held above the ground for its shadow to fall as a benediction on the ants. This was too silent and too beautiful for us to endure. At eight one must have an explanation for even the most simple demonstration. We asked Grandma what she was doing, and she said she was feeding the ants. Well, then, why not just spill the rice flour on the ant hill and let it go at that? From what she said that morning, I knew that if I never reached India, that she had brought India to me. Back in her childhood she had been taught to believe that kindness to all living creatures was a duty, the violation of which placed one under most serious penalties. 'Thus, if any of God's creatures needed shelter or food, the way should be opened. In fact, to anticipate the wants of such creations as the ants, was a mark of utter consideration. Therefore, on holidays especially, all Hindu women chose a small area in front of their homes on which to make a banquet for the ants. The designs of rice flour paste were marvels to please the eye. Often they were copies of a design known as the 'Tree of Life, or were replicas of ancient legends carved in oriental woods. In most cases they bespoke the originality of the individual. In the present enlightened world, the custom still stands, but with the good luck charm idea as the interpretation. As Grandma stooped to make her rice picture, we backed up a bit, hands clasped behind us to sort of control us from disturbing her.