Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
SUMMER-TIME! Nature in green loveliness holds out her hand laden with gifts from orchard, field and stream. She calls to the woods, the hills, the seashore or the shade of a friendly tree.
EVANGELINE BOOTH, of the Salvation Army was the first woman ever designated to make the opening prayer at a national political convention. She will be the only woman remembered as a participant in the great national conventions of 1932—remembered not for party affiliation but for her remarkable prayer, invoking Divine guidance in these days of doubt and distress.
HELEN KELLER, bravely advances in education. She received the degree of Doctor of Laws from Glasgow University this summer.
MRS. HERBERT HOOVER recently received her seventh honorary degree since becoming the nation's first lady. The degree of Doctor of Letters of Humanity was conferred by Wooster College, Ohio, in recognition of her social service work.
FLORENCE ALLEN was signally honored when the New York University conferred upon her the degree of Doctor of Law. She is the first woman to receive this honor from that University.
DR. ESTELLE FORD WARNER of the United States Public Health Service in a recent address said: "Our national situation in regard to maternal deaths is far from the condition of which to be proud. We still lose about one mother to every 140 babies born. Still many question the need for a successor to the Shepherd-Towner bill."
MRS. ANNIE W. GOODRICH, dean of Yale University, school of nursing, holds the nurse profession of such importance that it should be included in the curricula of all American Universities.
MRS. YNES MEXIA of the University of California has returned from a two year sojourn in the jungles of South America with 60,000 specimens of plants and flowers for American museums.
MISS MARY TALMAGE, pioneer in girls' educational work in the Orient, died this summer at Amoy, China, where her great work was carried on.
FASHION'S newest color is ice blue, a hint of the light cast by diamonds, popular for evening and formal afternoon gowns.
"WE BEGIN," by Helen Grace Carlisle, was the selection for July of the Book League of America.
"PENNY NEWSTEAD," a mystery story by Mrs. Belloc Lowndes and "Inheritance" by Phyllis Bentley, two English authors, are announced by American publishers for September.
"A PRINCESS IN EXILE," further memories of Marie of Russia, is issued this August. These personal reminiscences relating to the tragic experiences of the World War and its aftermath are most enlightening and worth while to those interested in modern Russia.
—Courtesy Pictorial California.