Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS (First Week in October)
NATURE AND ORIGIN OF THE REVELATIONS
1. The book of Doctrine and Covenants comprises a series of Divine revelations given to the world in the latter days principally through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith the Mormon Prophet. These revelations bear the same general relation to the modern world that the Jewish scriptures bear to the people of earlier times. The Bible however is largely a historical narrative enriched with theological instruction, whereas the Doctrine and Covenants consists almost exclusively of the direct word of the Lord to his people.
2. A Modern Scripture. The Doctrine and Covenants is therefore typically a modern scripture, especially designed to meet the needs of latter days. Some of the information it contains is a restatement in simpler form of certain principles and ordinances revealed in olden times; it also contains a vast fund of information concerning which earlier scriptures are largely or wholly silent. The Doctrine and Covenants is therefore characteristically a super-structure built upon the foundation of the former word of God to his people. It accordingly not only affirms the doctrines taught in the earlier scriptures but it meets the needs of modern times, and thus carries its adherents still closer to a complete understanding of the Gospel of the Master.
3. Classification of the Revelations. In general the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants are addressed either to individuals or to the Church as a whole. Not uncommonly, however, the revelations intended for individuals contain information applicable to the entire Church. Likewise the revelations to the Church often contain instructions for individuals. Accordingly a clear-cut classification of the revelations even into the two groups mentioned is not in every case possible.
Revelations to Individuals. Before the rule and order of the Church had been established, numerous interested persons who desired to know what the Lord expected of them requested Joseph Smith to make inquiry for them, as a result of which many revelations addressed to individuals were received. This occurred both before and for some time after the Church was organized. More than one-fourth of the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants are thus directed to individuals. As illustrative of such revelations received before the Church was organized, see Section 4, given in 1829 through Joseph Smith the Prophet to his father. The revelation declares that a marvelous work is about to come forth, that the field is white already to the harvest, that if he (Joseph Smith, Sr.) desired to serve the Lord he was called to the work, and that faith, hope, and charity, with an eye single to the glory of God, are qualifying LESSON DEPARTMENT factors for the service. The revelation follows with a charge to various virtues including faith, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, and diligence. It closes with the oft-repeated promise, "Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." Surely such a message should bring rejoicing both to the father who received it and to the dutiful son through whom it was divinely given. 5. Other somewhat similar revelations received before the organization of the Church are contained in Sections 8 and 9, to Oliver Cowdery; Section 11, to Hyrum Smith; Section 14, to David Whitmer. The student will do well to become familiar with the content and purpose of these instructions. 6. Numerous individual revelations were also given after the Church was founded. As illustrations, see Section 25, to Emma Smith; Section 28, to Oliver Cowdery; Section 31, to Thomas B. Marsh; and Section 126, to Brigham Young. 'Careful reading will disclose the especial purposes for which they were given. 7. Revelations to the Church. The revelations addressed to the Church as a whole deal with a wide variety of subjects. Early in the history of the Church the Prophet's greatest need was information concerning its organization and management. Accordingly many of the revelations deal with these subjects. Section 20, for example, discusses Church Organization and Government; Section 18, the Twelve Apostles; Section 84, the Priesthood; Section 102, the High Council, etc. 8. On the other hand, other revelations contain information concerning doctrinal aspects of the Church; some are concerned more temporal matters. 489 or less exclusively with this matter. As examples of the latter, attention is called to Section 19, which has to do largely 'with the Atonement; Section 46, with gifts of the spirit; Section 76, with future glories, and Section 128, with baptism for the dead. 9, Still another class of revelations deals with the movements of the Church, also with more or less For example, Section 124 commands the building of the Nauvoo temple; Section 60 directs Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Rigdon to leave for a mission; Section 47 calls John Whitmer to the office of Church historian; Section 3 gives instruction concerning the loss of certain Book of Mormon manuscript: and Section 83 embodies a statement relating to the claims of widows and orphans upon the Church. 10. Miscellaneous Revelations. In addition to the foregoing, the Doce trine and Covenants contains numerous statements of a miscellaneous nature, relating, for example, to the origin and nature of life (131:7, 8). The basis of human rewards (130: 20,21), the civil war in America (130:12, 13), the glory of God (93: 36), eternity of the marriage covenant (132:19), etc. Indeed, it is information of this nature that cheracterizes the Doctrine and Covenants as one of the greatest books of all time. The book touches practically every phase of human existence and transcends in point of clarity and deepness of thought any other revelation given of God to man. It is truly a Divine scripture to the modern world. 11. Words of Heavenly Messengers. The manner in 'which the revelations were received is known only in part. Moreover, not all were received in the same way. Section 490 2, for example, which is the oldest revelation in the book, is an exact statement of the words of the angel Moroni to the youthful Prophet on the night of September 21, 1823. Joseph's own account of the visitation is in part as follows: "After telling me these things, he commenced quoting the prophecies of the Old Testament. He first quoted part of the third chapter of Malachi, and he quoted also the fourth or last chapter of the same prophecy, though with a little variation from the way it reads in our Bibles. He quoted it thus: 'For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, all that do wickedlyshall burn as stubble; for they that come shall burn them, saith the Lord of Hosts, that it' shall leave them neither root nor branch.' And again, he quoted the fifth verse thus: 'Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.' He also quoted the next verse differently: 'And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers; if it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming'." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 12) 12. The revelation 'recorded, as Section 13 is also an exact reproduction of the words of a heavenly personage. Speaking of the occasion in May of 1829 when he and Oliver Cowdery were importuning the Lord for information concerning the ordinance of baptism, Joseph Sal says: 'While we were thus employed, praying and calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon us, he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ordained us, saying." The words recorded in Section 13 are then repeated. (History of the (Church, Vol. 1, p. 39.) 13. It is not improbable that Section 27 also embodies essentially the identical words spoken to Joseph + Smith by a heavenly messenger. The Prophet records that "Early in the month of August (1830) Newel Knight and his wife paid us a visit at my place in Harmony, Pennsylvania; and as neither his wife nor mine had been as yet confirmed, it was proposed that we should confirm them, and partake together of the Sacrament, before he and his wife should leave us. In order to prepare for this I set out to procure some wine for the occasion, but had gone only a short distance when I was met by a heavenly messenger, and received the following revelation [Section 27], the first four paragraphs of which were written at this time, and the remainder in the September following." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 106). Tt is evident also that Section 110 contains the direct statement of certain heavenly personages who visited the Kirtland temple shortly after its dedication. 14. The Urim and Thummin., The Urim and Thummin, employed extensively by Joseph Smith in the translation of the Book of Mormon, were also used by him in receiving many of the earlier revelations. At least the following were received in this manner: Section 3, 6, 10, 11. 14, 15, 16, 17. (See History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 22, 23, 33, 44, 45, 49, 53.) After the translation of the Book of Mormon was completed (1829) the Urim and Thummin are seldom mentioned in connection with the receiving of revelations. It is well known to the Latter-day Saints that the translation of the Book of Mormon by means of the Urim and LESSON DEPARTMENT Thummin was not merely a perfunctory matter but was accomplished only by means of intense intellectual and spiritual effort. Doubtless the same attitude was essential in connection with the receiving of revelations. God is always pleased to reward those who diligently serve him, but he makes no promise to the idler or the indisposed. 15. An illustration in point is the case of Oliver Cowdery who had failed in his attempts at translation even after the gift had been granted unto him in response to request. A trenchant criticism at the hand of the Lord is contained in the following words: "Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me. But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right." (Doc. And Cov., Section 9:7, 8.) 16. Direct Inspiration. There appears to be little room for doubt that the Prophet received most of his revelations as the result of intense intellectual and spiritual concentration, without the use of any intermediate means. His statement to the effect that "The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened" (Section 110:1) bears witness of this fact. He further states that the visions at times rolled like an overflowing surge before his mind, and that the still small voice often times "maketh my bones to quake." (Doc. And Cov. 85:6.) When the spirit of God burns within a human being there is no mistaking its influence. 17. Manner in which some of the Revelations were Received. Some 491 of the revelations were received in the presence of witnesses. Section 29 for example contains a revelation inspired in the presence of six EIders. Elder Parley P. Pratt who was present when the revelation contained in Section 50 was received has left the following statement: explanatory of the manner in which it and other revelations were given. "Each sentence was uttered slowly and very distinctly, and with a pause between each, sufficiently long for it to be recorded by an ordinary writer in long hand. This was the manner in which all his written revelations were dictated and written. There was never any hesitation, reviewing, or reading back in order to keep the run of the subject; neither did any of these communications undergo revisions, interlinings or corrections. As he dictated them so they stood, so far as I have witnessed; and I was present to witness the dictation of several communications of several pages each." (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, pp. 65-66. ) 18. The foregoing statement should be supplemented by one of Elder B. H. Roberts to the effect that "some of the early revelations first published in the 'Book of Commandments,' in 1833, were revised by the Prophet himself in the way of correcting errors made by the scribes and publishers; and some additional clauses were inserted to throw increased light upon the subjects treated in the revelations, and paragraphs added, to make the principles or instructions apply to officers not in the Church at the time some of the earlier revelations were given. The addition of verses 65, 66 and 67 in Section XX of the Doctrine and Covenants is an example." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 173.)  Teachers' Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives. During the early part of His public ministry, high up in the hills of Galilee, overlooking the sea, Christ delivered the Sermon on the Mount to His disciples and the multitude. It is His longest public discourse recorded, and contains some of the best known and most' loved of His teachings. The talk was given with the utmost solemnity, while the Master sat, as was the custom then, on such occasions. It made a profound impression on those fortunate listeners, as it has done, also, on subsequent generations. It is a specimen of the general tenor of our Lord's teaching, 'every syllable of it He had already written down in deeds." "He not only taught the gospel, [He was ithe Gospel." He had been healing the sick, and then after a night spent in prayer (Luke 6:12), He gave this beautiful and practical sermon. The Beatitudes are a 'well known part of this Sermon, and form an authoritative moral code, or ideal. They contain "the heart of the Master's teachings, and show His spirit and way of life." They furnish a true picture of the "Man of Galilee," a sort of autobiography of His real life. A real disciple of Christ should have a character made up of these traits. The Beatitudes show men where, and how to obtain happiness, as the word "'blessed"' is translated to mean happy. "'Blessedness is higher than happiness. HapPiness is dependent on circumstances; blessedness is a fountain of joy in the soul itself, which no outward circumstances can seriously affect." It seems an appropriate time to consider carefully these beautiful and comforting truths, which are as real today as when they were given by our Savior. The first four are individual or. Personal?relating to man's inner life. The remainder are social? dealing with man's relations to other men. Beatitudes: "Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." Matt. 5:3. What fs meant in this first Beatitude?being "poor in spirit?" Is it not humility, which renders us teachable, and eager to learn, with the resultant joy of development and growth? They who feel themselves spiritually poor, approach God, asking Him to supply their needs. Poverty, of spirit is opposite to pride, self-righteousness and_ self-conceit. It is quite different from poverty of outward circumstances. They who have faith in Him learn of His laws, and try diligently to obey them, and thus prepare themselves to'enter His kingdom. "This is the consummation of blessedness, real, yet waiting to be realized." Jesus opened the blessed life to all His children, even the simple and uneducated. There are no class distinctions among the poor in spirit. He mingled among men, and ministered unto them, and they flocked around Him. "All people were very LESSON DEPARTMENT attentive to hear Him." Luke 19: 48, "If one thing more than another marks the life of the Savior, it is His intense, yet sane, love for his fellowmen. In every act of His life, He reveals His great hearted solicitude for them. Particularly toward the weak and lowly were His sym493 pathies shown." Art of Teaching? Driggs. References: Proverbs 29:23. Isaiah 57:15. Matthew 7:21; 23:12; 18:3. Luke 18:9-15 III Nephi 2:33. Doctrine and Covenants 56:18. Literature (Third Week in October) THE 'DELIGHT OF GREAT Booxs "There is something constant in human nature. There are facts of life which do not depend upon fashion for existence, nor upon philosophy for their importance."?Erskine, Every man wants to know more of life than lies within his grasp. There is no better source of satisfaction for this "divine discontent" than literature affords, because the source of all literature is human experience. The writer of a book is an interpreter. He selects from life such experiences as seem to him noteworthy, or beautiful, or true. Hence it is life itself we shall better understand by reading great books. As one writer has said: "Literature, then, is within you. The Masters only bring it out. It is to your soul that they cry 'Open Sesame'." It is through art that man has found an outlet. The expression of an artist is the adjustment of the individual to "that tension called life." "It is by art and by religion men have always sought rest," says Havelock Ellis, speaking as truthfully for the participant as for the creator. To feel deeply about life is not only the characteristic of the artist but also of the reader; the first finds delight in creation, the second finds delight in discovery. How then shall the individual find the royal road to the delight of great books? To the inexperienced traveler on the literary highway, the "stop signs" of literary critics are immensely significant. They have the power to guide him out of the baffling labyrinth of small arterials to the main highway of literature. A literary critic today assumes a great responsibility, because there is so much to choose from and so many to please. In accepting the guidanceof a critic one must feel assured of his sincerity, his faithfulness to his art, his ability to evaluate life. How simple and appealing is this advice of John Erskine, literary critic and commentator: "Read great books without any other preparation than life has given you. The authors of great books assumed in their readers an experience of life and an interest in human nature, nothing more." It was the confidence inspired by John Erskine's essay, "The Delight of Great! Books," that led to the selection of the book as the literary guide and interpreter for the coming season's work in literature for the women of the National Woman's 494 Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. John Erskine: John Erskine, author, musician, scholar, and teacher, is Scotch in ancestry and American in idealism. He has been teaching and writing for twenty-five years. Scholars from all over the world go to Columbia University for the message he embodies in his lectures on literature. During the World War, he was educational director of the American Expeditionary Forces at the University of Beaune, France. In 1919 he was made Chevalier de la Legion d'Honneur. For many years John Erskine has been a frequent contributor to the following magazines as a commentator of life, literature, and manners: American Mercury, Bookman, Century, Current Opinion, Delineator, Etude, North American Review, Outlook, Saturday Review of Literature. He was coeditor of the Cambridge History of American Literature 1917-1919. As a musician of exceptional ability with a special interest in adult-education in music, Mr. Erskine has been connected with Boston Conservatory of Music during recent years.. In an interesting close-up Robert Davis describes John Erskine thus: "A noble profile gilded with mirth, here is imagination, intellect, and vision." Mr, Erskine writes with smooth adequacy, keen wit, friendly satire, and flashes of delicious irony. His literary works include stories, novels, dramas, poems, and essays. The early novels are: "The Private Life of Helen of Troy," "Sir Galahad," "Adam and Eve," ''Penelope's Man." In these novels the author has touched the immortal legends 'with a penetration and a humor so that these mighty people RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "take on a humanity more endearing than any amount of godhood." They hold the mirror up to our natures and we see ourselves and this modern world deliciously criticized. The essays of John Erskine critical and familiar, are in the main upon Life, Literature, Books, Authors. The outstanding essays are included in the following: "The Moral Obligations to be Intelligent," "The Kinds of Poetry," "The Literary Discipline," ''American Character," "The Delight of Great Books." A few quotations will best serve to demonstrate the immense understanding of human nature and the brilliant repartee of the author. Education?"Teaching is a process of companionship and silent encouragement. * * * Keep away from young minds unless you have something stimulating to impart." Culture?"Culture is the bouquet, the aroma of experience. It is a happy dispensation of nature that we can refine our qualities and gifts by using them." Intelligence?'"The intelligence that changes most fears into opportunity is most divine." Service?"The service we dream of is such education, such religion, such science as will increase in all men the abundance of life." The Delight of Great Books: "The Delight of Great Books" is a series of essays which discuss the aspects which have made immortal the following great books: '"Canterbury Tales," "Le Morte D'Ar thur," "The Faerie Queen," "Romeo and Juliet," "Paradise Lost," Walter Scott, "Don Juan," "Moby Dick," "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel," "Huckleberry Finn,' 'Candida," Modern Irish Poetry. A great book never grows old, it grows greater. Each great civilization has produced only a few great books with the exception of the Greeks. The sacred books embodying the religious teachings of LESSON DEPARTMENT the world take the first place; the great epic poems recording the life and ideals of great civilizations rank next; the great dramas and novels reflecting life are given third place. There are not many in all. In many ' cases it has taken generations to find a great book. We are still discovering Shakespeare, Dante, and Goethe. The words of Job take grander meanings each time we read them, because the great poet spoke only universal truth thousands of years ago. The same holds true of the works of all great writers. And so the book that we enjoy the first time will unfold new meanings with each reading until we begin to find the wisdom of life embodied there, then and only then comes the greatest delight in a great book. The Bible: "Born in the East and clothed in Oriental form and imagery, the Bible walks the ways of all the world with familiar feet and enters land after land to find its own everywhere. It has learned to speak in hundreds of languages to the heart of man. It comes into the palace to tell the monarch that he is a servant of the Most High, and into the cottage to assure the peasant that he is a son of God. Children listen to its stories with wonder and delight, and wise men ponder them as parables of life. It has a word of peace for the time of peril, a word of comfort for the. Day of calamity, a word of light for the hour of darkness. Its oracles are repeated in the assembly of the people, and its counsels whispered in the ear of the lonely. The wicked and the proud tremble at its warning, but to the wounded and the penitent it has a mother's voice. The wilderness and the solitary place have been made glad by it, and the fire on the hearth has lit the reading 495 of its well-worn page. It has woven itself into our deepest affections and colored our dearest dreams; so that love and friendship, sympathy and devotion, memory and hope, put on the beautiful garments of its treasured speech, breathing of frankincense and myrrh. "Above the cradle and beside the grave its great words come to us uncalled. They fill our prayers with power larger than we know, and the beauty of them lingers on our ear long after the sermons which they adorned have been forgotten. They return to us swiftly and quietly, like doves flying from far away. They surprise us with new meanings, like springs of water breaking forth from the mountain beside a long-trodden path. They grow richer, as pearls do when they are worn near the heart. "No man is poor or desolate who has this treasure for his own. When the landscape darkens and ' the trembling pilgrim comes to the Valley named of the Shadow, he is not afraid to enter; he takes the rod and staff of Scripture in his hand; he says to friend and comrade, 'Goodby; we shall meet again;' and comforted by that support, he goes toward the lonely pass as one who walks through darkness into light." ?'"Companionable 'Books,' Henry Van Dyke. St. Jerome long ago called the Bible "A divine library." Today the Bible is recognized as, not one book, but a library, consisting of sixty-six books bound together. Practically every kind of literature is included in it?history, biography, essay, epistle, drama, oratory, lyric poetry, and law both civil and ecclesiastical. There are three ways in which we may approach the Bible: As the word of God to teach us what to 496 believe and how to live; as a collection of historical books reflecting the circumstances under which they were produced; as literature?''a noble and impassioned interpretation of nature and life, uttered in language of beauty' and sublimity, touched with the vivid colors of human personality, and embodied in forms of enduring literary art." To the lover of the Bible the divine is revealed in any approach. John Milton whose love of the Bible was as exalted as his poetic powers has paid this tribute to the Book of Psalms, the sublime in 'Hebraic poetry: "Not in their divine arguments alone, but in the art of composition, the Psalms may be easily made to appear over all kinds of lyric poetry incomparable." The Psalms or praise songs was the hymn-book of the Jews. It is not the work of a single author but a golden treasury of lyrics of man's communion with God from the beginning of time. The chief characteristic of the Psalms is their spirituality: the love of nature; the beauty of holiness; the intense joy in God. "The Book of Job' has been called "the world's great book.' Carlyle justifies his estimate of the drama of Job in the fact that it teaches a workable philosophy of life?'"Love not pleasure; love God." The drama handles the oldest and the most insoluble problem that men have ever tried to solve?the mystery of evil. The literary method of the book is unique. Instead of an abstract philosophical discussion, we see the actual portrayal of an individual, so righteous that God testifies to his integrity, suffering bereavement, poverty, and mortal pain. Job does not find a solution to the mystery of evil; he discovers a great truth? the love of God is not the result of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hope of reward. Day by day the significance of the universal message of the drama of Job is growing in greatness. The Hebrews unconsciously discovered the. Art of the short story. The beautiful stories of Ruth, Jonah, and Esther, are evidence of this. The stories were not the mere indulgence of imagination or entertainment, but always to teach a great lesson; a lesson of tolerance as in the story of Ruth; to give a higher conception of God as in the story of Jonah; to encourage patriotism as in the story of Esther. A vast body of Hebrew wisdom is collected in the Book of Proverbs. This collection might be designated as a code of living, as it gives expression to ideas of profound insight. Much wisdom is also contained in the Book of Ecclesiastes, a discussion in essay form on the purpose of life. Lyman Abbott, a great Bible student, comments on the book: "Thus the Book of Ecclesiastes portrays the complicated experiences of life; the monologues portray the conflict of a single soul at war with himself, weighing the contrasted experiences of life over against one another.
"No other book in all the world reflects so many aspects of human experience as the Bible. It is this vital quality in the narratives, the poems, the allegories, the meditations, the discourses, the letters gathered in this book that gives it first place among the books of the world not only for currency, but also for greatness."
"No other book in the world has had such influence on human life as the Bible. It would be impossible to record the works of art recording thoughts and emotions having origin in the Bible?all sculpture like Michelangelo's "Moses;" all paint-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
ing like Raphael's "Sistine Madonna;" all music like Handel's "Messiah;" all literature like Milton's "Paradise Lost." It would be impossible to measure the influence of the Bible upon literature. Many authors have given their efforts to this illuminating problem as "Shakespeare's Knowledge and Use of the Bible," "The Bible in Browning," "The Bible in Tennyson." Then there are the great masterpieces directly dependent upon Bible influence as "The Pilgrim's Progress," "Paradise Lost," "Paradise Regained," "A Death in the Desert." The largest and most varied influence is the indirect influence as literature in all its forms reflects life in all its phases and man in his attempt to fulfill the measure of his creator and attain immortality.
Suggestions for Study:
A. Materials.
The Delight of Great Books, Erskine.
The Bible.
Companionable Books, Van Dyke.
The Greatest Books in the World, Porter.
Life and Literature, Hearn.
B. Projects.
It will be noted in the lessons as they are prepared for this course, the customary questions have
497
been eliminated. The project has been substituted for the questions. The purpose of the project is to provide enrichment and added enjoyment. Some of the projects can be used for the opening program, the music and reading, thus making an interesting coordinated unit for the meeting. Also the several projects can be given the members, and thus bring into participation many members other than the class leader.
The Bible in Art. The Bible in Music. The Bible in Literature. The Story of Job. The Story of Ruth. Intimate Sketch of John Erskine.
C. Method.
The title of the guide book reveals the approach?to create a delight in great books. Never has there been a greater opportunity for the literature course than today. The tensions of life were never more complex. We, the mothers, the women, who are called upon to meet the tensions for self and for loved ones, need help and encouragement. This succor must come, not from an escape from reality but from a greater understanding of life. The lessons in literature can perform this great mission if they are made simple and human, breathing the things of the spirit.
 
Social Service Conduct
CHILD CONTROL PROBLEMS RELATED TO CHILD HEALTH AND PROTECTION (Fourth Week in October)
I. CHILD CARE IN HISTORY
At the opening of the White House Conference in Washington in 1930, President Hoover said: "We approach all problems of childhood with affection. Theirs is the province of joy and good humor. They are the most wholesome part of the race, the sweetest, for they are fresher from the hands of God. Whimsical, ingenious, mischievous, we live a life of apprehension as to what their opinion may be of us; a life of defense against their terrifying energy; we put them to bed with a sense of relief and a lingering of devotion. We envy them the freshness of adventure and discovery of life; we mourn over the disappointments they will meet.
"The fundamental purpose of this conference is to set forth an understanding of those safeguards which will assure to them health in mind and body. There are safeguards and services to childhood which can be provided by the community, the State, or the Nation?all of which are beyond the reach of the individual parent. We approach these problems in no spirit of diminishing the responsibilities and values or invading the sanctities of those primary safeguards to child life?their homes and their mothers. After we have determined every scientific fact, after we have erected every public safeguard, after we have constructed every edifice for education or training or hospitalization or play, yet all these things are but a tithe of the physical, moral, and spiritual gifts which motherhood gives and home confers. None of these things carry that affection, that devotion of soul, which is the great endowment from mothers. Our purpose here today is to consider and give our mite of help to strengthen her hand that her boy and girl may have a fair chance."
This attitude toward assuring children their "province of joy and good humor" has not always been characteristic of this world of ours. Throughout the report of the White House conference there are allusions to historical comparisons. The aim of this lesson is to build an appreciative background from a brief historical lesson for the interpretation of the problems in the course. No movement looking forward to social changes can be thoroughly understood by people who have no feeling for its place in the general progressive development of the world.
Suggestions on procedure: The class teacher can call attention to the allusions in the "White House Conference, 1930," report. Each one can be read and explained. Where the explanation is difficult reference can be made to the material given below. The whole process should be an introductory class study leading to a feeling of the value of recent attempts to give children better care and training. It is not intended that the facts in the lesson be memorized formally.
The Allusions: Charity and community-parental responsibility, p. 16. "The Slaughter of the Innocents," p. 18. Aristotle and the Greeks, p. 134. Earlier Civilizations, p. 153.
A good procedure might be to have the class members bring their magazines to class and read together the following material. The general impression so gained will make clear the above allusions. Or the various topics could be assigned in advance to individuals for study and report. The class period would then be used for making reports and asking and answering questions. Local laws and their enforcement
LESSON DEPARTMENT
in each community should be carefully considered. Note questions in the supplementary material.
Supplementary Material:
Children in earlier civilizations.
History begins with the fact that children were welcome. To become parents was almost universally a great honor and childless couples were often made the objects of social disrespect. But children were a means to economic protection in old age and the perpetuation of the family name in civic activities. Boys were more welcome than girls. Humanitarianism in child care was relatively unknown. It was a test of vitality to survive. Mortality was enormous. In most countries the children were cared for wholly by the women until past the age of five or six or seven, and in Persia it was openly stated that this was to save the father from acquaintanceship with his offspring and subsequent sorrow in case the child died. Infanticide was common in most countries. The biological parental interest in children was manifest in their care. The crude feeding, the often severe education, the peculiar and unhealthful type of dress such as swaddling cloths, and other customs were the products of the general lack of knowledge of the times. Children played. In every country toys, games, festivals, etc., are mentioned frequently. From the graves of children, dolls, pottery, grotesque animals, and other playthings have been recovered. Religious ceremonials and mystic rites were practiced for the children in all countries. Parental obedience was rigidly enforced until early adolescence in most countries when ceremonies released the parent from responsibility and the child from his allegiance. The beginnings of the historical life
499
of Jesus at twelve years is an expression of this release at adolescence. The social resentment among the people when the children were brought before Jesus indicates how little consideration was given them in civic affairs. Jesus' startling declaration "For of such is the Kingdom of Heaven" was an unusual doctrine.
As the middle ages laid the foundation for our later civilizations certain trends became common. The natural tendencies of childhood were looked upon as evil. Child training was therefore a process of disciplining, hardening, and overcoming these childish ways. Feeding, housing and dressing, except among the high classes were often crudely and illy done. Children in the early colonies were made to stand up and eat hurriedly so they would be out of the way. The children must learn to go without. Punishments for the most minor offenses were severe and cruel because the child needed correction and "bringing up." Children were made to work at an early age and often very hard. Schooling was not common. Such as was provided was formal, literary in content, and often enforced with the dunce stool, lash and other means of physical pain. Courtesy meant being like an adult, not like a child. The child characters in the literature of the period show the effects of these customs. Children went without hats to harden them and their feet were wet or uncared for to toughen them. The children played, but not freely nor happily. Laws and orders prohibited play in the streets or noise or interference with religious devotions. Throughout the period every plan seemed to be to depress children. Laws were passed in the American colonies against swimming, but not
500
skating. Children were forbidden to sleigh ride. Toys were found in great variety. Child mortality was high. The childhood diseases were common and terrible. Youth grew up in an atmosphere of fear both regarding this world and the next.
Modern Developments:
Four movements have marked development toward our own better day. Child labor control, compulsory education, welfare work, development of child psychology.
Child Labor:
Questions: Are children employed in mills, factories, stores, etc., in your community? Under what conditions do children do farm work in your community? What are the hours and days of labor? Is the physical welfare of the child safeguarded? Does such labor deny the children educational opportunities?
The problem is not the incidental employment of children in the home. It is the question of the regular employment of children in gainful pursuits at the sacrifice of education, play and recreation, and the right to grow physically in a normal way. It is the problem of using children by parents or employers as a means of economic profit. Until the middle of the nineteenth century the details are full of horror. Gradually conditions have improved until by 1929 all of the American states except two had minimum age laws and regulations of the conditions of employment and school attendance. Two-thirds of the states require physical examinations of all employed children. Federal child labor legislation has failed in America because of constitutional limitations. Two laws have been declared unconstitutional. In 1924 Congress passed a constitutional amendment which would give the government power to reg-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ulate the employment of children under eighteen years of age. This has been ratified by only five states. It is still pending.
The development of laws to protect children has been long and world wide. In England as early as 1802 a law was passed to humanize the labor and living conditions of the pauper children, many of whom were in the factories at seven years of age. As late as 1833 children were found working fifteen hours a day. Regulations of hours of labor, prohibition of night work, requirements of the simplest elements of sanitation, part time school attendance all came by the end of the nineteenth century.
Compulsory School Attendance:
Blanchard says: "From the era when the public conscience was first aroused against child labor, the laws of compulsory school attendance have been bequeathed to our own times." (Blanchard: "The Child and Society," p. 114.)
The first child labor law in America was passed in Massachusetts in 1842. Ten years later the same state passed the first modern compulsory education law. Schooling had at first been wholly a voluntary opportunity furnished by parents who could provide it. Then came charitable efforts to make education available for the poor children. These movements were later partly supported by the public. By 1825 it had become clearly recognized that taxation for schools was fair and right and the campaign for tax-supported schools was on. The principle involved was generally accepted by the time of the Civil War in America. Opportunities for education were opened up to boys and girls alike. Then began the struggle to guarantee school training as against parental selfish-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
ness or neglect and against the industrial exploitation of children at the expense of education. The demand for schooling in order to build citizenship had created the school facilities. Patriotism and citizenship demanded that children attend school. Laws to require this gradually appeared. Nineteen states had such legislation by 1883; six more by 1890. At the present time every state in the United States has a compulsory education law which assures to every child school opportunities up to a minimum amount or a given age.
Charity and Welfare Agencies:
At the beginning of the nineteenth century dependent and destitute children were given to families at their homes, farmed out to the lowest bidder, cared for by a contract method by the lowest bidder, supported in almshouses, or indentured or bound out as workers to responsible persons. The common rules for indenture indicated the dangers involved. Such rules almost always provided that the indentured servant must receive maintenance and vocational instruction and must not be injured or mistreated. Private orphanages and other charities were developing. In 1797 the society for the relief of poor widows with small children was organized in New York City. This was among the first such charitable institutions to give relief in the homes rather than create institutions. The first half century following was marked by some developments in medical care and schooling in the institutions, a reduction in the tendency to farm children out and a fixing of ages of from ten to twelve as the youngest at which children could become indentured servants. The removal of children from the poor-houses or alms houses marked
501
the period following the Ohio law of 1866 which provided for tax supported homes to care for needy children. There was rapid growth in the number of these public institutions and in the formulated relationships with the then rapidly developing public school system. Under this plan also developed the more humane system of family placement and adoption in place of the more cruel binding-out of children or apprenticeship. Just preceding 1900 there developed the ideal of prevention of destitution and dependency by the temporary relief of the home. The first mothers' pension laws were passed by Missouri and Illinois in 1911.
A different type of problem is created by the child who is neglected somewhat willfully by parents. The interference of government in such cases was recognized before 1800. By 1825 it was generally agreed that it is the right and duty of public authorities to intervene in cases of parental cruelty or neglect and to remove the children by force if necessary. As early as 1819 a voluntary society for the prevention of pauperism called attention to the terrible conditions of children in prisons without any plan for segregation. In 1823 a society for the reformation of juvenile delinquents was organized and in 1825 a house of refuge was established for this purpose. A similar institution was organized by the city of Boston in 1826. The movement spread to cities and states. The first state institution was in Massachusetts in 1847. By 1856 the idea of the cottage plan of organization was developing, to be followed later by open grounds, the removal of bars and bolts, and the adoption of our fine educational systems for retrieving the delinquent
502
child and restoring him to citizenship. The probation plan began about 1869 and developed rapidly about 1900. The first American court devoted wholly to children's cases seems to have been established in Chicago in 1899. All of the states now have separate juvenile court laws.
Very recently mental hygiene has become a prominent problem of study in connection with the care of children. School programs and juvenile court work are based on facts concerning the entire child. Efforts are made to locate the problem children as early as possible. The visiting teacher movement is an expression of this interest. The use of visiting teachers began in 1906 in connection with settlement house work. Gradually these workers are becoming regular parts of our public child welfare staffs.
On the positive side the development away from prohibition of play to public provision of opportunities for play have been interesting. From 1890 to 1900 charity began to provide playgrounds for children. By 1910 city departments on parks and recreation began to appear. The Playground and Recreation Association of America, founded in 1907, has been active both in promoting this movement and in directing its growth.
The Scientific Study of Children:
The break with the philosophy which controlled the conduct toward children in the middle centuries came in the opening sentences of the "Emile" by Jean Jacques Rousseau. "Everything is good as it comes from the hands of God, everything degenerates in the hands of man."
In 1795 Desessartz, a French physician, wrote: "I have no other interest in composing
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
this (treatise) than to be useful to the great number of children, victims of a routine the more dangerous because it is that of women who do not know how to do what they have to do, and who believe themselves homicides if in their treatment of their nurslings they dare to leave out or change anything from the conduct of their mothers." (Quoted by Forest: "Preschool Education," p. 136.)
The present century has been marked by unusually rapid developments in the scientific study of children. The use of the diary or genetic type of child study has developed. Thorndike developed an experimental technique for studying animals which has been applied with remarkable success to the study of small children. The field of mental testing has developed and has been extended down to include somewhat accurate measures at three months of age. The method of psychoanalysis, while not as objective or reliable as the ones just mentioned, has been helpful especially in directing attention to the permanent effect of certain early experiences of children. The mental hygiene movement directs attention to the fact that the whole child adjusts to its whole environment. It utilizes all of the techniques of study that have been developed.
Today therefore mothers can know how to do the things they have to do. "Among these recent developments some of the most striking belong to the field of child welfare. During the present century the State has taken a more intimate and effective interest in the wellbeing of the child than ever before. Public-health work has succeeded in adding several years to the child's life. The juvenile-court movement and mental hygiene have helped to combat disorders of conduct. A totally new conception of public relief work has succeeded in preventing much child dependency and in treating the remainder in a more humane manner. An altogether changed conception of the school has brought it into
LESSON DEPARTMENT
closer relationship with life and has been preparing the child for his vocation in a more adequate manner. Altogether the newer interest of the State in the social problems of childhood constitutes a most remarkable chapter in the Twentieth Century's story of Achievement." (Furfey: "Social Problems of Childhood," pp. 1-2.)
The better economic conditions under which children are raised, the wealth of scientific knowledge concerning childhood and the idealism of western civilization all inspire
503
better trained parents to give children the best care ever known in history.
References:
Blanchard: "The Child and Society," p. 114.
Forest: "Preschool Education," p. 136.
Furfey: "Social Problems of Childhood," pp. 1-2.
"The Children's Charter," Relief Society Magazine, May, 1931.