"By Grace Ye Are Saved" By Nephi Jensen
"THAT the source of all goodness in us is a Power not ourselves is a fact which great and good men have recognized in some way in every age." This profound conclusion is expressed by Dr. Walter Goodnow Everett in his truly great text book, "Moral Values." St. Paul was one of these "great and good men." He affirmed in the most positive way that our essential goodness is God-inspired. To the Ephesians he declared that even in a moral and spiritual sense we are God's "workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works." Lest his followers might fall into the error of thinking that they could, unaided by divine power, attain to moral and spiritual worthiness, he averred that salvation was "not of works lest any man should boast." These two quotations appear in the same context. They are parts of Paul's exposition of his famous doctrine of salvation "by grace through faith."
After Paul came two great divergent schools of theological thought. Pelagius, the leader of one group, insisted that salvation was by works. St. Augustine, the founder of the other school, affirmed that salvation was essentially by grace. The failure of these divergent groups to harmonize, as Paul does, deliverance from sin by both grace and works has produced tens of thousands of controversial theological books and pamphlets. Moreover, this lack of comprehension led to the most egregious doctrinal errors and grotesque religious practices.
From over-emphasis of works or outward performances come some of the most silly and revolting practices of the human race. From undue stress on man's part in salvation to the neglect of the inner transformation through heart-purifying faith, came the notion that sacred ordinances, as formal acts in and of themselves had saving efficacy. In Charlemagne's time hundreds of thousands of conquered soldiers were herded to the river by Christian soldiers and forced to be baptized. Like scenes were enacted by the Spanish conquerors of Mexico. These are extreme illustrations of the worthlessness of religious acts or works, disassociated with heart-transforming faith.
The tendency to stress the merely formal side of religion found its most extreme expression in the fifteenth century. At this time Christianity had become so destitute of the inner quickening power that gives validity and vitality to religious ordinances that men sought to obtain immunity from divine punishment for sin by merely complying with a dead formalism. It was against this empty mechanical sacerdotalism that the great Luther revolted. With his unusual religious insight he detected the utter spiritual destitution of his times. He readily saw that religious acts, ordinances and performances uninspired by a life-giving faith were worse than useless. With the zeal of a real crusader he set to work to reform the church. Disgusted with the worse than dead works of his times he commenced to teach justification by faith. This doctrine became his battle cry. But failing
454
to understand the New Testament idea of faith, he went to the extreme of holding that "faith alone without works justifies before God." Other reformers fell in with this fallacy. Calvin, Knox, Wesley and Whitefield all upheld the idea that a mere believing assent to the saving mission of Jesus was the sole requisite to salvation. This doctrine came to be the very cornerstone of Protestantism. It finds its concrete expression in a recent book, "What is the Gospel?" in which we find this language, "What is the faith that saves? It is the simplest thing in the world. Faith does nothing. It just admits that Jesus saves us."
The truth of Paul's doctrine of salvation "by grace through faith" is found neither in dead sacerdotalism nor in the belief of mere passive acceptance of the Saviorhood of the Christ. The truth lies somewhere between these two extremes. Let us see if we can find this precious truth.
To begin with, we must admit that faith is the great eternal saving principle and power; and that this saving power of faith comes to us "by grace." To take any other stand is to deny Paul's positive affirmation. No matter from what angle we approach faith the conclusion is forced upon us that faith is the moral and spiritual uplifting force of the world. "He that cometh to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." In fact no one is moved toward anything that is good, beautiful or true except by the dynamic force of faith. The student trudging up the hill towards the sanctuary of learning is moved by the belief that learning equips him with power to solve life's problems. The artist patiently toiling at his canvas is impelled by the belief
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that the creation of beauty is one of the noblest of life's endeavors. The saint bending meekly at his shrine is inspired by the heart-humbling belief that holiness is one of the greatest of all possessions. In fact what the tug of gravity is to earth, sun and star, faith is to the human heart. It is the moral and spiritual gravity of the universe.
All intellectual, moral and spiritual advancement is essentially a result of inner transformation. An indolent young man suddenly decides to go to college. What has happened to him? He has been converted. A careless-living person decides to change his habits of life. He goes through this same process of conversion. A grossly materialistic person commences to become deeply interested in the spiritual values of goodness and truth. He experiences a change of heart. It is awakened faith that turns the heart to higher things. Of Alma it was said: "According to his faith a mighty change was wrought in his heart." Deliverance from the evils that beset the soul comes through conversion, or complete change of attitude; and this conversion comes through faith.
Take another view of faith. Peter, in defending the proclamation of the gospel to the gentiles, said that God "purified their hearts by faith." And so saying he announced a profound truth. Faith is manifestly a purifier of hearts. Let anyone become profoundly convinced that Jesus Christ died for the sins of the world; that He actually rose from the dead and bequeathed to our bodies immortality, and he will be moved to love the Lord with an all-possessing and transforming love. This love for God is the purest thing in the world. It is a complete panacea for all
"BY GRACE YE ARE SAVED"
earth's moral ills. It purges from the heart every evil and debasing desire and leaves in the heart only the pure gold of holy aspirations.
Or, if we think of faith as a subduing or conquering force, we reach the same conclusion that St. John reached: "This is the victory which overcometh the world even our faith." We conquer the foes of the soul by faith-power and not by will-power. In fact, faith is the stuff of which will is made. I cannot say "I will" unless I can say "I can." And I cannot say "I can" unless I can say "I believe I can." Moreover, if I am rightly disposed I will never say "I will" unless I can say "I believe I ought." Soul-stirring faith in the good and true is back of the will that binds evil desires and passions and gives us the complete "victory" over evil which is salvation.
Having agreed with Paul that salvation comes by heart-purifying and victory-giving faith, let us see if we cannot accept his conclusion that it is "by grace" that we receive this saving power of faith. From whence comes this faith? It is not self-generated. It is God-given. Jesus Christ was the "author and finisher of faith." In His person, His sacrificial suffering, His triumphant victory over death, He revealed to the world the majestic personality, the loving goodness and the omnipotent power of God so impressively that He awakens in human hearts the soul-quickening faith that gives man the victory over sin and sinfulness. He gives us much more than a plan or scheme of human development and progress. He gives us the spiritual power through faith to follow His plan of eternal progress. His gospel is more than a ritualistic
455
formula. It is essentially "the power of God unto salvation."
A simple story will help us understand Paul's philosophy of salvation through God-given power. A traveler on the Sahara Desert became completely enveloped in a blinding sand storm. He lost his way. In his aimless wandering he became exhausted. He fell to the ground through sheer exhaustion and was about to expire. A kindhearted traveler discovered him. He took from his side a canteen containing cool refreshing water and placed it to the lips of the dying man. A deep draught of the life-giving water revived him. By his new-gained strength he got up and walked home. Was this man saved by works? Hardly. He was saved by the grace and goodness of the man who gave him the life-giving water.
What the refreshing water was to that dying man, faith is to the human soul. Faith literally quickens the heartbeat, revives the soul, nerves the will and gives us the life and power to rise and struggle upward to the eternal home of holiness.
The great reformers and their illustrious successors were right in emphasizing, as Paul does, the all-importance of faith as the eternal saving power. They were right in insisting that this saving power comes to us through the grace of God. Wherein did they err? They erred in their understanding of faith. They thought that faith is a mere passive assent to the Saviorhood of Jesus. They have insisted that "faith does nothing." That this is not Paul's idea of faith is clearly evident from his own exposition of his doctrine of salvation "by grace through faith." He puts the essence of the doctrine into these positive
456
pungent words: "We are created in Christ Jesus unto good works." This "creation unto good works" through the righteousness-stimulating power of faith, which is God-given, is the all-important element in the saving process without which salvation is utterly impossible.
But the righteous works which grow out of this faith are also indispensable to the attainment of the eternal victory over evil. If the lost traveler had failed to utilize the strength which was given him by the goodness of the friend he would not have arrived home. In his salvation there was a concurrence of the operation of grace-given strength and self effort. If this lost traveler had fallen limp into the arms of his rescuer and said, "You alone can save me," we should have had a picture of the Protestant idea of salvation "by grace." This notion, however, is totally at variance with Paul's conception. The traveler struggling homeward by this grace-acquired strength illustrates Paul's idea of salvation resulting from the spirit of righteousness, awakened in the soul by the power of Christ, expressing itself in humble obedience and continued good works.
The faith which Paul taught is the mainspring of action, the soul of aspiration and the moral and spiritual energy of the world. Like all energy, faith works, works and ever works. In fact faith that does not work is not only dead, but it is not faith at all. What then does Paul mean when he affirms that salvation is "not of works?" He means that dead works, or works, uninspired by a heartpurifying faith in God, do not transform our lives. Nothing can be so utterly dead and worthless as a means of human emancipation, as religious acts that are not motivated RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by faith in God. Some years ago an ambitious professional man located in one of the Mormon Utah towns. He desired prestige with his neighbors. It occurred to him that he had better join the church. He was baptized, and ever since his life has been a living contradiction. Was this man really baptized? Certainly not. And yet he was properly immersed in water by one who had actual divine authority. What was lacking? There was lacking that one all-important essential to the validity and efficacy of religious acts, or works, which Paul so justly emphasizes—living faith in the living God. The man's baptism was not only "dead works," but an act of actual sacrilege. It was disgusting blasphemy. It was against this worse than dead formalism that Paul inveighs when he iterates and reiterates his noble doctrine of justification by faith. The noble heights of Paul's philosophy of salvation "by grace" is reached when he asserts that salvation is "not of works lest any man should boast." There is imbedded in these simple words one of the most profound of all moral truths. What is its meaning? We shall be aided in finding it by reverting to the man who got lost in the desert. If this man had by unusual self effort crawled to a spring, drunk some refreshing water, and then walked home he would have "whereof to boast."' And that is only a small part of the truth. If he were human he would have actually done the boasting. The folks at home, the neighbors, and all with whom he came in contact would never have heard the last of the heroic achievement. If he had escaped this peril by his own effort he would of course "BY GRACE YE ARE SAVED" have been saved in the sense of being delivered from that one calamity. But he would not have obtained any moral or spiritual victory and spiritual excellence. This conquest of evil and this attainment of spiritual grandeur comes only from love-inspired effort and struggle. The traveler having been saved by utilizing the love-given power of a friend was led to love his savior with that pure love out of which comes all the moral strength and spiritual purity which places us "beyond the power of all our enemies." Paul's doctrine of human emancipation and ennoblement through God-given power is the cardinal Christian doctrine of moral and spiritual progress which distinguishes the Christian religion from paganism. Pagan philosophers give us splendid moral concepts, noble ethical codes and _ far-reaching schemes of human advancement. But they do not give us the power or inclination to follow their profound and rigid rules of conduct. It was left for Jesus of Nazareth to bring into the world the quickening power of faith that sensitizes our moral and spiritual natures and gives us the. Power that drives our hearts towards God and truth. The preeminence of Mormonism as a saving force in the world consists in its very power to stimulate 457 faithe A Mormon missionary in a conversation with a Church of England Sunday School superintendent asked the Anglican if he knew why modern Christian ministers had so little power. The Anglican responded in the negative and added with fervor, "I would like to know." "The ministers are trying to save the world without faith," responded the missionary. "You are right," admitted the Anglican. And the missionary's conclusion is right. Catholicism, with its ancient gorgeous ritual appeals to the imagination. Protestantism, destitute of both ritual and faith appeals to the emotions. Mormonism with its faithinspiring new witnesses for Jesus Christ, in the 'Book of Mormon," the "Doctrine and Covenants" and the "Pearl of Great Price," appeals to rational faith. And its appeal is marvelously effective. It actually awakens in the hearts of those who can comprehend its splendid credentials that soul-stirring faith in Jesus Christ and in His perfect way of life that impels them to obey Him, and work for Him with that self-sacrificing love that purifies the heart, refines the spirit, ennobles the mind, glorifies the character, and gives that complete victory over the foes of the soul which is the highest achievement and perfect salvation.