"A Garden is a Lovesome Thing" By Lais V. Hales "A garden is a lovesome thing, God wot! Rose plot, Fringed pool, Fern'd grot— The veriest school Of peace; and yet the fool Contends that God is not— Not God! In gardens! When the eve is cool? Nay, but I have a sign;. ''Tis very sure God walks in mine."  WE know a garden, now five years old, which is in very truth a "lovesome thing." In it are no rare, costly flowers, but many there are that are precious beyond measure. So many have been given, so few have been bought. Purple lilacs and red peonies, culled from beloved plants at the old home, fill this garden with childhood memories. One plant was carried miles from the home of a friend now dead, while another was planted by baby fingers now grown strong and capable. In this garden there is sweet disorder. The flowers and shrubs have been moved about not so much with the idea of an artistic effect as to find the spot where they will be happiest. Most of the flowers come up year after year and have become old friends. Their promise of color and beauty is remembered and watched for each year. In this garden children play. Friends wonder how children and flowers can thrive together but they do it beautifully. Children soon develop a love and tender interest in flowers. They like to watch the little become bigt—they sense the mystery and the miracle in it. A garden is a child's best introduction to God. We all have a creation-old love for growing things. As compensation to those who struggle with the soil nature gives happiness, peace, kinship with God. To get full measure a garden must not be the result of other peoples' knowledge but rather that of hard work and many failures. It must be the expression of the one who loves it and whose spirit it embodies. The size of a garden is no measure of the love expended there. I often think there is more real love in the heart of the one who tends one sprawly lonely rose bush in a wilderness of ugliness, or coaxes into bloom, by sheer longing and love and labor a few scant flowers, than in that of the one who covers acres with gorgeous blooms. Nor does costliness express love in a garden. Bird baths, pools, gravel walks are lovely but not necessary to happiness in a garden, and often express far less love than a simple worn chair placed to catch the lingering and the stain of the sun at going down on a bed of phlox "spending scarlet like a 3? Woman. Peace and kinship with God a garden gives you. When creeds seem too thick along the way, when questions of the life to come molest, a garden is salvation. Lizette Woodworth Reese saw in the growing and the cutting of the grass an emblem of her life, for she says: "Lord, Love, keep it but so; Thy purpose is full plain; I die that after I may grow As tall, as sweet again." In winter I have stood at my window remembering a bed of scarlet poppies, and though the clotids and "4 GARDEN IS A LOVESOME THING" snowflakes cover, my heart has grown lighter with the thought that: "Back of these clouds somewhere Surely there must be Spring." In a garden the petty things of life drop away. Here life seems good and the tasks worth while. It is the finest place in the world in which to cleanse the mind and soul, and reveal the value of things unseen. "Her garden, bright with blossoms, stirred by wings, Made all the tragedies the newsboys call Seem meaningless, remote, indifferent things. Though murders, could not prevail Against her cloistered peace, yet life brought pain, Through grief for elm trees crippled by the gale, And opening roses battered by the rain." shipwrecks, wars, Life is fleeting and beauty passing. We all know this but where is it brought more forcefully home to us than in a garden? Yet linked with this thought is the one that things die that other things may live. 459 So there is no place for sadness in a garden. Enjoy it in reality the short time it is here and then recall it in the day when beauty lies in the past and only the promise of spring remains. Nothing is given complete in this life for— "God meant me to be hungry, So I should seek to find 'Wisdom, and truth, and beauty, To satisfy my mind. "God meant me to be lonely, Lest I should wish to stay In some green earthly Eden Too long from heaven away. "God meant me to be weary, That I should learn to rest This feeble, aching body Deep in the earth's dark breast." In this age when the "world is too much with us" I make a plea for gardens—those we work in, live in, dream in. Whoever makes a garden has never worked alone— "The rain has always found it, The sun has always known, The wind has blown across it And helped to scatter seeds— Whoever makes a garden Works hand-in-hand with God."