[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | September | Issue: 5 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XLI.
	NATURALLY Mrs. Bland was very lonely
after the Waltons had left America and she
could scarcely wait for news of their safe
arrival. She busied herself as best she
could with household duties, and the train-
ing of her little son the one object of her
especial care and devotion. He was grow-
ing to be a tall boy, and so very like his
father, in both appearance and disposition.
She had many plans in her mind concern-
ing his future, but was very seldom think-
ing of her own. Occasionally the absent
cousin Clair, and the companion of his
wanderings would come to her mind, but
she would not allow herself to form any
day-dreams even concerning what might
be should they ever meet again; Maitland
had promised to make special inquiry in

[Column 2]
London about Anna’s brother and let her
know as soon as he possibly could, what
Clair’s future was likely to be. The dull
days dragged on and at last a letter came
saying the family had arrived safely at
Walton Hall, that Mr. Harrison and Clair
Hilliard were in the East Indies at last
accounts, and would probably return shortly.
That was all the message but Mrs. Bland
felt better now, lighter-hearted knowing
the children had reached their home, and
perhaps for the other news of far away
friends.
	One day not long after the letter from
England news was circulated that a ship
was coming in, and Mrs. Bland who sel-
dom went out persuaded by her little son,
who had never seen a ship land, went down
to the shore.
	Ere long the passengers were landed and
Mrs. Bland turned her steps homeward but
she was soon followed, a quick step close
behind her caused her to look and there
seemingly scarcely a day older than when
she had last seen him was Robert Harrison.
He looked at her a moment and his first
words were “Where is my cousin Anna?’’
Explanation followed as they kept on their
way, and soon all was told amidst tears and
sobs. Strange to say Mrs. Bland did not
recall her dream though it had been so
literally fulfilled, until after she had retired
to her own apartments for the night. Mr.
Harrison had left her late and gone to the
public house where his luggage had been
taken, and she scarcely realized that she
was not even then dreaming, except that
repeating so many sad things (for Mr.
Harrison insisted upon knowing all) that
had transpired and had made the past much
more vivid, than for many a day, and she
had to struggle with herself to quiet her
nerves and regain composure after Mr.
Harrison had said good night. Conway
had been fast asleep for hours, the servants
were in bed all except her faithful Josiah
who always kept guard. Her thoughts had
wandered far back to her earlier days at the
Castle, and the many strange incidents that
had transpired there, and how seemingly
presentiments had come to her, and now the
fulfillment of her strange dream; and her
wondering of the future what it would be.
That she loved Mr. Harrison in the best
and truest way her heart demonstrated for
she felt now, he was linked in her life, and
Anna she thought how happy it would have
made her to know that the one relative of
her mother’s was to be dear cousin Jane’s
protector from henceforth, for Mr. Harrison
assured himself as he left Mrs. Bland’s
door that first night, that he should stand
by her and Anna’s children while he lived.
From Mrs. Bland’s account of Maitland he
had concluded he would not take more than
a general interest in the children, and past
experiences of Lady Walton, had not given
him a very high estimate of her ability to
successfully train and rear the children now
committed to her care.
	The love he had felt for Jane Conway
ere he knew of her engagement to Dr.
Bland had been kept in abeyance while she
was a wife, but when he met her as a
widow his heart went out to her and all the
pent-up emotions seemed to redouble their
force, and he determined to offer his hand
and heart; she had spoken to him of young
Barrington, and he had recognized from
what she said, his own nephew, and had
been interested at once; he would find this
young minister and make assurance doubly
sure that he was Sidney Barrington the


[Column 1]
only child of his only sister, who had died
when her boy was born, and the father soon
after. Mr. Harrison had asked Mrs. Bland
several direct questions concerning the
young minister, but she had not in the
least suspected the relationship, nor had it
even struck her as a coincidence that his
uncle was eccentric or away in foreign parts
which Mr. Barrington had said to her
that night when alluding to his loneliness.
	The following morning Mr. Harrison
went direct to John Austin’s humble home,
and inquired for Mr. Barrington. On see-
ing him he was so struck by his resem-
blance to his mother, that he could scarcely
speak, Barrington observing his emotion
and noticing him to be a stranger by his
dress and manner intuitively felt that he
must be his uncle, and the prophetic words
of Mrs. Bland came instantly to his mind,
"he will come and look you up in this new
land.”
	When Mr. Harrison recovered himself
sufficiently, he addressed his nephew
familiarly as though he had always known
him. “Sidney my boy you are so like
your mother I was near breaking down, and
that is an unusual thing for a man at my
time of life, one who has knocked about as
I have in many countries on the land and
on the sea, but it is my good fortune to
find you here in this wild place, and to learn
how you have won the respect and confi-
dence of some of my dear friends, and now
I propose to take you under my special
care, as if I were your own father, and I 
shall ask these good Christian people to get
another preacher, and you shall have a
vacation.”
	The young man could scarce find voice
to reply, he was so completely overcome
with the declaration of his new-found uncle,
who spoke like an oracle, but realizing how
stupid it was not to reply, he roused him-
self and asked, “How did you find me out,
have you been in London recently, did you 
learn of me through Houghton & Co.?”
	“No I’ve not been in London since com-
ing from abroad, I am just from the West
Indies, and had not even thought of you,
except perhaps casually, since I learned you
had taken to the pulpit, but I’m not going
to find fault with you for that, or anything
else, Mrs. Bland tells me you’re a capital
fellow, almost her sole friend here, and that
you stood by Anna my foster-daughter and
were a great solace in her most trying
hours. For these kindnesses alone you
would deserve my gratitude, but as you are
really my kinsman, and as we are somewhat
alone in the world, with no near relatives
we must become better acquainted, and now
if you have breakfasted, let us walk out
together in the open air, and talk of ou[-]
relationship. I am not a man of ceremonies
as you see, but we shall get on agreeably
doubtless, and as you are intimate at Mrs.
Bland’s we will call there later on, and as-
tonish her with the news that we have found
each other.”
	“I was not aware you knew Mrs. Bland
uncle, I only just guessed from what you
said now, that she had told you of me, but
does she not know you are my relative, how
then came she to speak of me, and how did
you know Mrs. Bland?”
	“All these questions in one, I know Mrs.
Bland through Anna Hilliard, and I found
her by accident much as I have you; I was
in London, in the gay season, and met Lady
Anna Hilliard at a party and was struck
with her resemblance to my cousin Clarice
Courtney, and by inquiring learned she

[Column 2]
was her daughter. I called unceremonious-
ly and met Miss Conway since Mrs.Bland and
some other time, I may tell you more, but
for the present, that is sufficient explanation
and now let us go.”
	Once in the open air the two gentlemen
conversed freely, the younger one more
reticent was unwilling to acknowledge he
needed rest or even a change, but he found
his uncle determined to carry his point, and
he finally consented that he would go with
him to good old Deacon Meredith and ask
for his release. Mr. Harrison declared it
must be final, his nephew argued against
it, but the elder man was the stronger, and
when Mrs. Bland joined in the persuasion,
the young minister gave way and the con-
sent was gained; the old Deacon was pro-
fuse in his praise of dear Mr. Barrington,
and so delighted to know of his distinguish-
ed uncle.
	Mr. Harrison received a letter from
Clair not long after his arrival in America,
and as Clair had found that his cousin Jane
was now a widow, and was well aware how
matters stood with Robert Harrison, he
inquired particularly whether there was
any hope of his being successful in winning 
the affections of his cousin, and added,
“she is the bravest, truest, most conscien-
tious, and withal the most superior woman
I have ever known, even Lady Walton
says, she has never seen her equal."	
	Mr. Harrison concealed these inquiries
from Mrs. Bland, but read it all to his
nephew, who coincided and was even more
enthusiastic in her praise. By this time
the two men understood each other very
well, in fact Mr. Harrison was at first very
much afraid, the young minister was him-
self in love with the widow, and the par-
ishioners of conrse had not been slow in
circulating the story of the intimacy, so the
new arrival should hear of it. Mr. Harri-
son however, soon found how matters stood,
and questioned Sidney very closely concern-
ing his friendship for Anna. Sidney ad-
mitted Maitland’s jealousy but explained
that it was totally unfounded, that he had
been strongly attracted to Lady Walton
from the time he first met her on board
ship, and said he “Uncle Robert it was one
of those peculiar fascinations that I seemed
to have no power to control, it was purely
spontaneous, and I believe she felt it as
strongly as I did, for she confided in me
with the utmost freedom, and I could not
account for it, nor can I even now, though
I know the kinship that existed, O, if
Anna could have known we were cousins,
what a pleasure it would have been!”
	Many were the long talks these two had
together. and with Mrs. Bland, but Mr.
Barrington did not lose any of that deep
religious fervor through his association with
his uncle but in this respect he unconscious-
ly helped him to look upward and to be
more spiritual in his character; and indeed
the society with which he mingled Puritani-
cal as it was, lifted him out of himself, and
he grew gradually more religious in tem-
perament through these dominant influences
that were all about him. He was long
past his youth, and even the meridian of
life, and Mrs. Bland when thinking serious-
ly of the future, could not but wonder at
the fate that seemed to suggest that she
should unite herself in marriage the second
time with a man so many years her senior.
Robert Harrison had let her see from the
first how sacredly he held her, and Clair
wrote again and again to her urging her
consent, for said he, "you will need some

[Column 3]
one to help you, even though you are so
self-reliant, my sister Anna’s children are
bound to come to you yet, Maitland is pay-
ing his addresses to one of the society belles
of London, who will never take charge of
another woman’s children, and Lady Wal-
ton looks weary and frail."
	Mrs. Bland's heart gave a great bound
when she read that letter, her love for her
cousin’s children was strong and abiding,
and she longed for them daily and hourly,
but she wavered in her feelings when she
thought of once more entering into marriage
relations. It seemed to her high sense of
justice not quite honorable to the dead,
especially as she recalled how hard it had
been for her to keep her promise to the 
Doctor, after realizing the true state of her
own feelings towards the man, who was
now so ardently and persistently urging
her consent to become his wife. She had a 
number of friends, worthy good women
but no confident, and she decided finally to
talk with Sidney, as she had learned to
speak of him, for he was like her own
brother now almost, so near her own age,
though such women as Jane Bland seem
older than their years. Mr. Harrison had
never told her of his boyish love for his
cousin Clarice, but she had heard it from
those ladies at the London ball, and she
made up her mind he must tell her if the
marriage was to be; she could not ask him, 
and she was in a sort of quandary how to
bring it about. “The old saying all things
come to those who wait,” proved true in
the life of Jane Bland.
	One evening when they were sitting in
her drawing room after dinner, and con-
versation flowed freely, Robert Harrison ad-
dressing Sidney said, "Has Mrs. Bland
ever told you of her interesting and singu-
lar experiences at Hilliard castle?”
	“Never, and I would so like to know
about that old ruin as they all term it, Lady
Walton once told me it was unbearable un-
til after her cousin Jane came to stay there,
her father was seldom at home, and so stern
and unrelenting she was always in awe of
him, and she knew nothing of her mother,
there was not even a portrait of her in the
gallery, nor anywhere, though it is said
she was uncommonly beautiful, and as you
knew her Uncle Robert (she was your own
cousin I believe) suppose you tell us of this
lovely lady, who died so young when there
was everything to live for.”
	I cannot now, at some future, some more
opportune time I mean, but pardon me it is
with great pain I hear her alluded to, her
marriage was most unfortunate, a hurried
affair, brought about by others, she never
loved Sir Edward Hilliard, never could
have loved him, her very opposite in every
thing.” Mrs. Bland watched Mr. Harri-
son scrutinizingly as he spoke of Lady
Hilliard, she had guessed as much, then he
must tell her of this, otherwise she would
never consent to the marriage he so much
desired.
	One day soon after, they were walking
together through a great forest of tall pines,
and while resting underneath the trees, Mr.
Harrison spoke of his boyhood, what a 
pleasure it had been to ramble in the green
fields and parks and grand old woods of
England, and as he talked on enthusiastical-
ly of his sister and his cousin who were his
playmates and companions, he looked up and
said abruptly, I must tell you Jane (Mrs.
Bland I mean) of my boyish love and how
I came to be such a restless rover, wander-
ing from land to land and never satisfied.


