Emma Ray Riggs McKay I'mma Rae McKay Ashton |The members of Relief Society throughout the world love and do honor to Sister McKay on her eighty-third birthday, June 23, 1960.| 66 OTHER, why don't you M ask one of us to run to the basement for you?" plead six willing children, eager to save her steps and to wait on her. "I never ask anyone to do anything for me that I can do for myself,' has been her reply through the years. This complete unselfishness is the keynote to Mother's happy life. "Won't you take the easy chair?" or "Let me help you," or "You may have my share," are familiar phrases we associate with Mother. In her daily routines she has manifested her selflessness. I: very morning she has risen between five and _ six o'clock to prepare a nourishing breakfast for her busy husband and children; every day with no word of complaint she has kept warm the midday meal even though it might be served any time from twelvethirty to two, depending upon Father's appointments; every evening, if Father was detained, she would feed her family but wait for his return before eating herself. "I know it isn't pleasant for Daddy to eat alone," she would remark. She is not only patient, loving, and understanding, but also beautiful in form and feature. One person remarked that she was the most beautiful bride she had ever seen. In her appearance and in her housekeeping she is always neat, and though soft-spoken, she is cheerful Page 348 with a sparkling sense of humor. Her beauty is also from within, from pure thoughts and high ideals. Emma Lucy Gates Bowen wrote these words which, I believe, apply to Mother: "A beautiful, modest, gracious woman ls creation's masterpiece. When to these virtues a woman possesses as guiding stars in her life, righteousness and godliness and an irresistible impulse and desire to make others happy, no one will question if she is classed among those who are the truly great." This sweet, thoughtful little lady, by being the wife of our revered President, followed the pattern set down for her by studious and _ religious ancestors. In his book, Genealogy of the Riggs Family, John H. Wallace, the author, writes: "A prominent characteristic of the Riggs family, through successive generations, has been the large percentage of its members who were highly educated and effective ministers. Many of them have held positions of the highest trust and so many of the daughters of the family married Presbyterian ministers, and in due time became the mothers of Presbyterian ministers themsclves. The value and stability of a family or tribe depend largely upon the intelligence and character of its women, and just so long as it is blessed with educated and dutiful daughters growing into conscientious and = steadfast mothers, it J. M. Heslop FLOWERS IN HER HOME McKAY ARRANGING "ER SIST 350 Bellsmith, Cincinnati OBADIAH H. RIGGS, FATHER OF EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY will live and continue to exert a wide and beneficent influence." Mother's father, Dr. Obadiah H. Riggs, was born near Library, Pennsylvania. He joined the Church and was successfully engaged in teaching in the East until the spring of 1864, when he settled in Salt Lake City. He then resumed his profession and, in 1874, was appointed 'Territorial Superintendent of Schools. Later he returned to the East to study medicine. Mother's maternal grandfather, John Robbins, born in New Jersey during Joseph Smith's time, was an adventurous pioneer. With his wife Phoebe and three young sons, he joined Captain Samuel Brannon's party on the ship Brooklyn, thinking it wiser to travel by boat to Upper California rather than risk the perilous journey across the great plains and mountainous regions. Sailing around Cape Horn to San Francisco, the voyage took six months, and the passengers toward the end of the journey lived on rice and molasses three times a day. 'wo of their young children died on the Atlantic, and a baby daughter was born on the Pacific. They blessed her Georgiana Pacific Robbins. Another daughter, Emma Louise, was born in San Francisco. Later the Robbins family moved to Salt Lake City. BADIAH H. Riggs married the charming, vivacious Emma Louise Robbins, an accomplished pianist and singer who also taught voice and piano. The fifth child and only daughter born to this hap-. Pv couple was Emma Ray. 'Through the vears Mother has often related this amusing anecdote concerning her name. When she was back at Fox and Symons EMMA LOUISE ROBBINS RIGGS MOTHER OF EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Cincinnati studying music, her professor asked her name. "Ray Riggs. Ray is spelled with a'Y."" "No," argued the teacher, "you spell it with an 'E' because it is a girl's name." "But," retorted Mother, "I am the only girl born in a family of five boys, and I was named after a ray of sunshine." "You are perfectly right," agreed the instructor, "you do spell your name with a 'Y.'" "We had such good times together in our family," Mother has always said. "My older brothers could sing from memory all of the popular songs from the current operettas. We sang together by the hour. My mother was always jolly, with naturally red lips and fashing brown eyes. Everyone loved her." I thought, that is the reason for Mother's sparkle and her gay personality and why everyone loves to be with her, too. Having studied piano with her mother and at the Cincinnati Conservatory, naturally music has been an enjoyable hobby of hers. She has often accompanied our family when we have sung together. Another hobby of Mother's is the reading of good literature. "I was never lonely as a girl," she mused, "for I always had the companionship of good books." Indeed, in her girlhood, she was an avid reader of Dickens, Scott, Shakespeare, and other noted authors. She first met Father when he, with his brother 'Thomas E. And his two sisters, Jeannette and Ann, rented an apartment from her mother. These young University of Utah students became acquainted and saw each other occasionally on the 351 C. R. Savage EMMA RAY RIGGS AT THE AGE OF TWELVE campus. At the conclusion of the school year, Mother was invited by the girls to spend a few days at the McKay home in Huntsville. On this visit Father invited her to accompany him to his missionary farewell party. This was their first date. Through correspondence, however, while he was on his mission, their love blossomed. She continued her schooling while he was away, and at the end of four years, with a class of only six members, Mother was graduated from the University of Utah with a B. A. Degree. The next fall she received an offer to teach at the Madison Elementary School in Ogden. When Father returned from his mission, following several months of courtship, they were married 352 January 2, 1901, the first couple to be married in the Salt Lake 'Temple at the turn of the century. They settled down in Ogden where he was principal of the Weber Stake Academy. IVE years after their marriage Father was ordained an apostle. Since conference visits, made by wagon in those days, took him away two or three weeks at a time, much of the responsibility of rearing the family fell to Mother. It was up to her to turn the chairs around at the table for family prayers, and to take time to listen to her little ones with their individual prayers each night and morning. She had much of the responsibility of keeping the standards high and maintaining the spiritual and cultural level of the home. She taught her children to respect the rights of others. She saw to it that the boys attended their quorum meetings, that all of us went to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. 'Tithing was paid Courtesy Emma Ray Riggs McKay EMMA RAY RIGGS WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH GRADUATING CLASS 1895 Seated, left to right: Ralph Varey Chamberlin; Mary Elizabeth Connelly (Kimball); J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Standing, left to right: Emma Ray Riggs (McKay); Herbert 'Thayer Hills; Albert Johannsen. EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY 353 The Thomas Studio DAVID O. McKAY AND EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY WITH THEIR ELDEST SON, DAVID LAWRENCE McKAY, AGE TWO and the Word of Wisdom was kept. In addition to this, Mother was president of the ward Relief Society. Determined to make a success of this position, she bundled her baby, and pushing him in his carriage, made personal visits to the ward sisters inviting them to attend the Relief Society meetings. Her diligence was rewarded. 'The membership increased from twelve sisters to ninety! Later, she was asked to be a counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency. In 1920, when Father and Brother Hugh J. Cannon made their world mission tour, Mother had the full responsibility, for one year, of the home and their six children, Bob the baby being only three months old. At one time during Father's absence, Mother needed a goodly sum of money to pay some obligations. She exhausted all her resources without being able to raise the money. Finally, che night before the money was due, with tears rolling down her cheeks, she knelt by her bed and prayed with all her heart that Heavenly Father would show her a way to obtain this needed sum. The next morning there was a knock at the door. The visitor was Brother John Hall, a member of her stake presidency. He had _ never before paid a social call so Mother was somewhat surprised to see him when she opened the door. His first words were, "Sister McKay, do you 354 The Salt Lake T bie PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY, HIS WIFE EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY, AND THEIR FAMILY Photograph taken January 2, 1951 Front row, left to nght: Francis Ellen Anderson McKay; Robert R. McKay; President David O. Dr. Llewelyn R. McKay; Alice Smith McKay. Back row, left to mght: Conway A. Ashton; Emma Rae McKay Emma Ray Riggs McKay; Sister McKay; Lou Jean McKay. Blood; Ashton; Dr. Edward R. McKay; Lottie Lund McKay; David Lawrence McKay; Mildred Calderwood McKay. One son-in-law, Dr. Russell H. Blood, a Commander in the United States Navy, was absent from the group, as he was serving with the United Nations forces in Korea when this photograph was taken. Need me? When I was down at the corner, something told me to turn up this way." "T should say that I do. Won't you come in and sit down?" She then related her problem and the ways she had tried to solve it. He promptly produced his checkbook from his pocket and wrote her the needed amount. "But, Brother Hall, I have no collateral, and I don't know when I can repay you." "Never mind, David O. Will see to it when he returns." [N the year 1922, Father had been home only a few months from his world mission when he was called to take his family and for two years preside over the European Mission. Mother was set apart as the head of all of the auxiliaries in Europe. Her work in this capacity, her responsibility as mission mother to the 500 missionaries, and her managing of the mission home in Liverpool were creditable activities carried out with much diligence, love, and kindness. Upon their return from this as-