Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent June 1, and June 15, 1900 "Tor Tur Ricurs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RicutTs oF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" DEAR OLD NEW ENGLAND: Among the New England hills memories come back to me that I never recall any other time or in any other place. There is in some of us a sort of heredity... That makes us cling with loving and longing to the haunts of nature in which childhood has been passed.... Journeying from New York... Into the heart of New England among the beautiful villages nestled among the green hills is charming in itself... One hastens from place to place to take a look at familiar scenes of long ago.... Deserted and desolate are many of the homes from which the Latter-day Saints emigrated to Nauvoo early in the Forties. —Aunt Em A RARE JUNE WEDDING: Undoubtedly the month of June is the most delightful of the year to have pretty weddings, and there have been a large number of very elaborate ones this June season, the most significant one, perhaps, being solemnized Jime 29, in the Salt Lake Temple, the ceremony being performed by President George O. Cannon.... The bride and bridegroom were Miss Maud M. Ford of Cleveland, Ohio, and Mr. Leroi C. Snow of Salt Lake.... A royal reception was given by the parents of the bridegroom at the Bee Hive House... Eight hundred invitations had been sent out. The bride was attired in an exquisite gown of soft white material. Bands of music were playing throughout the evening... Everything seemed in keeping with the auspicious union of two young lovers embarking upon the smooth and shining sea of matrimony. —News Note OUR SCANDINAVIAN WOMEN Thank heaven for all these sturdy ones, These men of toil, these women truc, Who, working on through storms and suns, Found naught too hard for their hands to do, And whether on earth or whether above, We open the records of life and love, By the side of the names of our Danish sires, Whose hearts grew warm in the Gospel hght Will our mothers be, for those living fires Have kept them as truly bright. —Alofa PIONEER WOMAN'S PAPER. This number of the paper, June first, nineteen hundred is the commencement of the Twenty-ninth volume of the Woman's Exponent. It is the oldest woman's paper in the West, and the first established except the New North West in Portland, Oregon; that was discontinued several years since. —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN ALBERTA STAKE: President M. L. Woolf rejoiced to see so many young mothers with their babes present. Ielt that the minutes just read were full of inspiration. We must cultivate the spirit of God continually, that our influence may always be felt. President Sarah B. Daines of Cardston felt that the work of Relief Society was a noble mission for the daughters of Zion. Stake Counselor Jane Hinman bore her testimony as to the blessings reccived through testimony and prayer.... Spoke on the principle of obedience. "If we perform our duties as mothers our children will respect and obey us." —Jane W. Bates, Sec. Page 364 MBs. ESTHER HOBART MORRIS was honored recently when an eight-foot bronze statue of her was placed and dedicated to her memory in the United States Capitol's historic Statuary Hall. Mrs. Morris lived in South Pass, Wyoming, and was a noted pioneer in the West's struggle for woman suffrage. No State may have more than two pieces of sculpture in Statuary Hall. This is the first one placed for Wyoming. EVERAL contributors to The , all residents of Salt Lake City, Utah, won honors and awards at the biennial convention of the National League of American Penwomen held in Washington, D. C. In early April. Wilma Boyle Bunker was elected first vice-president of the organization. In the junior book class, Olive W. Burt won first prize with a 25,000-word book Pal of the Hills, and she also received first prize in the tiny-tot stories classification. Grace S. Cozzens placed second in detective stories, and Roxana Farnsworth Hase placed third in the same group. Mabel S. Harmer won third place in stories for adults with a story "