Summer Night Maxine R. Jennings I breathe deep-toned enchantment, and explore The velvet folds of cool, star-studded night. A wandering wind waits just outside my door, With breath rose-scented, and a voice as slight As whispered music in the pale half-light Of guardian stars; nasturtiums, gold by day, Wear shadow lace of navy, woven tight, While crickets move in lyric roundelay, Singing of summer's silver-patterned flight. I drink the hour's fullness, and review A finite world from my heart's highest hill! Was day too cluttered to be truly blue? I let small cares, like grating pebbles, spill Into the darkness that they cannot fill, Grateful that grass can grow and buds unfold, And stars and seasons heed no human will, Rejoicing that the wheel is heaven controlled, That Who created earth creates peace still. Needed By Someone (Continued from page 363) hospital, and the children will be with me. We could talk about the illustrations." The young man's face lighted, then he sat down dejectedly. "We can't keep imposing on you, Mrs. Bigelow." "You're not," she laughed. "You just don't know how large my house seems with my family all gone." "Could we, Daddy?" Caroline chimed in. "I'll help Grandma." "My wife was night," he said. "I think you are an angel." BY nine o'clock, they were all settled in Carsonville. Mr. Freeman rushed back to the hospital for a few minutes, Caroline and Davey were in bed, and Agnes picked up the receiver and placed a call to Mr. Adams. "I'm sorry I couldn't make the appointment," she explained when she heard his voice on the other end of the line. Mr. Adams was silent a moment, then without hesitation, "I'll drive by Carsonville on my return home. I understand it isn't far out of my way, he answered amiably. "Thank you, Mr. Adams. Id like you to meet the man who is going to do the illustrations, too." Five minutes later, the rang, and it was Christine. "Mother darling," her voice soundphone ed excited. "J have the most marvelous news. I thought you'd be going to the writer's conference, and come by here." Agnes explained meeting the Freeman family. "So I didn't go to Bill City, but Mr. Adams is coming by here tomorrow. You haven't Page 400 told me the news. What is it?" "You're going to be a_ grandmother." "Oh, Christine, that's just wonderful — that's just." "We thought we'd come over for a few days." Christine laughed happily. "You know a girl needs her mother to talk to." Agnes swallowed. "Make it soon, dear, I've plenty of room and you'll love the Freeman family. I'm so happy, dear." Agnes hung up the receiver and walked to the bedroom to check on the children. "Y'm awake, Grandma,' Caroline said, sitting up in bed and flipping on the light over the bed. "Why are you smiling?" "IT was just thinking." Agnes sat down on the side of the bed and looked about the room. "Yesterday I felt lonely, no one needed me, I even began to think no one really cared about me. You know, dear, to feel needed by someone, helps one to be happy." "Does it? Am I needed?" the girl asked innocently. "Indeed you are." Agnes ruffled Caroline's curly hair. "You'll never know what you and your family have done for me. Everyone is needed by someone if she'll just open her hands wide to the opportunities." "Oh," the girl answered, a little puzzled. "And right now," Agnes tucked the covers around her little friend, "T need you most to get me used to being called Grandma." "Can I always call you Grandma?" Caroline asked seriously. "Of course you can, darling. Goodnight," and smiling happily, Agnes closed the door softly behind her. on, SO, fe e Ee, meena Mens,