[Vol26 | July 1939 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Psychology of Fads]
Social Service
Lesson 1
Psychology of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions
I. What Are Fads and Crazes Psychologically?
Fads change rapidly and frequently and seldom leave any permanent impression on the habits of a people. They usually consist of some slight change in language, dress or manner. The motivation back of fads is a desire of leaders, or would-be leaders, in friendly relationships to assert that leadership; that is, to attract attention, to be marked off from the rest of the group by some novel difference. Thus, new words are coined or old ones are given a new and vivid usage because it attracts attention to the user. So many changes appear in English usage that someone has called it the "English slanguage". Youths of recent years have made fads of expressions such as "oh, yeah?", "so what?", and "you've got something there". These expressions are usually soon overdone and forgotten, having left little change on our accepted language. The course of most fads is a brief one. They sweep from one group to another in an informal way, being introduced or used by those seeking distinction in the recreational group?the boys' gang, the club, the neighborhood, or the community. But as soon as fads become widespread in the group, they kill themselves as suddenly as they were born. They die because their usage no longer gives distinction or leadership to the users. Aside from the novelty, they serve no purpose.
The term craze does not imply an insane way of doing, but activities which have frenzied social acceptance are called crazes. Fads are of incidental importance in the life of the one who adopts them, but crazes
492 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
take over almost all of a person's spare time. They captivate a person's interests and become preoccupations or obsessions. Crazes do not spread so freely to all classes as do fads; but, like fads, the motivation back of crazes is usually a desire to attract attention. A craze gives a person something novel and interesting to talk about, or it is an activity which will catch the notice of people. A craze "runs itself out," just as a fad does, as soon as it ceases to be novel and to attract attention.
II. A Few Additional Examples of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions.
Fads come and go so quickly that they sometimes spread through only a small part of the population and are quickly forgotten. The radio and movies have greatly speeded up the process by which fads come and go, particularly fads in speech such as slang expressions and "gags". Dress fads are very common, especially among women. During 1937, many new fads arose in women's hats. All sorts of objects from gloves and boots to stuffed birds were worked over into hats. So extreme did the rage become that one person tried the experiment of tying bunches of vegetables or even sink stoppers and chains on the side of the head to see if they would be accepted as hats. (See Life, Dec. 20, 1937, p. 80; see also Dorothy Thompson's reaction to the "hat situation" a year later: Readers Digest, January, 1939, pp. 89, 90.)
Perhaps fads that concern us most vitally are the food and drug fads which sweep the country. We have had vegetarian diets advocated as the "only thing," then there was the fad for gland treatments as panaceas for all human ills. Yeast had its turn as a highly exploited health food. Vitamins and cod liver oil fads also held sway for a longer period but are now being recommended more cautiously. (See Consumers' Research Bulletin, Annual Cumulative Number, Sept., 1938, cols. 195-198.) Obviously, many of these fads are promoted by commercial interests.
Crazes in dances, songs, and games are very common. We from time to time fall into the grip of "catchy" songs which have a brief but violent life. In 1918 it was K-K-K Katy, in 1923 it was Barney Google and Yes, We Have No Bananas. In January of 1936, the Music Goes Round and Round was being accepted with great enthusiasm, but by March 2, 1936
Time magazine reported it was no longer a hit. "Swing" music became a craze in 1936 and still holds considerable popularity in 1939. Other specific dance crazes have been the Charleston, Black Bottom, Big Apple and Lambeth Walk.
In May, 1935, the "send a dime" craze taxed the facilities of the postal service. The idea back of it was to send a dime and a list of names including one's own to a person and to request that he do likewise. Finally, enough dimes would come back to the original names (presumably) to make a huge sum. "Get rich quick" crazes appeal to self-interest in such a manner as to almost always acquire a large following. (See Olson, T., "Brother Can You Share a Dime?" New Republic, May 22, 1935, pp. 43, 44.)
Various marathons, such as walkathons, bicycle endurance races, and dancing marathons are also crazes. In 1928, tree-sitting marathons came; in 1930, dancing marathons; walkathons in 1932; and roller skating marathons in 1936. Even nudism, suicide, and "companionate marriage" have been crazes at one time or another. Bicycle riding became a craze in 1935, when for the first time since 1899 the national production of bicycles exceeded a half a million.
Fashions in dress are so well known we need only mention them. But fashions are also to be found in automobiles, political doctrines, and even in science. The motivation behind fashions is the desire to be marked off from the rank and file of people and to identify oneself with a rather mythical group called "fashionable people". There is usually a desire to attract attention by something new. Fashions change more slowly than fads and crazes because they are less superficial.
A most serious influence fashion may have on us as Latter-day Saints is in the realm of morals. In recent years it has become "fashionable" for both men and women to smoke (of course, it is not fashionable among Latter-day Saints). The use of liquor by men and women has gone through a similar change. The modern newspapers, radio, and movies are making it more difficult for Latter-day Saints to resist this trend of fashion. Whether the fashion of smoking and drinking will crystallize into a custom and remain indefinitely is difficult to predict. So long as it remains a fashion, there is hope that it will "run itself out" by losing its novelty from too common acceptance.
Latter-day Saints should thoroughly understand the subtle influence fashions in the use of liquor and tobacco have upon our attitude toward them. We must guard ourselves against making a sacrifice of ideals for the sake of being fashionable.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 493
III. What Produces Fashion Trends?
How and when fashions will shift is more than anyone can accurately predict. Many attempts have been made to artificially change a trend, but most such attempts have failed. It is true that leaders in fashion have something to do with trends. Before the moving picture industry took firm root, fashions were brought from Paris; but often by the time the pictures were finished fashions had changed. Producers then brought great designers to Hollywood, and it became the fashion center of America. The name "Hollywood" has such prestige that fashions are influenced by the fact alone that they came from there, regardless of their originators. But such a name as Adrian also gives prestige to a creation and may affect fashion trends. However, great fashion centers probably do not create the fashion trends so much as they interpret trends already started and shape them in some ways.
