Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued.) Sunlight at last came back to the heavens. At first, just a tinge as of ashen gray light appeared along the horizon following the sun along its course. The light grew clearer day by day (each revolution of the earth is called a day) until at last we had broad daylight all the time. Then, in March, the sun appeared above the horizon in the south, skimmed along the hills, slowly rising into the sky as it made its daily round. There was great rejoicing on the day when the sun first appeared. Meetings were held in the open air, in spaces cleared of snow. There were speeches, and songs in which the whole multitude took part. The long winter had past, and soon the land would be clothed with green. The warm sun would shine in their sky for nearly six months, and everybody was happy. I also partook of the spirit of the occasion. I was glad to see the sun again. With the coming of the sun, came a wonderful awakening all over the land. During the winter the life had been more hidden, but now it burst forth to be seen and heard. In an incredibly short space of time the snow melted, and the grass began to grow. Then the fields and gardens were filled with men, plowing, digging, sowing, planting. There was hardly time to eat and sleep. Factories were closed, workshops were nearly deserted, and the higher departments in the schools were dismissed until the next winter season. Amid all this activity, I was not neglected. I soon learned that I had been the object of constant attention since the time of my arrival. The rulers of the land and many of the chief men had kept in constant communication with Joseph. It had been suggested that I should be entertained at some of the chief residences, but as I had appeared to be contented in Joseph's home, they thought it best to let me remain there. I was certainly a precious "find," and as such I was to be treated with the utmost care. They were eager to know from Joseph what progress I was making in the language, and there had been great rejoicing when it was learned that I would shortly be able to communicate many things to them. I must say that my importance did not at first appear 278 to me, but later, when I learned more, and had time to think about my position, I could plainly see the possibilities which I presented to the people of this land. I now began, also, to understand what I had missed in not being more studious. I feared that my stock of information of the great world from which I had come would soon be exhausted when the learned men of the land began drawing it from me. I had read some history, both at home and at school, but I was weak in the sciences. Had 1 known something about mechanics, and something of electricity, what a field was here for usefulness! With plenty of iron and other metals, and coal, electric light would be easy. But I knew practically nothing about such things and I don't know whether or not the suggestions I might be able to give would be of any assistance to the learned men here. I have already been experimenting with gas making, and I believe in time, we can displace oil lamps, if not with electricity, with gas. As yet, I have not visited all parts of the land, but from the knowledge I have of this country and its resources, I see no reason why many of the modern improvements known to the world cannot be introduced. Oh, if I only knew more! My heart fails me, when I think of my ignorance, and yet how much depends upon me. I who was as a castaway, a good-for-nothing, who had not found welcome room even in the heart of a simple girl, and now the attraction of a nation, and the care of its most powerful minds. Well, I only hope that I can prove of some service. I feel at home among the people. 1 don't know that I would return to the world had I the chance, not at present, at any rate. One day Father Joseph came into my room, while I was resting from a recently finished journey. I was reading my Bible when he entered, but I laid it down and talked to him. It was in my mind to ask him regarding their religion, and 1 did so. I shall not try to write the exact words that were spoken by us, as they were quite disconnected in places. However, the substance of our conversation was about as follows: "Father Joseph, I wish to know something of your religion. You worship, you sing, and you pray about as the Christians do in the world from which I come. Are you Christians?" I had to explain what I meant by Christian. "Our religion is the gospel of Jesus Christ," he said. "But how did you get that religion?" "From the Lord himself. About 2,000 years ago he appeared to this people, and taught them the gospel. We now have apostles and prophets, and the church is organized BEYOND ARSARETH 279 according to the pattern the Lord showed us." "And you have kept that religion all this time?" "We have had many periods of wickedness, but there has always been enough of the righteous left to hold on to the truth so that the power of the Priesthood was never completely crushed. We have enjoyed great peace now for a long time, although a portion of the people living on the other side of the land are causing much doubt in the minds of many of the young men and women." I was greatly surprised at what I heard. It seems that the Lord had visited this people about the time that he had lived in the land of Palestine. But how could that be. I asked? "Yes. we know that the Lord was born in Bethlehem of Judea; that he lived in that land; and that at Jerusalem he was put to death on the cross." "How do you know that?" "Our records tell us that." I had seen some of their books. They are very crude affairs compared with what the world can make. "But my book tells me the same things, with many more." I picked up my Bible, and turned over its pages. Joseph instantly became deeply interested. He took it and examined it carefully. "What is this?" he asked. "It is a history of God's dealings with part of the world," I tried to explain, for truth to tell, it was hard for me to answer his question. "It tells of Adam and Eve, of Noah, of Abraham, of Moses, and of all the prophets." The old man's eyes glistened. "Go on," he said. "It tells much of the children of Israel, and then of the Savior Jesus, and of what he said and did. And then also of what the men whom the Savior chose to preach his gospel said and did." "The Lord be praised for this," said he, and he clasped the book to his heart. "The Lord be praised for you. You must learn our language, so that you can translate for us this book — that we also may know." "Another big job; " thought I; "I'll have my hands full." "And now," continued Joseph, who appeared to be there chief away with men what in the land. had learned, You must"you showmust them go the with book, me and tell them what it is. I cannot keep this to myself longer." "But, it is hard for me to explain," I pleaded. "Can we not wait for a time. All are busy now." 280 "No," said he, "we must go tomorrow." I was not altogether pleased with the outcome of our conversation. I would much rather have remained where I was, at least until I could use the language better; but all my excuses were of no avail. On the morrow we were off. For many hours we travelled through a busy country of workers, who greeted us pleasantly as we passed. We stopped for rest and sleep in a city, and then we went on again. There was little to see excepting the fields and workers, and the towns, for the most part quite deserted. The roads were smooth and hard and our horses made good progress. At the close of the second day we drove into a large town. The streets were filled with people, coming from the fields to their homes to rest. Here is where the chief men for this part of the land live. I say chief men because I can not translate the names they call them. They have heads of all civil affairs, I understand, as also of religious. Although I rested that night, I hope all will understand that it was not night, that is, it was not dark, but there are the usual divisions of time here, and I shall say day and night to distinguish between them. That night I lodged with a man high in authority, yet his house was quite as simple as many I had seen. I was most cordially received, however. The next day Joseph came for me and we went together to a large assembly room, which was filled with men. I had with me my grip, within which was my Bible. When I saw that assembly of men, mostly elderly, and I knew, wise, I feared greatly. I shook hands with a number who sat on a platform slightly elevated above the floor, and there I sat down with them. A murmur ran through the congregation. Every eye was fixed on me, every ear was intent on what I might say. One patriarch spoke to the men. I understood very little of what he said, but he was explaining who I was and what might be expected of me. Father Joseph next spoke. He soon warmed to his subject and then I caught very little of what he was saying. Then I was asked to tell the assembly about the world and especially about the book which I had. I was greatly afraid as I stood up, but I realized the tremendousness of what I could impart to them and I entered into the spirit of it. In broken sentences, and misused words, mixed, I fear with considerable English and even a Little Norwegian, I talked. I stood before them for fully two hours, and they sat there like so many statues, I told a little of how I had BEYOND ARSARETH 281 arrived in their land; how many brave men had tried to reach the region near the Pole; and how none had ever succeeded. I told of the nations that inhabited the earth, a little of its geography, and history. I tried to explain the steamboat, the railroad, the electric light and many other of the modern inventions; and then I took out my Bible and told what I knew of the book. I acknowledged that I had not read it as faithfully as I should, but since I had been among them I had done much reading, and had come to a realization of the great worth of the record. I told them that what I had was theirs. If I could do them any good that they were to let me know. If they would have patience with me until I learned their language more perfectly, I should be pleased to do my utmost to impart to them all I could of the great world from which they had so long been shut out. The audience was wonderfully moved when I stopped. Tears were in their eyes, and there was a stillness which was profound. Then they broke out into a song of praise and thanksgiving. Further words were spoken by one who was their leader, and then the company dispersed. Father Joseph and I were then taken into a house, whose rooms were the most elegant I had yet seen. They were the guest chambers, I was informed. A number of the prominent officials went with us. Joseph explained that we would remain for some time in this place, so I must make myself at home. This I readily did. We ate our meal together and there was much talk which was as interesting to me as it was to them. It was then suggested that my Bible was too precious to be carried in a bag such as I had, and that it ought to be deposited in the fireproof vault of the house. I readily consented to this, providing I could have free access to it. I now saw clearer than ever that I must know more thoroughly the contents of the book. That evening when the laborers had come home and eaten their meals there was another gathering. This time it was in a large pavilion-like structure, and both men and women came. The women had changed their working clothes and now wore garments, mostly white, relieved by some soft shade of blue or red. Up to that time I had never seen such a gathering. Here was a company of women numbering hundreds, each one of whom reminded me of a beautiful picture I once owned of "Rebecca at the Well." I saw they reminded me of the picture, though in what way I can hardly tell, unless it was in the expression of their faces, the arrangement of their hair, and the hanging of their dresses. The air was yet chilly, so there could be no undue exposure 282 of the body — the fact is, that there is none, even in the warmest days. This gathering was more of a reception than a meeting for formal speaking, although 1 was given a sort of general introduction and then spoke for a short time. Father Joseph and I then mingled freely with the people, shook hands and spoke a few words. It was tiring work but I never was more happy in my life. I felt and saw the welcome meant for me. I believed it came from their hearts without guile or deceit. There was music and chorus singing. I had often seen the harp and heard it played, yet until now I had never appreciated its full beauty. A large band of young girls, arranged on a raised platform, played their instruments together. As I sat there looking over the vast concourse of people, and listening to that music and the hum of voices, I thought of a home that I once had far away; and then I asked myself, what would "she" say could she but see me now. Would it make any difference? I wonder! (To be continued.)