Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart
Simple Desserts for Warm Weather
During warm weather when women are inclined to slight some of the household duties, the one problem of what shall we eat can not be put aside. But with just a little planning much of the worry and use of energy may be eliminated and yet good nourishing food provided. The value of fruit in the diet can not be overestimated. Because of its high mineral content, pleasant flavor and laxative nature, fruit should be served to every member of the family from baby to grandmother. Care should be taken, however, to serve it in the proper form to the person using it. Old people, who perhaps can not eat it in a solid form, will enjoy fruit juices and refreshing fruit drinks.
Fruit is valuable in that it contains a cellulose or fibrous tissue which is not digested, but which exercises the muscle lining of the digestive organs and furnishes bulk or ballast required for a well-balanced diet. In season it is inexpensive and easily prepared. Endless combinations of fruit may be worked out by every housekeeper.
To change the form of fruit desserts frozen mixtures of various kinds may be used. All kinds of small fruits and berries in just plain syrup ices, or with the addition of creams, are easily and quickly prepared. Gelatine desserts to be served with whipped cream or custard sauce may be quickly prepared from cut up fruit or fruit juices. Souffles, custards, whips, bavarian creams and fruit salads are all nourishing, attractive and easily prepared desserts. One need not be confined to the fresh fruits from the garden or orchard for variation. Where these are not obtainable the dried fruits on the market are very valuable as foods and can be utilized in as many ways as the fresh ones. Space will only permit of a few suggestive combinations which may be helpful in making many others.
Pineapple Mousse 1 tb. Gelatine. 2 tb. Lemon juice. 1/4 cup cold water. 1 cup sugar. 1 cup pineapple syrup. 1 quart cream.
Heat syrup, add gelatine soaked in cold water, lemon juice and sugar. Cool and strain and as mixture thickens fold in the cream which has been whipped. Put in mold, pack in salt and ice, let stand several hours.
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 383
Cocoanut Cream 1/2 box gelatine. 1 cup milk. 3/4 cup sugar. 1 ts. Vanilla. 11/2 cups shredded cocoanut. 1 pt. Cream.
Soak gelatine in milk until soft, then set dish in hot water until gelatine is dissolved. Cool, add vanilla, cocoanut and cream which has been whipped. Stir gently until mixture is very thick. Put in molds and cool until firmly set. Serve with fruit juice or custard sauce.
Lemon Vanity
Soak one half box gelatine in one half cup of cold water one half hour. Pour on one pint boiling water, add two cups sugar and the juice of two lemons. Stir until all are dissolved. Set in cool place until it commences to thicken, then fold in the whites of three eggs. Beat with an egg beater until stiff and white, put into mold and set on ice until firm. Serve with whipped cream, jelly sauce, or thin custard.
Fruit Blanc Mange
Stew nice fresh fruit such as cherries, raspberries, strawberries or any of the small fruit, strain off the juice and sweeten to taste. Heat to boiling point, stir in corn starch wet with cold water, allowing two tablespoons to each pint of juice, cook ten or fifteen minutes, turn into mold and set away to cool. Serve with whipped cream and chopped nuts.
Sweet Rubin 1 qt. Water. 1 pt. Fruit juice. 1 cup sago or tapioca. 1 cup sugar. 1 tb. Lemon juice.
Wash sago, drain and let stand one hour. Add boiling water fruit juice and sugar. Cook until sago is clear. Pour into molds and set to cool. Serve with cream.
Chocolate Rice Meringue
Cook rice until tender in boiling salted water. To 1c. Rice, add 1/2c. Sugar. 1 tb. Melted butter. 2 sq. Melted chocolate. 1/2 ts. Vanilla. 1-3 c. Chopped raisins. White of 1 egg beaten stiff. 1/4 c. Beaten cream. Pour in buttered baking dish and bake 15 min. Cover with


meringue made of 1 egg white, 2 tb. Powdered sugar. Brown in oven.
Banana Salad
Peel bananas. Cut in quarters. Dip bananas in syrup of sugar and water that threads, then dip in chopped nuts. Arrange on lettuce cup and serve the following dressing:
2 eggs. 4 tb. Butter. 1/2 c. Lemon juice. 2 tb. Sugar. 1-3 c. Mustard. Speck of salt. 1/2 c. Thick cream. Cayenne.
Beat eggs, add lemon juice slowly, add dry ingredients thoroughly mixed. Cook over hot water until it thickens. Add butter. Cool. Add cream before serving.
Pears and peaches are delicious used the same way.
Fruit Salad
Flavor Lemon Vanity mixture with fruit juice. Cut in cubes or slices. Serve on lettuce with Fruit Salad Dressing.
Fruit cut in small pieces or nuts may be molded in layers in the mixture.
Ice Cream 2 c. Scalded milk. 1 egg. 1 tb. Flour. 1/2 ts. Salt. 1 c. Sugar. 1 qt. Cream. Lemon or vanilla or both.
Mix flour, sugar and salt; make smooth with little cold milk. Stir into hot milk and cook 20 min. Add slowly to beaten egg, to which has been added a little cold milk. Cook 3 to 5 min. Strain cool. Add cream and flavoring and freeze. Pack and let ripen 2 or 3 hours. All kinds of fruit sauces may be served with this as a variation.
Frozen Rhubarb
1 qt. Rhubarb juice and pulp. 1c. Sugar. 1 c. Orange juice. 1 qt. Cream.
Grated rind of 1 lemon may be added. Combine first four ingredients; freeze to mushy consistency. Add cream; finish freezing. Pack and let stand 2 hrs. before serving.
EDITORIAL


 Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Alice Louise Reynolds
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - - - - JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. X. AUGUST, 1923 No.