[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 250 | Fiction | The Forgotten Necessity | Luana Shumway]
But, faced with the white bowl The Forgotten Necessity blotched with shreds of left-behind meat loaf, she could wait to see his album. She placed the loaf pan into the oven. "Martha," Frank sounded hesitant. "Will you drive me to the airport?" *'Airport?" was sufficient answer. Methodically, as a cat licks its paws and face leaving no spot uncleansed, she began in one corner to wipe the shelf. "I have to go to Los Angeles." He offered no more explanation. Martha had always had to extract information from him. "Los Angeles? Why go there? Your work is here in the north." Noiselessly, she piled the dishes in the sink. "It's not for work. I am going to the company hospital." For the first time, Martha turned around. "Hospital? I did not know you were sick." "I'm not sick. It's that sore on my cheek. I saw Doc Fletcher today. He thinks I should have it checked." He spoke very simply. "But didn't he check it?' she asked, remembering that she had told him to see the doctor three times last week. "He wants a more thorough check made, X-rays and a biopsy.". She tried to grasp what he was saying. She reached for a chair, and pulling it nearer her, sat down. "Biopsy? On your cheek? You mean it's cancer?" "He says there is only a small chance that it is malignant. He just wants me checked. The hospital is the best place to do it." Martha tried to remember the beginning of the conversation. The words, the thoughts were 

251 April 1967

 moving too rapidly, too unexpectedly. "Yes, I'll take you." Then, as an afterthought—'It only costs half as much to take the bus."" She was automatically checking his extravagance. "The doctor ordered the plane. He phoned for reservations while I was still in his office. He even phoned the hospital to ask them to meet me. They will have a room waiting when I arrive." The implication of his words began to filter into her reasoning. She was silent a moment. And then spoke softly, ""A room in the hospital? You'll be staying there? Three hundred miles away?" Without answering, Frank went into the bedroom. Martha followed. Finally, he said, 'You'll be alone here for a few days. Be sure to let the neighbors know. I shouldn't be gone more than a couple of days, not long enough to make the trip worthwhile for you." He brought his small suitcase from his closet and opened it on the bed. Martha felt terribly alone and out of touch with him. He was speaking almost casually, as if he were going to the corner for a newspaper. He avoided frowning or looking directly at her for more than a few seconds at a time. Yet the muscles around his eyes were tense; the line of his mouth was firm, perhaps from too much control. "It is serious, isn't it?" she asked. She went to his drawer and pulled out three changes of underwear. She laid them on the bed near his suitcase. He answered her, "I won't know that until I get there. I don't need all those clothes. I'll 252 be in bed in a hospital." He ignored the underwear, packing instead a shirt, two books, and some stationery. Martha moved in front of the suitcase. "Take them anyway. It won't hurt you to have more than enough. Will you let me know as soon as you find out?" She removed the shirt, books, and paper, and began rearranging them in the suitcase. "Yes, I will. I'll call if it is possible." He had collected his shaving equipment, his toothbrush, and his hair cream. Martha fitted each one in carefully. When she had finished, he closed the suitcase and said only, "Let's go." Martha wanted to open the suitcase and check it again. She wanted to be assured that he had everything, that he would lack nothing, that he was being sent well-kept to his destination. Instead, she only felt turmoil, but she had to follow him to the car. An hour later Martha returned to her bedroom, hung up her coat, and changed her shoes. As she looked at the bed, at the place where the suitcase had been, she knew that there was something which she had neglected to send with Frank. It was something he would need—something he would arrive without and later miss. And he would need it. Martha closed her eyes and recounted every item she had packed, but she could not discover the forgotten necessity. As she fixed herself a simple meal of meat loaf, bread, and milk, Martha tried to imagine each activity in Frank's hospital day. In that way she hoped to discover the missing item. Again, she could find nothing. After folding a napkin, removing her apron, and moving her chair to the table, she sat down and automatically bowed her head to offer a blessing on her meal. A gush of realization swept through her body as she remembered what she had overlooked. She had forgotten to ask that they have prayer. Prayer—for years she had taken the lead in assembling the family for prayer, at mealtime, in the mornings, before outings and important events. Now, when Frank's life might even be in danger, she had forgotten prayer. She was so filled with self-incrimination that she could not decide for several minutes what should be done. Suddenly, quite clearly, she knew that she must pray alone. She was puzzled that she had not thought of it sooner. Frightened now, and hoping not to lose more of the apportioned minutes, she hurried to the bedroom, to the place where the suitcase had been on the bed, and knelt. She began, "Father in heaven.."' She forced her breath out and out and out, expecting that words would float out on the air stream. She knelt tightly in-place, trying to force the thoughts that would release the words. She seemed to think of nothing, and she could say nothing. I Then, with all the details of remembering, she saw Frank again as he walked evenly away from her and toward the plane. His expressionless back, with the rounded shoulders, bobbed in the center of her vision. She began again, "Father in heaven...." Why could she not find the words? Why could she not read The Forgotten Necessity her thoughts? She wanted to gain help, to ask something, but what? What blessing or what relief should she ask for Frank? And what for herself? To be without any words for prayer bewildered her. Confused thoughts mixed and _ separated and mixed again in her mind. Early in the afternoon, she had grumbled under the burden of her responsibility. Now she was alone to enjoy her own direction of time and energy, to be responsible only for herself. Now she could fold inward. Yet she was haunted, knowing that she had sent Frank away without a prayer and he remained without a prayer. Still, to try again would be useless. She decided to return to pray at bedtime. Si returned to her meal. The food looked foreign to the plate —another meat loaf cooked at another time by other hands. She didn't want to take the first bite. When they ate together, she delayed her eating until Frank had tasted the food. Then she asked, "How is it?" Frank always smiled and answered, ''Best there is," or a substitute phrase that showed his delight in her abilities as his keeper. Without that foolish, habitual beginning, without him there to appreciate her efforts, Martha could not enjoy her food. She stored the meat loaf, unsampled, in the refrigerator. In the living room, she found the newspaper where she had placed it, on the small Jamp table between their reading chairs. The headline on the city council squabble led her into the first paragraph. She was ready to ask, "Frank, what do you think of 

253 April 1967

 Milton Harrington's statement?" She looked into the emptiness of the opposite chair and lost all interest in the article. When her thoughts returned to the newspaper, she forsook the impersonal objectiveness of headlines and looked inside for something small, inconsequential, human in which she could involve herself. "Have you read this letter to the editor?' The unanswering blankness of the chair caught her and held her until she finally put the newspaper down. How pleasant it was to read when Frank was there to explain the split in the city council or to chuckle over some unique incident or to scorn the problems of those who wrote for advice! How important it was to read the paper, looking for the interesting bits of information which Frank might miss! How impossible it was for her to find the motivation within herself to read or to eat or to do anything with her hands or feet or head! Her last hope for tolerating the evening was their flower collection. She went to that corner of the bedroom where a special table stood loyally holding the books, the albums, the paste, the paint, the ink, the tape, the typewriter, the systematically arranged papers, and the pressed flowers. Years ago it would all have been brushed off to the floor and carefully put back in piles, slots, drawers, and boxes. She had offered to do it many times. She had threatened to do it three times. She had finally learned that this table was not her responsibility, that the mess itself was a partial expression of the creator who sat there in the whisper-quiet evenings, reading about the flowers, shaping them, grouping them, preserving them. It was around this cluttered table, where they had so often forgotten themselves to absorb this part of nature, that they had been nearest to each other. Martha didn't touch one paper, didn't clear one small area. For a moment, she understood the contribution which Frank had made to their lives, the responsibility he had taken. It didn't come as a revelation or as a clear, afterwards-quotable statement, but with a draw of her breath, a fulness of her heart. She knew what had always fulfilled her life and what she needed to retain this sense of fulfillment. She knew how to spend the strength of her faith. She returned to her bedroom to pray. A Unsaid Words Zara Sabin There is no song that larks can sing, No perfume roses shed, That takes the place within our lives Of loving words, unsaid. » 254 (Address delivered at the. Magazine Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966) m Sister Sharp, this is a very awesome audience for a lone mere male to face, but I am delighted to be with you this morning. I understand that you have had four main topics treated this morning. You have been told how to inspire and instruct with the Magazine and how to promote and utilize it. I would like to concentrate on a few practical suggestions in the latter two categories: how to promote and' use this great Magazine. Last year in this meeting, Brother Wendell Ashton, a highly respected colleague of mine, gave a marvelous, moving, and spiritual talk in which he characterized The Relief Society Magazine as a link between heaven and home. This reminded me of my first serious encounter with the Magazine back in World War II. I had very few links with the Church during my first few months overseas in England, in North Africa, and in Italy. I had been traveling somewhat too fast from base to base for the Latterday Saint Servicemen's Program to catch up with me. No copies of any of the Church magazines had reached me, and even the Latterday Saints Servicemen's Program have forgotten me. Then one day in one of the officers clubs I ran across a battered, tattered, but strangely familiar sight. It was, 'oddly enough, an old copy of The Relief Society Magazine, and I couldn't tell you now how it got there—perhaps one of our Latterday Saint Red Cross girls or one of our WAC officers might have brought it in, but I picked up that Magazine and I read it avidly from cover to cover, and it did indeed seem to be a link with home and with heaven in a way that I needed very badly at that particular time. Now, your calling is to help put that link in the proper place in every Latter-day Saint home. Let's examine for just a moment three very specific ways in which you might do it. The first way I am going to suggest is that you convince your- *Member, Sunday School General Board and Vice-Chairman, The Instructor Magazine Committee 

255 April 1967

 self, if you are not already convinced, that your calling is important, that you are performing a real service to the Relief Society, to your stake, or to the wards or branches you serve, and to the work of our Heavenly Father. Corollary to that, I suggest you convince yourself that this Magazine is all that it purports to be. We have seen some of the things that it can do in a clever little skit a few minutes ago, but beyond that, I hope you read the Magazine every month and know its contents, and that your Magazine Representatives in the wards and branches do the same. This will build your enthusiasm better than anything else. The second step is to convey that enthusiasm to others. It really is contagious. The ward representatives will catch it from you, and the potential Magazine subscribers will catch it from them. And step three (and I almost think this is the most important of all because it is, perhaps, the most often violated): sell this Magazine on its own merits. To illustrate the need for this philosophy, envision this situation: a Magazine representative goes to the door and makes this approach: "Sister Jones, your subscription to The Relief Society Magazine expires this month. We have to have our money in by next Thursday, and we need four more subscriptions to reach our quota...." You can imagine the rest of the presentation and the ensuing response. You will note that there is no attempt here to explain the merits of the Magazine or the 256 benefits the potential subscriber will receive from reading it. A subscription acquired in this way will get the Magazine into that home, but it will seldom get the contents of the Magazine into the minds and hearts of those who subscribe—and I would presume that's a primary objective in publishing this Magazine. Now, in contrast, when Jesus preached his gospel, he presented it so clearly, so dramatically, and enticingly that his audience simply couldn't resist what he had - to offer. In presenting The Relief Society Magazine, you can well follow his example as a Master Teacher. The Relief Society Magazine has a great message to offer. It can be a great influence for good in the home, as you very well know, but we must find a way to get more women not merely to subscribe to it, but to read it and to heed it. Now here are a few more specific thoughts. I am sure many of these have already occurred to you, but perhaps they will suggest some fresh or appealing way of presenting the case for The Relief Society Magazine. Idea No. 1: Why not encourage your ward Relief Societies to serve foods made from some of those taste-tempting recipes that I read in the Magazine, especially those that come to us from many different lands? I would hope that your Relief Society officers would credit the Magazine as the source. I know one ward Relief Society where this was done recently, and I am told the women could hardly wait to go home and try the recipes on their families, because it was food they had actually tested and tasted for themselves, How to