[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 289 | General Feature | "Into Every Life Some Rain Must Fall" Amy | Giles Bond]
I "into 'Every Life Some Rain Must F Fall' I I Hi} Hi} Ian ji Bond NA IA ea I @ It was mid-July when we took a drive through one of Utah's beautiful canyons. As we emerged from the canyon, there before us was a beautiful pastoral scene. It looked peaceful, with cattle and horses idly grazing in green pastures or standing in the shade of the clumps of trees along the banks of the quiet river. As we sped along the new and modern highway, it was such a contrast that I couldn't help thinking, why can't life be like the quiet, peaceful scene we are passing through? But, even as I thought it, I also remembered the words "Into every life some rain must fall." Without the rain and the turbulent rapids of the river somewhere upstream, the lovely, peaceful quiet of this valley, far from the hurry of the city, would not be there to enjoy. So it is with life. Like the land, there are times when things are peaceful and quiet, and we can move slowly along with the stream of things, but not for always. Life isn't designed to be that way. In mortality we are going through the '"'refiner's fire,"' to be tried to see how well we are able to stand up under the trials and pressures of life. Before the river reached the peaceful valley, the land above had to stand up under the wild twisting and turning of the rushing river. In some places the land was like rock and was able to, shall we say, turn the tide. In others, the land was weak, and it was easier just to let the river cut through. We must learn that we must stand firm and learn to withstand the rushing waters of life, never letting our faith falter, even though the trial and heartbreak we may pass through seem more than we can bear. "This, too, shall pass,"' and then we have some of the peace found in the lovely, green valley. Even in the apparently peaceful valley, had we been able to take a closer look, we would have found some undesirable elements. Someone once said "Everyone has a cross to bear, and maybe no one knows of it except the person concerned, nevertheless, it is theirs to bear." More rain seems to fall in the lives of some people. The main thing, however, is to be strong enough in our faith to withstand the floods of despair, disappointment, and hurt that come to us. May we all be able to pass through the trials of life with a stronger faith in God and his goodness to us, because '"'Into every life some rain must fall" to help us appreciate the fact that God is in his heaven and all is well.