[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 3 | Fiction | The Golden | Chain Chapter]
[The Golden Chain Chapter]

January 1967

[ILLUSTRATION - Relief sculpture showing several robed figures with text "BENEVOLENCE" and "THROUGH LOVE SERVE ONE ANOTHER"]

ing to General Board records, it was later learned through the Presiding Bishopric, that the idea of hanging the Nauvoo bell in a permanent setting had been under consideration for some time, but no definite decision had been made. The sisters felt that perhaps the decision "had been slowed up in order that Relief Society might have the privilege."

The structure was to be built by small contributions from Relief Society members. The service of an able architect, Brother Lorenzo Snow Young, a grandson of Brigham Young and a grandnephew of Eliza R. Snow, was enlisted to design the tower. The base was to be of granite, the top of grilled bronze to harmonize with the bronze bell.

There were to be four plaques in bas-relief—one on each of the four sides near the base. The plaques were to be designed by an eminent Utah sculptor, Dr. Avard Fairbanks, with three of the series, in turn, titled: "Pioneering," "Education," and "Benevolence." The fourth was to be an inscription plaque, a tribute to the sisters and their work, entitled: "The Relief Society Centennial Memorial."

Work on the project moved forward. The granite was delivered; the bronze grillwork top was made ready; the plaques were cast, when, suddenly, the tragedy of war came upon us. Many of the regular activities of Relief Society had to be curtailed, some temporarily discontinued. Centennial plans had to be greatly modified and work on the Campanile was stopped, including the financial contribution program. Materials were stored

[ILLUSTRATION - Relief sculpture showing pioneer scene with covered wagon, figures including woman and child, with text "PIONEERING" and "NO TOIL NOR LABOR FEAR"]

Photos by Howard Barker

16

Relief Society Centennial Memorial Bell Tower

in facilities arranged by the Presiding Bishopric, to await a favorable day for the completion of the historical memorial.

It was not until 1945 that activities were restored to normal. In April 1945, a new Relief Society Presidency was named—President Belle S. Spafford, with Marianne C. Sharp and Gertrude R. Garff as Counselors, succeeding President Amy B. Lyman, Marcia K. Howells, and Belle S. Spafford. Shortly thereafter, death claimed President Heber J. Grant, and a new Presidency of the Church was sustained—President George Albert Smith, with President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay as Counselors.

President Smith endorsed the erection of the Campanile on Temple Square, making clear to the new Relief Society Presidency their responsibilities to complete the project which had meant so much to Sister Lyman, her Board, and the sisters of Relief Society. Because of the urgent need of Relief Society for a headquarters building, however, which involved a big collection program, President Smith and his Counselors deemed it advisable to hold in abeyance the completion of the memorial until the Relief Society Building was erected and dedicated.

Prior to the completion of the Building, President Smith was called home, and President McKay was sustained as President of the Church, with Elder Stephen L Richards and Elder J. Reuben Clark, Jr., as Counselors. Through the years, President McKay, familiar with the history of the memorial, has not lost

[ILLUSTRATION: Relief Society Centennial Memorial with detailed text and imagery]

[ILLUSTRATION: Educational scene with multiple figures and text "EDUCATION" and "THE GLORY OF GOD IS INTELLIGENCE"]

17

January 1967

sight of this uncompleted project. From time to time the question of its completion has been considered with the Relief Society Presidency. At no time has there appeared to be any thought of abandoning the project.

It was a happy occasion when, on August 19, 1966, the Relief Society Presidency received word that authorization had been given by President McKay to go forward immediately with the erection of the structure. It was to be located on Temple Square at a site agreeable to the First Presidency and the Temple Square Committee. The site determined upon by those two groups was midway between the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall, toward the west wall of the Square. In response to the express desire of the General Presidency, authorization was granted to meet the costs of completing the structure from General Board funds.

Brother Howard Barker, a former member of the Church Building Committee, assigned to the Campanile project, and a man who has shown dedicated interest in the memorial through the years, has devoted endless hours to locating and assembling the stored parts, a number of which had been moved from their original storage place. Fortunately, every part was located.

Elder Mark B. Garff and his associates on the Building Committee promptly took hold of the erection of the structure, putting forth special effort to have it ready for viewing during this conference. We are, therefore, pleased to announce the completion of the Relief Society Cen-

tennial Memorial — a project initiated a quarter of a century ago.

We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the support and cooperation of Elder Mark E. Petersen, as chairman of the Temple Square Committee, and his associates on the committee. These brethren have been understanding and considerate. We appreciate the efforts of Brother Mark B. Garff and his associates, and Brother Howard Barker for his valuable service.

To our present First Presidency, President David O. McKay, Presidents Hugh B. Brown, Nathan Eldon Tanner, Joseph Fielding Smith, and Thorpe B. Isaacson, we express most humble and grateful thanks for their interest and concern in bringing to fulfillment the dream of Sister Lyman, her Board, and the sisters of the Centennial day that there should be on Temple Square a permanent memorial which you, today, may have the choice privilege of viewing at the close of this meeting—a memorial erected to the honored position of women in the gospel plan; a Centennial Memorial honoring the founding of Relief Society; a memorial approved by three great Presidents of the Church, President Grant, President Smith, and President McKay.

And here shall hang the bell known as the Nauvoo Temple Bell — a treasured bell to be presented in a new and beautiful setting for all to enjoy. And as people pause to view it in its new setting, may their vision be opened to the importance of the place and work of the women of the Church.

18
