[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 248 | Special Feature | Leanor J. Brown Appointed to the General Board of | Relief Society]
Leanor J. Brown Appointed to the General Board @ Leanor Jesperson Brown, Mexico City, Mexico, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, February 1, 1967. A daughter of James A. Jesperson and Flora May Williams Jesperson, she is a great-great-granddaughter of. Frederick Granger Williams, a Counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was married to Harold Brown in the Mesa Temple, and they are the parents of two sons: David Calvin and James Christopher. Her Church service began in girlhood. She is a Golden Gleaner and has worked in the auxiliaries of the Church. In Relief Society, she has had a varied experience as a class leader and executive officer, including services as social science and theology class leader in Provo, Utah, Boston, Massachusetts, and Mexico City. She has been first counselor, stake Relief Society president, and acting stake Relief Society president in Mexico City Stake, where her husband is currently serving as stake president. Sister Brown has been a short-term missionary in the Mexican Mission, and she and her husband served as assistants to the president of the Mexican Mission. While Brother Brown was president of the Argentine Mission, Sister Brown directed the women's auxiliaries. She is presently teaching seminary to the English-speaking 248 school members of the high Church in Mexico City. Her brother James Avril Jesperson is president of the Andes Mission. Her many years of residence in Mexico and in other Spanishspeaking countries have given her an understanding and a love for the Relief Society sisters and the members of the Church who are building the missions and the stakes and wards and branches in Latin America. Sister Brown is a natural leader, an accomplished speaker, and is well versed in Relief Society organizational procedures. A gracious homemaker, she excels in cooking, handicraft, and hospitality. Her appointment to the General Board of Relief Society will bring to it additional strength and ability, and her understanding of the Spanish-speaking sisters, as well as of other Relief Society sisters will add to the unity of the world-wide sisterhood.