[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 307 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities ~~, R Bil ts #44 San Leandro Stake (California) Relief Society Board Presents Special Program at Leadership Meeting September 16, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Virginia Basinger, homemaking leader; Louise Palmer, Counselor; Melba Larsen, President; Neva Griggs, Counselor; Ann Sybrowsky, spiritual living class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Hazel Woolley, social relations class leader; Elfonda Barker, Magazine representative; Inez Sutton, visiting teacher message leader; Dorisse Coats, chorister; Donna Carter, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Larsen reports: "The theme 'Relief Society, the Key to Happiness,' was introduced by a ladies' trio, singing music especially written for the occasion by President Larsen. Each leader then accepted a golden key and spoke briefly on its use to open the door to a spiritual and cultural life. New courses of study and plans for the year's work were combined with sincere testimonies of the stake Relief Society leaders. We were inspired and challenged to greater service." 

307 April 1967

 Sunderland Stake (England), Sunderland Ward Bazaar November 26, 1966 Left to right: Mary A. Akenhead, Counselor; Gladys Oates, President; Melba F. May, President, Sunderland Stake Relief Society; Constance Hill, Counselor, Sunderland Ward. Sister May reports: "On November 26th I attended a very fine bazaar held by the Sunderland Ward Relief Society in the Sunderland Stake cultural hall. They had nine stalls carrying out the theme 'Life Is Right.' Each stall displayed a different variety of articles, such as aprons, knit goods, toys, useful gadgets for the home, bakery goods and other foods, needlework, and a special stall for children. "Relief Society is going forward in this part of England. The sisters are looking forward to the Regional British Relief Society Conference in the spring." Nevada Stake, McGill Ward Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Closing Social Program, May 20, 1966 Seated, left to right: Cleo Tidwell, chorister; Eva Holman, accompanist; Gae Christensen, President; Ona Earl, First Counselor; Betty Tidball, Second Counselor. Second row, seated, left to right: Bessie Giles; Ora Blackham; Betty Brunson; Eddis Cottrell; Alma Parry. Third row, standing, left to right: Lula Harris; Linda Bohn; June Sexton; Itha Ahlstrom; Jeanine Abbott. Fourth row, left to right: Vaughnetta Roberts; Belle Timmerman; Evelyn Johnson; Lydia Harris. Margery Tate, President, Nevada Stake Relief Society, reports: "An evening of song, poetry, and colored slides portraying love of nature, home, and country was enjoyed by the Relief Society membership and their husbands at a closing social, and a final function before the division of the ward. The program began with the song 'Thanks Be to God,' and acknowledged the hand of God in all things, and ended with the song "This Land Is Your Land,' as a picture of the flag flying in the sky was shown on the screen." Northern Mexican Mission, Ciudad Acuna Branch (Coahuila, Mexico) Relief Society Bazaar, November 1966 Left to right: Bruna P. De. Lopez; Guadalupe Lopez; Ceilia R. De Diaz, Second Counselor, in charge of homemaking; Antonia E. De Ninez, SecretaryTreasurer; Manuela D. De Leon, President; Virginia S. De Lugo; Dolores de Leon; Maricela Diaz. Pauline M. Green, Supervisor, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Though these sisters are far from the Northern Mexican Mission headquarters and do not receive visits from the mission board, and, probably, do not have more than one visit a year from the district officers, due to the fact they they are about 225 kilometers (approximately 140 miles) distance from the nearest branch (and that over a dirt road), they remain extremely active and enthusiastic, as can be-seen by the quilts and other articles exhibited at their bazaar." Note also the interesting stuffed toys, the floral arrangements on the table, and the lovely corsages the sisters are wearing. 

308 April 1967

 Australian Mission, Queensland District Relief Society Conference October 23, 1966 Relief Society sisters standing back of the homemaking display, left to right: Fay Little, President, Townsville Branch Relief Society; Margarey Farquaharson, Secretary-Treasurer, Queensland District Relief Society; Hilda Bertrand, President, Mackay Branch Relief Society; Laurine Ensign, Supervisor, Australian Mission Relief Society; Dorothy Tolputt, President, Cairns Branch Relief Society; Nelle Earl, missionary serving in Rockhampton Branch; Lois Jeffery, President, Queensland District Relief Society. Os Sister Ensign reports: "The display items came from all the branches, and were exhibited for the purpose of keeping up the interest in the summer meetings. They include toys, art, Christmas ideas, cards, wreaths, and trees; cushion covers, wall plaques, candle motifs, and paper leis." Cedar West Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Conducts Special Leadership Meeting, August 17, 1966 Four women at the left, left to right: Anne A. Judd, social relations class leader; Anne O. Leavitt, cultural refinement class leader; Iris B. Hafen, spiritual living class leader; Bernella G. Jones, organist. At the right, in front, left to right: LaPriel D. Lunt, President, Cedar West Stake Relief Society; Ione W. Bradshaw, homemaking leader; Hazel B. Davies, Magazine representative. Back row, left to right: Lucretia P. Ashcroft, First Counselor; Ann B. Hansen, Second Counselor; Shirley J. Marchant, visiting teacher message leader; Hilda H. Parry, Secretary-Treasurer; Cora A. Condie, chorister. Sister Lunt reports: "This special meeting was held to encourage and instruct class leaders in good teaching methods and motives. Different phases of involvement teaching were discussed, with stake board members leading out in the various discussions. Sister Hafen spoke on 'Spiritual Preparation,' and stressed the importance of recognizing the fact that our callings are divine. Sister Leavitt discussed 'Thirty Days of Preparation,' in which the steps of prayerful preparation were traced. Sister Judd discussed "Tools for Teaching, in which consideration was given to eleven different teaching methods applicable to Relief Society. Sister Jones, in developing her topic 'You, Too, Can Teach,' emphasized the necessity for living the principles taught, and thereby aiding others in achieving their greatest potential." Winter Quarters Stake (Nebraska), Lincoln Ward Opening Social September 29, 1966 Left to right: Jane Grether, President; Patricia Robinson, First Counselor; Alice Beutler, Second Counselor; Grace Hummel, Secretary-Treasurer. Blanche Rawlings, President, Winter Quarters Stake Relief Society, reports: "With the beginning of the fall meetings, the sisters of the Lincoln Ward Relief Society reported their prospects looked fine for a successful and rewarding year. Their opening social was very beautiful and inspiring. Each class leader set a table to represent her department. The displays were artistically arranged, representing a store having many treasures. Each sister was given a small shopping bag to fill with samples. At the end of the line of tables, was a treasure chest of golden keys. Each sister received a key to the treasure to be had by becoming an active member of Relief Society." 

310 April 1967

 Mount Logan Stake (Utah), River Heights Second Ward Opening Social September 26, 1966 In the picture Helen Andersen represents the "'ticket-taker'" for the travel trip "All Aboard for Relief Society." Relda Jorgensen, President, Mount Logan Stake Relief Society, reports: "The River Heights Second Ward carried out, as their opening social theme, 'All Aboard for Relief Society." Trains and miniature suitcases decorated the tables. A ticket booth was at the entrance. The homemaking leader was the train conductor and acted as program chairman. She introduced different train stops, as each teacher gave interesting highlights into the lessons planned for the year." Yuma Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, October 8, 1966 Standing in the front row, left to right, beginning with the sister at the left behind the podium: Louise Rickter, soloist; Ruth M. Moeller, organist; Wylene S. Slade, chorister; Marjorie C. Pingree, member, General Board of Relief Society; Louise S. Westover, President; Elva B. Fife, First Counselor; Eva N. McGovern, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary A. Butler, Second Counselor. Sister Westover reports: "This was our first Relief Society Conference since the dedication of the Yuma Stake center. The Singing Mothers of our stake come from seven wards and three branches, and many travel 260 miles round trip to participate. Since 1958, when the stake was organized, the number of Singing Mothers has increased from fifty to one hundred. Most of our Relief Societies have fine choruses, and we are especially thrilled when we visit Calexico (Spanish sisters), and the Lamanite Relief Societies, and are pleased to hear their choruses. We are very pleased to have devoted music leaders, and we appreciate the interest and efforts of all the sisters." Mexican Mission Annual Relief Society Convention September 24, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Amparo S. De Medina, Second Counselor, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Natividad R. De Cardoso, First Counselor; Bertha M. De Camacho, President, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Augustin Camacho Tapia, First Counselor, Mexican Mission Presidency; Jasper R. McClellan, President, Mexican Mission; Rula R. McClellan, Supervisor, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Carlos Colorado V., Second Counselor, Mexican Mission Presidency. Standing are the sisters who comprise the boards of the seven districts of the Mexican Mission. Rula R. McClellan, Supervisor, Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "The purpose of this convention was to instruct. The officers of the district boards, and to present and discuss plans relating to the organization and work of Relief Society in the districts. "A play entitled 'Success' was presented. It conveyed a spiritual message of activity and work, and it was really a success. We were able to draw this conclusion from the expressions on the faces of the sisters. We were delighted by the Singing Mothers chorus. At the end of the convention, a lunch was served." 312 ERIE Eig sie shes EUR 8 Bias OER Se eee ee eC Em eM Catt aTy £4 te am 7.. I I be J s§: -. A >. Ima Ne ee ey HOMEMAKING. Development Through WY Homemaking Education aa Dr.