[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 263 | Fiction | Be Happy But Remember Alice | P. Willardson]
G SK Be Happy, But Remember Alice P. Willardson w That morning I was really on top of the world. I breathed deeply of the cool fall air. It wasn't hard to imagine that I was walking to music. The sky was so much more blue, the sun so much brighter, the breeze so much softer. The lights had come on again "all over the world." Yes, the war was over! The fighting was through. All the first wild, hilarious celebration was over. Our boys would soon be coming home again. That was what the morning breeze was whispering as it caressed my cheeks, "Peace, peace." A world of peace and beauty again! Just to be able to say to yourself, "God's in his heaven: all's right with the world." I fairly floated down the street, answering all the happy '"Goodmornings" from the neighbors and greetings from the businessmen as I walked through Main Street. "Well, we'll soon be through with you now, Mrs. O. P. A." they called. Working in the Office of Price Administration had been a war-time obligation. "That's right, we'll soon be folding our tents 'like the Arabs, and as silently steal away.' " "Guess you'll kind of miss it, won't you?" "Oh, it will be so good not to need that sort of thing. Maybe Ill have to pay you all a visit each morning for awhile just to keep from getting lonesome." "You're not through yet, are you?" "No, not quite, we still have to ration sugar for awhile longer. And, of course, the price control will have to continue for some time. But I imagine a county 

263 April 1967

 board will take over and all our little local boards will be through. We can't get rid of it all in a day, but it will be good to get back to normal again." "You can say that again!" At the Post Office door, Bishop Kendell stood with his hand extended. "Looks like you are walking on air this morning, my dear. Your smile is absolutely radiant." Tue pressure of his hand was firm, and I wondered how eyes so grave could still twinkle. These last years had not been kind to Bishop Kendell. Of course he wasn't our bishop now, but he would always be that to me. He lived out in what we, as children, called ''Lover's Lane," and had been our bishop for years when we lived on the farm. Many of the problems of my young womanhood had been solved by his kindly voice. He had blessed and baptized our children. Yes, the fine veins in his face were too blue, and his skin was almost transparent. Yet, there was such strength there it was almost as if his soul was shining through. "You don't look so bad yourself, bishop. You found the key to happiness a long time ago, didn't you? That's one thing you can give away and still have plenty for yourself, or you would not have any left, would you?" I asked lovingly. "Yes, happiness is sort of contagious," he said, and the old twinkle was in his eyes again. "That's right. Give my love to Sister Kendell, will you?" I waved gaily as I went down the street. A small group of men stood on the City Hall lawn as I ran up 264 the steps. The board chairman was there. "You're soon going to be out of a job now, young lady," he called. "Won't it be fun? You, too. You'll never get your wages doubled now." "That's right, but since two times nothing is still nothing, I guess it won't matter." This was an old joke among these men who had given freely of so much time and worry through all the war years. "Yes, but think of all the nice names you have been called these last three years. You're going to miss all the applause when you retire to private life." A burst of laughter greeted our sally. It was good to hear people laugh again. Even our dingy little office, with its files and typewriters, looked brighter this morning. Maybe it was the sun reflecting on the white-washed walls which faced our only windows. How often in the past two years had that wall typified to me the saying, "Beating your head against a blank wall." Mildred greeted me with her usual smile, only this time it was not the smile we painted on each morning and wore to cover every emotion while we quoted regulations and doled out ration stamps. Her eyes were shining and I knew her heart was singing the same tune that mine was. The boys would be coming home! When? How soon would the boys be coming home? "I had a letter from Bob this morning. He said they sure put on a celebration in Alaska when they got the word of V. J. Day," she said. "You look like you had good news, too. A letter from Keith?" "Yes, he says he won't be getting home for awhile yet, as the Air Corps still needs weather men, at least enough to man the airfields. Three years is a long time for him to be out of school, and he is anxious to get home, but we can wait now that the war is over. I imagine some of the boys will be coming home right away. Won't it seem good to have young men to help on the farms again! It will put the red blood of youth back into this town. One didn't dare to think how gray and dreary our world was with the youth gone out of it." le door was standing open, and the city mayor had walked in and joined in the conversation. "Yes, they will soon put some color and life back into this old town. They have already brought the color back into the cheeks of a few girls I could mention. Funny isn't it, that in spite of all the boys have been through, they are the ones who have all the hope and optimism. I guess just to be home again is heaven to them." Others strolled into the office and sat with the old chairs tilted back at a rakish angle. Even the chairs seemed giddy with the new happiness. Conversation and jokes were tossed lightly about. Must have been a new sensation for the old office. "How about a sheet of those sugar stamps for my scrapbook?" "Oh, these are still precious. You'll have to use your A Book for a souvenir. Here, you can Be Happy, But Remember have a T gasoline application, too." "What! Only the application blank? How about some T stamps now you don't need them any more?" "They all had to be accounted for and the remainder burned with great ceremony. You will never know what we were thinking as all those stamps went up in smoke." Just then the city marshall entered and sat down in the remaining chair rather heavily. We all looked at him, and the smiles faded. "IT guess we are not quite through yet. The widow woman Josh Ames married just got word that her son is dead. Died in a hospital overseas." That old dread 'silence fell on the group once more. One by one, the men faded from the room. Their mumbled words of grief and sympathy mingled strangely with the blurred figures in the room and the confusion that whirled in my head. They were all gone, so was the day, and time turned backward. In the chair in front of my desk sat a forlorn little figure. Her shoulders drooped and her gray eyes were desolate. '"I—I missed the bus."' She was breathless with the choke in her throat. The clock ticked loudly. Why didn't we muzzle that thing? "I'm so sorry. Were you going some place special?" "Oh, yes. I was going to Salt Lake to see my son. He is going overseas, and I could only see him for a few minutes as the train stops in Salt Lake City. But I— I wanted to see him so badly." Tick-tock, tick-tock.... 

265 April 1967

 Her head sank and her voice wasn't much more than a whisper. "He wired me to be sure and be there. He has been sick, and he is just a kid!" Yes, he was just a kid. A kid with freckles on his nose. And such a cute grin. I remembered the day he had been in the office for his "entering service gasoline." Thex-rocx: tick-tock.. The time was passing. I could see that train pulling into the Salt Lake station. I could see the boy's thin, eager face, see the light fade from his eyes, and then hear the chug-chugging of the train as it pulled out, and the whistle, the whistle, and the smoke growing thin in the distance. I knew she was hearing it, too, and that her heart was going with the boy as we sat in the stillness of that office. Tick-tock—tick.... Tock. "Somehow, I know I'll never see him again...." Again the lump in my throat was choking me, and my eyes stung with the unshed tears just as they had that day. I felt as if I was smothering. "Mildred, Mildred, do you remember the morning she was in here? The morning she missed the bus?" "Yes, yes, of course, I remember. Don't go over all that again. You know there was nothing we could do about it." "IT know. She didn't even ask for anything. Maybe their old car wouldn't have made it to Salt Lake if we could have let them have the gasoline." The walls were closing down on me, stifling me. "Oh, Mildred, 266 do you care? I've got to get out of here." "Of course, I'll stay till you get back." Gone was the brightness of the day. The glare of the pavement hurt my eyes. The shadows were so intense that they hit me in the face. No, not shadows—it was willows along the creek. Instinctively I had sought the shade of "Lover's Lane." How ironic! "'Lover's Lane'' to cry your heart out for a mother who had lost too much, and for a soldier who died overseas, but who was only a boy who had been sick and needed his mother! And somehow they both had known that they would never see each other again. And I had stood in the way! I wouldn't let her go to him. No it wasn't I. It was the regulations. Other boys needed that gas to fly their planes. The country was full of mothers who could not say goodbye to their sons. Why did I take exception to this one? But this mother! Life had taken so much from her that she had not even expected anything. She had not even asked. Her heart was so heavy that her brain was paralyzed. All she could see was a little boy who had to be a man. She had known and he had known that this was their last chance on this earth. And now it had happened, just a boy alone and so far away. I could still see her holding that yellow slip of paper, and her eyes as far away and desolate as they had been that day. Dear God! If I felt like I did, what did she feel like? At last the flood broke and the tears came. I lay prone upon the grass and sobbed _ increasingly. Somehow I was crying for all the mothers in the world who would never throw their arms around that loved form and welcome him home. The grief was too much to bear. SeroNE was patting me on the shoulder, and a voice, kind and gentle, was saying, "Whatever is the matter, Nelly?" It was Bishop Kendell. "Oh, I just can't stand it. I can't stand to think of it." And I told him the whole story. The telegram that had arrived today and all that was behind it. All the other telegrams all over the world! "I know, I know, Nelly. And it is little enough one can do at a time like this, and somehow crying helps the least of it. Why don't you go to the little mother? She has few friends here in this strange town. She needs you." "I will, I will go to her later. 'But what if she hates me?" "She won't hate you. She understood. You know, my dear, you cannot take upon yourself the grief of the whole world. Each must bear his own. Remember in Gethsemane, even our Savior sweat blood at every pore, when he took upon himself the sins and sorrows of the world." "Oh, I know. It isn't that. It's just that I was so happy this morning. Why can't we forget all this grief and heartache, all this tragedy? I want to be happy! Why can't we forget!" "You are not the only one who wants to forget. The whole world is drunk with trying to forget. Forgetting is only a drag for the mind. I can't believe that it is the answer. These boys died that Be Happy, But Remember we might still have our right to the pursuit of happiness. Our Lord and Savior died on the cross that we might have eternal life. But he did not want us to forget. He even instituted the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper that we might always remember, that he did not die in vain. Somehow we have to learn to be happy but remember." As he spoke, the storm within me gradually grew more calm, but, walking back to the office, I felt dull and heavy. How could anyone ever be happy, remembering all the sacrifice and suffering? The work at the office dragged, and it was late before I had finished. I locked the door and walked through the semi-darkness of the outer halls. As I came down the steps and out on to the street there burst upon me one of the most glorious sunsets I have ever known. My tired eyes blinked at the bDrilliance, and it seemed to mock my heavy heart. Slowly the splendor of orange and gold faded and the sky was a clear blue and each fluff of a cloud the most delicate pink, like bows on a baby blanket, I thought absently. The sun had gone to rest, not to be seen again till the dawn of another day. But as each fleecy cloud across the heavens picked up the light and reflected it back with increasing glory, those in the west deepened in color to mauve anc lavender. Slowly, the colors in one part of the sky faded only to linger somewhere else as only an autumn twilight can do. And amid all this beauty of a dying day, my soul groped for an answer. "Be happy, but always remember."