[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 256 | Special Feature | How to Promote and Use the Magazine G. | Robert Ruff]
Promote and Use the Magazine and they wanted to see what reaction they would get from their own families. Idea No. 2: Try leaving a copy. I am sure many of you here have had a call from a certain brush company representative at sometime in the past few months. That company has an effective little technique. They present the housewife with a clever little magazine that has good illustrations, beautiful color, and some interesting reading in it, along with pictures and information about their products. One very successful representative, who is a district supervisor for this company, told me that his sales people now spend far less time in each home than formerly, because the customers are already presold. They leave a copy of the magazine, and then when they call back a few days later, they spend only a few minutes in each home taking orders. You can use a similar technique with women who are not yet familiar with this Magazine. Leave a copy and a reminder that you are going to call back later. In so doing you also leave a feeling of obligation on their part to at least glance through the Magazine, because they won't want to be embarrassed by not knowing anything about the publication when you come back and say, "What did you think of this? Did you like such and such an article or such and such a story?" They will feel they have to be familiar with it, and in so doing they will sell themselves on the wonderful offerings of this Magazine. Quotas are often used as sales incentives to make people go out and work for a cause, but they won't necessarily accomplish the objective that you want to accomplish, which goes far beyond merely selling a Magazine subscription. My good friend and former Sunday School Board member, Reed Bradford, used to tell us frequently that we are prone to do the right things for the wrong reasons. When we get people to subscribe to the Magazine because they are helping us reach a quota, they are doing the right thing but for the wrong reason, and it won't get readers into the Magazine. Another suggestion: learn to anticipate objections and answer them. An insurance agent friend of mine tells me that this is one of the greatest secrets of successful selling. But are there any real objections to subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine? If so, what are they? A well-reputed psychologist, James Harvey Robinson, maintained that there are two kinds of reasons we have for doing or not doing a certain thing. There is the good reason—the valid, the acceptable, the legitimate reason —and these are the ones we usually tell other people. And then there are the real reasons, the deep-seated reasons, and these are the ones we often keep to ourselves, A few seasons ago for The Instructor magazine, we did some readership studies, and we tried to get at both the good reasons and the real reasons why a few people, and I emphasize few, fail to resubscribe for The Instructor after they have been subscribers for some time. I don't like to ad- 

257 April 1967

 mit this, but there were a very few who said they just didn't like the Magazine—and I still can't understand that one! Then there were a few more who said they were no longer working in the Sunday School and so _ didn't really need it. I understood their reasons, but I had some good answers by pointing out how Primary, and Relief Society, and Priesthood teachers also found the Magazine useful and kept on subscribing year after year. But by far the greatest number of people gave us two other answers: The first was, "I can't afford it." I wonder if this is a valid reason. We'll examine it in a minute or two, but this is one of those good reasons that Robinson talks about, isn't it? And close behind it was, of course, "I don't have time to read it." I wonder how often you have called at a home where the family was watching a TV soap opera in the daytime or a spy thriller in the evening, yet someone would boldly tell you, "We don't have any time to read, so we really don't need it, thank you." Again, this is one of those good reasons. I suspect that if we in this room were honest with ourselves, we would have to admit that we are all woefully short of both time and money to do and to buy all the things we would like for our families. But, within limits, of course, somehow we seem to budget both the time and money to do and buy what we really need. Elder Paul Dunn has a favorite saying that there are things that are nice to know and things that: we need to know. I suggest we paraphrase Brother Dunn and 258 say that there are things that are nice to have and do, and there are things we need to have and we need to do. Somehow, we must get into the minds of our potential subscribers The Relief Society Magazine is one of the things we all need to find time for in our busy schedules. We need to budget time in order to read this wonderful Magazine, and we need to find the little money it takes to subscribe. Perhaps we'll have to give up some little luxury or some impulse purchase. But the sacrifice isn't great, and it's only a few pennies a month. Now I know there are a few people who can't afford those few pennies. But in our society today there are relatively few who can't afford the small subscription price of The Relief Society Magazine. So it is really up to you to provide the feeling of need—to help your potential subscribers want this more than some of the other wants. I would like to give just a few convincing arguments that will help you achieve that small extra measure of success that makes so much difference between a champion and an also ran. Maybe you have watched our Mormon golfer, Billy Casper, play in tournaments of champions. Casper often wins just by a hairbreadth. You could almost call him Hairbreadth Casper sometimes, because he evidences the almost infinitesimal difference between a really great golfer and a nearly great golfer. Why, then, does he so often win? I'm convinced it's the extra measure of practice and effort and devotion to his sport that accounts for his superb skill and ability to come through a winner when How to Promote and Use the Magazine competition is toughest. Now, how can we, with that little extra effort on our parts, convince some of our hard-toconvince potential subscribers that this Magazine is worth giving up some impulse purchase they don't really need, and an evening with the late-late show once a month? How can we accomplish this worthy objective? You have many things going for you on this Magazine. The size of the Magazine is conducive to reading in many convenient moments and places. The Reader's Digest uses a similar format for similar reasons. The Relief Society Magazine is almost the same width and just a little longer than the Digest. It fits easily into pocket or purse or on the bedside table, and weighs little when you hold it to read it. That can be important if you compare it with some of the oversize magazines published these days. Complete articles, as opposed to the "continued-on-page-so-andso" style, also encourage reading. You also have many appealing "graphics" or illustrations and page make-up. I especially noticed the array of scenic covers that were depicted in the little skit. The pictures are wholesome and beautiful. You wouldn't be afraid to leave them around the home—unlike several recent covers of our so-called "family magazines."' Good reading has many rewards that far outweigh the time and money we spend on it. The famous essayist Joseph Addison tells us that ''reading is to the mind what exercise is to the body." Reading stretches our mental muscles and expands our horizons. It takes us out of our mundane worlds and lets us travel as far as our imaginations and the picture-painting words of the authors can carry us. Reading keeps us vibrant, it keeps us alive and makes us far more interesting to our marriage mates and our families. It also is a form of insurance against mental aging. We are only as old as we think we are. Some people say that one way to keep alive is to keep interested in many things, and the way to keep interested is to read widely. A few minutes spent in reading each day can be the most profitable, rewarding investment that we make of our time. So it really isn't a question of being able to afford the time. The question is, can we afford not to invest it in good reading? It is one of your jobs to sell that idea. Now, one more final suggestion that I suspect is a little redundant because the little skit you had earlier is one example of what I am about to propose. For a number of years on our Sunday School General Board, we have had monthly reviews of The Instructor Magazine. We rotate this assignment among the Board members, and each _ individual gives this his own subjective approach, which adds "spice" and variety to the presentations. We recommend that the stakes do the same thing in their monthly preparation meetings, and the wards in their ward faculty meetings. Now, this need take only ten or fifteen minutes, if you do not try to give a predigested version of what is in the Magazine. What you want to do is to intrigue your audience to the point where they can hard- 

259 April 1967

 ly wait to get to the Magazine and read it. I am sure some of you have had classes from a great teacher, especially a great teacher of literature, who makes you want to get a certain book as quickly as possible and read what he has been talking about. I suspect that some of you may have encountered this in some of your lessons in Relief Society. You want more; you are hungry for more. This is what this kind of review should make you want to do. I haven't time this morning for a full-scale sample review of your October issue, but I just wanted to point out a few things that appealed especially to me. I managed to borrow a copy briefly from my wife who guards these Magazines rather jealously. Here is a typical sample of poetry that especially moved me: The firelight is warm and golden As I sit here alone; But each room is empty, silent Until you come. Then when I hear your whistle, And your footstep at the door, This place becomes alive, Happy, and secure. For by your very presence At evening when you come, The empty quiet of each room Becomes the peace of home. Enid F. Woolley Appropriately, it is entitled "Homecoming," and it has an element of universality about it that is one of the touchstones of great poetry. The emotion that is 'expressed can be felt as much in Salt Lake City as in far-off Tasmania, where this little poem originated. There is an intriguing article in this issue [October 1966] entitled "Our Children Earn Their Own 260 Allowances." After I had read this, I could hardly wait to try the system on our five allowance-hungry youngsters. I'll let you know how it works out. Recipes: I defy you to read through this section without getting hungry. I look at some of these recipes from far-off lands and have even clipped a few for my own file. I don't suppose I will ever get around to trying them, but maybe I can talk my wife into doing it. In the homemaking hints and recipe section, and in many other parts of the Magazine in recent months, I have noticed that The Relief Society Magazine has led the way in something that I think is of vital importance to Church magazines right now. That is a recognition that all of the Latterday Saints do not live along the Wasatch Front, or in Utah, or even in the United States. This is a universal Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with members scattered throughout the free world, and even beyond, and I find reflections of this throughout the recent issues of The Relief Society Magazine. This brings me to the ""Woman's Sphere" feature, with its intriguing woman-over-the-world symbol. As one other well-known woman's magazine once put in a slogan, "never underestimate the power of a woman," the power and influence of Latter-day Saint and other women throughout the world are documented in the pages of your Relief Society Magazine, and, notably, in this particular section. I noticed in the October Magazine examples from London, from Ohio, from North Wales, among others. How to Promote and Use the Magazine In the same October issue Elder Thomas. S. Monson of the Council of the Twelve, teaches us strength through obedience as only Elder Monson can teach it. And then there is the unusual, rich offering of so-called "fiction." I say "so-called" because the truths in some fiction are more precise and more meaningful than some of the things we treat as fact. And they are told in the rich idiom of the well-told story. Now the lesson departments must surely be among the bestread features in the Magazine, and I only saved them until last because I feel that the reading of the Magazine should not stop with these lessons, and I know in many instances that it does. I suspect that many women just read the lessons, and they read nothing else in the Magazine. I was especially impressed with Elder Robert K. Thomas' cultural refinement lessons. This term was a new one to me, but seemed most appropriate. Here he cites what some of our greatest English authors have had to say about the strength of humility. But this is really absurd of me. Why should I tell you about your Magazine? I am sure everyone of you here has read it from cover to cover. I won't embarrass you by asking for a show of hands. Now each of you here today, and your counterparts in all the wards and branches of the Church, are much more than Relief Society Magazine representatives. As Elder Ashton said last year, in essence, you carry to the world the only periodical on earth which delivers the restored gospel of the Master in a form especially written and edited for women. You are emissaries in the great cause, and a worthy work, and I pray that each of you here today may recognize the importance of this work and find your place in it and the best way in which to carry it forward. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. S\ la HILLS AGAINST THE SKY Dorothy J. Roberts Hills seem impediment against the sky, Refusing prairie peace and desert flower, Denying distance to the searching eye, Detaining dawn behind their massive bower. But bridge the chasm, climb the coral crest; In shade and hymn above the vista's blue, A flaming sunfall gathers in the west: Plain and sahara both belong to you.