The Relief Society Magazine - April 1967, Vol. 54, No. 4

Inviolate Lael W. Hill Who once has loved, shall be with love forever. Here is no sulking bird that will depart Leaving the sky unsounded, or the river Unvisited at dusk. Love in the heart Will murmur quiet comfort to the lover So long as time shall flow, or heaven wait, Telling in small sure echoes, over and over, Who once has loved shall live inviolate. Whom love has lifted to a while of soaring, However brief, is now no more alone; Companioned by what was, and softly hearing The words love made, of wind, or rain and stone, Who once has loved, whom love has held enchanted, Henceforth goes always beautifully haunted.

The Cover: Blossoms at Calumet Farm, Lexington, Kentucky Transparency by Claire W. Noall Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Early Blossoms, Santa Clara Valley, California Photograph by Don Knight

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

Great is the joy I feel in writing to you. I have been led to do so by reading so many letters from our sisters in different parts of the world. The Magazine has been a great help to me in fulfilling my responsibilities, and it has brought consolation to my heart when I have been discouraged. Once when I was discouraged about something to present in work meeting, I picked up the Spanish Relief Society Magazine (June 1966) and my eyes were attracted to the page displaying the little girl with her doll both very beautiful, the little girl's dress and the doll's dress matching. It was just what I needed. I realized that it was an answer to my prayer.

Susana Donoso de Villalobos Santiago, Chile

For more than a quarter of a century I have enjoyed the contents of the Magazine. The past few months I have appreciated it even more because we have a fine contributor from our home town Alda L. Brown. The Richmond Ward is so proud of her. Her poem "August" (August 1966) and "Tree House" (October 1966) with the accompanying picture by Dorothy J. Roberts, were exceptionally good. I have never read a publication that has so many choice articles as our Magazine.

Leona H. Carlson Richmond, Utah

For many years the women of Argentina have been waiting for the Magazine in Spanish, and now that we have it, we feel closer to Relief Society. When we receive it, we can see the change in the spirit of our sisters. To show you how thankful we are, we will try hard to do our best in using the material we receive through the Magazine.

Maria de Abrea Buenos Aires, Argentina

242

We are on a mission for the Church in Switzerland and enjoy it very much. Our daughter Elizabeth ordered the Magazine for us, and we enjoy getting it. When I was the representative for the Magazine many years ago in the Thirty-Third Ward, Salt Lake City, I always told the sisters "Find time to read it, because every article in it is very choice." Being a cook, I especially like the recipe section.

Anna Fassman Burgdorf, Switzerland

May I express my gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine. It has been such a blessing to us, especially here in the mission field. These dear Philippine sisters express to us their thanks for the help the Magazine gives them. They enjoy the special features and love to recount the inspirational remarks that President Belle S. Spafford gave to us at our June 5th, 1966 conference, when she and Sister Florence Jacobsen were here.

Hazel C. Huntington Makati, Rizal Philippines

Mother and I were pleased to discover Dorothy J. Roberts' fine article (in December) on Danish cookery. Those recipes, which have been so important to the many among our people who have a heritage from Denmark, should surely be preserved and used.

Iris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah

It was a great pleasure to us to see our "Tin-Can Tree" displayed in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. My daughter and I thank you very much. We have received letters from friends and relatives saying they had seen the pictures and description.

Gertrude P. Terry San Francisco, California

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.