[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 290 | General Feature | Morning Melody Wilma | Boyle Bunker]
Wilma Boyle Bunker w At the breakfast table one morning, our teenage son brought me up short with the remark, "What's the matter today, has everyone taken grouch pills?" "What do you mean by that?" I asked, with a hint of annoyance in my voice. "Well, I don't know what's happened," he answered, "but it sure is like a morgue around here." "Grouch pills'—'like a morgue'"—these words were quite an indictment for any home. Could it be that I was responsible for this atmosphere? I think I do as well as most of my friends, I rationalized to myself after everyone had left for work or school. I try to be a good mother, keep the house clean, the clothes washed and ironed, cook nutritious meals. Where am I falling short? Am I failing to create for my family a cheerful atmosphere that will radiate beyond the walls of our home? It was then that I decided to try a little secret experiment, a little disguised campaign to improve the situation, and, being a musician, I turned to music as my tool. My strategy was simple. Each morning as I prepared breakfast, put up the lunches, and got my family ready for the day's work, I would deliberately hum a little tune, or quietly sing a song. I was well aware that there would be some days when I just wouldn't feel like any kind of a song, but I was determined to give my experiment a try. Nothing happened for some time, and just as I had about decided that maybe my idea wasn't such a good one after all, the payoff came. When my son left the breakfast table one morning, he said enthusiastically, "Gee, Mom, that was a good breakfast. What's for dinner tonight?" and he went out of the door whistling the melody I had had such a struggle to sing that morning. Then my husband remarked, as he picked up the car keys and prepared to leave, "I don't know what's happened, honey, but things seem to be going a lot smoother lately," and he left the house humming the same tune. Maybe my little experiment does work, I said to myself, hardly daring to believe what I had just heard. I quickly cleared the table and washed up the dishes, and then, all of a sudden, grinned sheepishly as I realized that I, too, was unconsciously humming the tune I had sung earlier. "What do you know?" I said aloud this time. "It works both ways. I guess I'm a victim of my own experiment."