[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 270 | General Feature | Editorial: "He Is Risen" | Louise W. Madsen]
EDITORIAL Volume 54 April 1967 Number 4 W@ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor WB Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Trene C. Lloyd 270 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zetma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba 0. Carling '""He Ils Risen' w ''He is not here: for he is risen, as he said' (Matt. 28:6). This joyous and momentous announcement was made by the angel to Mary Magdalene and other women who had followed the Lord from Galilee, stayed by during the terrible ordeal of the crucifixion, and had come early that first morning of the week to render a loving service. They had waited for the first light of dawn to do a more thorough anointing and embalming of the body with precious oils and spices. Some of them had been present at the burial and had known the haste with which it was necessary for Joseph and Nicodemus to entomb the body of the Lord before the beginning of the Sabbath. Even with the angel's assurance ''Fear not ye," the women ''departed quickly with fear and great joy' and failed to comprehend at that moment the glorious meaning of the words '"'he is risen." Mary Magdalene, following the angel's instruction, hastened to tell the brethren, Simon Peter and "that other disciple, whom Jesus loved,'' who, doubtless, was John, that the body of the Lord was gone from the sepulchre, ''and we know not where they have laid him'' (John 20:2). Peter and John ran to the tomb and, seeing it empty, turned and went away sorrowfully because, as John frankly a states, ''For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead'' (John 20:9). Mary stayed by the tomb and, looking in, perceived two personages in white, sitting at the head and at the feet of where the body had lain. And then Mary turned away and, through her tears, she beheld another Personage who inquired of her, '"'Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou?'"' (John 20:15). It was Jesus, her beloved Lord, yet she dod not know him until he spoke her name—''Mary.'' Recognition flooded her being and she, in her ecstatic joy, uttered the worshipful word '"'Rabboni,'' meaning ''Master.'' As she in her reverent love was about to touch him, he said ''Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father' (John 20:17), and he told her to go and tell the brethren of his resurrection. '"'To a woman, to Mary of Magdala, was given the honor of being the first among mortals to behold a resurrected Soul, and that Soul, the Lord Jesus. To other favored women did the risen Lord next manifest himself, including Mary the mother of Joses, Joanna, and Salome the mother of the apostles James and John'' (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, 13th edition, page 681). To them the angels at the tomb explained the meaning of Christ's teaching concerning his resurrection, and as they hurried toward the city, "Jesus met them, saying, All hail' (Matt. 28:9). They fell down before him and ''held him by the feet and worshipped him." Mary Magdalene and the other women told the story of their experiences to the disciples, but the brethren would not yet believe. Not until they saw the resurrected Lord could they grasp the significance of the literal resurrection. Through these women who were first to hear the glorious words ''He is risen,' and through her, who was first to see the resurrected Christ, are all women blessed. Through them are all women given the example of courage, devotion, unwavering faith, and dedication to the work of the Lord. In no greater way has God bespoken his love for his daughters than in permitting them to witness the atoning sacrifice and the resurrection which opened the way for all to return to his presence. The great light of comprehension that dawned in the minds of those women as they saw the reality of the resurrection is the light that may come to us as we seek to know and do his work. L. W. M. 271 Cancer's Warning Signals Act as Radar for the Body V. J. Skutt — 1967 Crusade Chairman ws If every American knew and acted promptly on Cancer's Warning Signals, thousands of lives could be saved and untold suffering prevented each year from cancer. Years of experience have developed evidence that these Warning Signals are part of the body's early warning system—a radar that signals the presence of disease. If any signal appears, and persists for more than two weeks, it should be brought to the attention of a doctor, even if there is no pain. He can determine what it means. Chances are it is not cancer. Or, it may be a precancerous conditicn which can be easily removed and cancer prevented. However, if the signal should be a symptom of cancer, the patient has a much better chance of survival and cure if he heeds the Warning Signal than if he ignores it. This is based on the fact that cancer is among the most curable of the major killing diseases—if it is found early, and treated promptly and properly. However, the patient's responsibility for his own health does not end with the warning signals. Cancer is often a "silent disease' and does not always give an early warning of its presence. Thus, a patient has a better chance of avoiding the disease by not only knowing the warning signals, but by having an annual physical checkup.