Mama and the Magic Bag "No, we can't," Mama said, "I took that to Mrs. Armstrong." "Well, boys, let's have some of the nuts and candy from your stockings," Papa said, "because it won't matter if they do spoil our appetites now." "We can't give you any from our stockings, Papa, we took them to the Armstrong children," Ray said. Everyone laughed, and we made jokes and riddles while we ate our supper of bread and milk. From then on if anything was lost, we would ask, "Did you take it to the Armstrongs?" Mama never cried by the window any longer, she was too busy making carbolic salve, camphorated oil, liniment, and canker medicine from the recipes Grandpa Pugh had brought across the plains with him in the Magic Black Bag. They had been given to him by his Welsh ancestors, and given to Mama when she left for Canada. Mama always said she found a magic recipe for happiness in the Magic Bag that Christmas Eve, and she often told it to us: A lot of faith, with a lot of work will make everything turn out right. And never feel sorry for yourself—there is always someone in the world with more miseries than your own. All winter she went through blizzards, rain, winds, and floods to help children with croup, pneumonia, and broken bones. She left babies for ranch women, women on lonely homesteads, and women across the boundary line on the Indian reservation. Through it all she had a smile, time to tell us stories, and time to sing.

The 139th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, the 3d, 4th, and 5th of , in a time of harvest in the mountain valleys, and in a spirit of gratitude and rejoicing for the everlasting gospel. By ships of the sea and by planes of the air, by train, by bus, and in private cars, the saints journeyed to the place of gathering. Many walked from nearby homes, and all who attended the meetings heard the words of salvation, authentic and inspiring as in other times and other places since the glorious restoration and organization of the Church in these latter days. From many lands and many nations, from the continents and the islands of the sea came the members of the Church to be comforted, renewed, blessed, and directed. The Tabernacle was filled to overflowing and other thousands heard the addresses and the uplifting music in the Assembly Hall and in the Salt Palace nearby. Foreign visitors were privileged to hear the proceedings by direct translation. By radio and television, other thousands in many parts of the world participated in a renewed dedication of their lives to spiritual ideals and a devotion to service and brotherhood in their daily lives.

In addition to the Tabernacle Choir, three other choruses sang during the meetings: The Brigham Young University Combined Chorus, the Singing Mothers from Cottonwood, Mill Creek, Murray, and Wilford regions; and the MIA Girls Centennial Chorus. President David O. McKay, from his nearby home, presided at all the conference sessions, and the meetings were conducted by President Hugh B. Brown, President Nathan Eldon Tanner, President Joseph Fielding Smith, and President Alvin R. Dyer of the First Presidency. President Thorpe B. Isaacson was in his place during the conference.

Elder Marvin J. Ashton, former First Assistant YMMIA Superintendent, was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Words of appreciation and abiding love for Elder John Longden, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who passed away in August, were expressed by General Authorities and by many others who missed the presence of a beloved leader and inspired counselor.

In his opening address, delivered by his son Robert R. McKay, President David O. McKay spoke of the astronauts and their journey into the realms of outer space, saying "Members of the Church have always known through revelation of the numberless creations of God." Although God has created the universe and all therein, "man is the jewel of God." This is just another way of saying that the earth was created for man and not man for the earth. God gave to man part of his divinity. He gave man the power of choice, and no other creature in the world has it. So he placed upon the individual the obligation of conducting himself as an eternal being.

You cannot think of any greater gift that could come to a man or woman than the freedom of choice. You alone are responsible, and by wielding and exercising that freedom of choice, you grow in character, you grow in intelligence, you approach divinity, and eventually may achieve that high exaltation. That is a great obligation. Very few people appreciate it.

The roads are clearly marked—one offering animal existence, the other life abundant. In his closing address, read by his son Robert, President McKay expressed his love for the saints in all the world, admonishing them to righteousness, and testifying of his own great faith: "I wish to emphasize the fact that this great conference has testified to the hundreds of thousands listening in from all over the world that God lives, and furthermore that Jesus is His Beloved Son, the Savior of the world. We have also testified to the world that man is not living for himself, that his selfish desires should be overcome and controlled, and that he should render service to others." I am grateful for and pray that God will continue to direct and bless our General Authorities who have inspired us with their messages during the sessions of this great conference.

Leone G.