Christmas tree shaped cookies, my friend remarked to me: "It used to be that Christmas was a day. Now, Christmas is a season." We reflected together on these words as we continued wrapping gifts for a committee to take to anumber of senior citizens in our area. As I reached for the box of silver stars to fasten the foil paper, I remembered back to the silver star on top of the community Christmas tree when I was small. How eagerly we anticipated the surprises of that wonderful day of Christmas, living fully for one joyous day, remembering it for a whole year. In that moment of remembrance, I was glad that Christmas has been extended into an abundantly full season. How rich in friendship and fellowship and sharing is all the year because of active participation in a season of Christmas.

Trading of news and recipes is part of the Christmas season. One of the richest gifts I ever received for my kitchen came from a friend who lives in a convalescent home for the aged. She took time to copy from her re-tired missionary friends, who lived there, the various recipes from countries where they had served.

Just a step away from comparing recipes to the art of learning how to decorate differently for the Christmas season. Greenery and shrubbery which seem so familiar they are almost prosaic take on new luster when sprayed with gold or silver paint. Men who have never made an artistic design in their lives find it an absorbing hobby to see what they can do with the humble tumbleweed to turn it into a miniature Christmas tree.

Closely allied to this discovery of new talents in decorating is that of learning to express tastes through gift wrapping of packages. None of us can excel at everything, and if we decide we do not like to make fancy bows, we can learn to tie with red string or yarn, while the season of Christmas gives us a chance to try out our skills.

This is an opportunity for husband and wife to learn to work together in new ways, perhaps in painting a little red wagon, or enameling tins to hold cookies. Making things by hand helps to restore some of the joy of simplicity in Christmas planning, and one of the new ways in which this is expressed is through use of photography.

Pictures enable a family to make a gift showing their most precious possessions, their children. How eagerly we open the cards which seem destined to contain pictures of children and grandchildren. These seem to arrive in the mail earlier every year, a part of the trend of making a season of Christmas. This fellowship by mail is a good supplement to the companionship in person as evidenced by invitations to an open house.

Certain good friends in our community I do not see socially more than at Christmastime when their homes are opened to many friends. Yet the whole Christmas season is blessed when their invitations arrive for sharing "at home" courtesies. We enjoy their sandwiches and cookies, and may see the first candy canes of the season hanging from the limbs of the refreshment table tree.

One of the things we talk about during the social hour is the Christmas music to be presented soon. We discuss the annual Christmas festival of music held at the nearby university, and to which friends from out of town always make a pilgrimage, and where we have a chance to say "hello."

Not to be forgotten are the great gifts of Christmas music and drama offered by radio and television, for the Christmas season is universal in its appeal, cutting across boundaries of race and economic situation.

With all of these shared attractions, it is time to plan for the Season of Christmas. Christmas dinner and the day itself, within the walls of the home. Places are set for loved ones and perhaps a friend who would be lonely without this special invitation. The new doll is rocked, and the bicycle taken for its first ride, in homes where there are children. Older members open a book, but it may not be read fully because of happy memories which intrude.

Voices of the carolers who stopped by to sing in this block echo in my heart, interrupted by the paper carrier at the door who wants to say "thank you" for his new pencil set. Perhaps there is time to take all the family in the automobile out beneath the stars to see the specially decorated Christmas trees nearby.

Maybe there is an annual contest for the best outdoor decorations, and spotlights will be focused on a painted manger scene beneath a picture window. But all the houses seem to be specially decorated, each in its own way, significant tributes to the birthday of a King.

I think also of the homes far away from which messages of love and affection have come through the mail, and visualize the lights in their windows across mountains and oceans. The lights will not go out at the end of Christmas night. For it is the custom to extend decorations through to the coming of the New Year, and perhaps to Twelfth Night, as was done in earlier centuries.

In my heart is the light of hope and fellowship generated by this season of Christmas, and silently I say a prayer that its beauty may remain with me through all the routine busy days of the year ahead. Petunias Fly High

Helen Hinckley Jones

Whenever I go to bed, usually tired or feeling locked behind high fences, my reach. This dream often of one I don't need to ask a psychologist what the dream means. It first started to portray against fences when out with my mother's parents in Provo, Utah. When Vera and Be off together, leaving me to suffer the pangs of being across the front of Grandfather's house and garden see as the stockades that protected settlers from the Indians.

I must ha stood why I was left behind. What use grown-up nine and t have for a six-year-old tag-along? Ye That is the way I remember that Proveswisit. V Bob never got on their way without hearing Mother's swe for Helen." Anyway, I still have this dream and I rouse myself to think of my Grandfather Cheever and the day we talked about petunias. Grandfather had an amazing garden, but the flowers in it were not for picking. Children could look at the blossoms, smell them, enjoy them, but never pick them. No one ever took the trouble to explain to us children that Grandfather was a nurseryman and that the beautiful flowers yielded seeds only when they were left on the vine, so we thought Grandfather liked flowers more than people and that he was perhaps just a little bit selfish.

One day, Grandfather found me shaking the gate with all my strength and crying. He gave me a grayish peppermint from his pocket and invited me to walk with him in the garden. This was an unusual invitation. Grandfather was very old, at least he seemed so to me. When I heard the Bible stories about Noah and Methuselah, I always thought of Grandfather. I knew that he had been older than was usual on the frontier when he married my grandmother and Mother was their tenth child. I thought he didn't like children, but perhaps that was wrong because once before when I had been left behind, he had asked me if I could count to a hundred. I had already learned the system. I could count into the billions and trillions. As I remember it, he begged me to stop counting before I got even to a thousand. This day he suggested a walk in the garden before I could say, "Nine hundred and ninety-nine."

We walked down a row of radiant snapdragons. Carefully he pinched off one little face and holding it between his thumb and forefinger, he showed me how it could open and close its mouth. "Let's pick some," I suggested hopefully, and his answer was just a shake of his head. He pointed with his cane and we moved over to the cinnamon pinks—I can still smell them. In another part of the garden, I admired the stock and the phlox. I don't know at what point in our walk I began to beg constantly to be allowed to pick at least one flower. Perhaps I had been tempted by the peonies which Grandfather raised mostly for funerals, or by the sticky-stemmed moss roses.

Ears old that she and voice calling, "Wait 904 ur Visit was Over." He went into the house to sit in his favorite platform rocker with the crocheted antimacassar. I went back to my vigil by the front gate. That second choices are "petunias" and that they are flowers, too. So I've gone through life picking flowers and quite a few of them have wonderfied daughters! Each of them has brought me a grown-up son that I didn't have the responsibility of rearing; and one of them shares with me three chapters 7 No man likes to antagonize his employer, but Kim was in a cold rage at Mr. Shelton's coming to his home and offering to buy Kim's father's beloved family homestead in Utah.

"I told you Dad's place was not for sale, Mr. Shelton." "So you did," said Mr. Shelton, ignoring the flashing anger in Kim's eyes. "I figured if I talked to the real owner we might do business. I'm prepared to offer twelve thousand, sight unseen, just from your description of the property." "T wasn't describing it for sale. It is not for sale," repeated Kim. "Why don't you let me talk to your father about it?" said Mr. Shelton. "There's no need to," said Kim's father with dignity. "The place is not for sale, has never been for sale." If Kim hasn't, if Kim didn't want to—"

He looked at Kim and was reassured by the expression on his son's face. "The place is not for sale," he finished. "Sorry," said Mr. Shelton. "No offense meant. I really want that place, though, from your son's description, and if you change your mind." "Dad won't change his mind," said Kim ominously, with finality.

After Mr. Shelton had gone, Kim's father continued to think about the offer. "Are you sure, Kim? Why do I cling onto my possessions? I can't live much longer, and I can't work any more. If I sold the place, I could divide the money and give each of you children your share of the inheritance." "None of us has a share of inheritance, Dad. An inheritance is something left from one who dies, and you are not dead. None of us knows previously the date of his death. When we had the accident, I thought for a moment it was mine—and Tommy's. You could easily live ten or even fifteen more years, so now let us not talk of inheritances." "T wouldn't mind living that much longer, if she were alive," his father said wistfully, and they left the subject.

It seemed to mark a change from the negative to the positive for the rest of the family. With only three months to go, Rosemary and her mother were plunged into sewing sessions whenever Cary was not there to help Rosemary with the refinishing of the bed or some other piece she had picked up. A letter came to her as a result of the note she had left at the pawn shop. A Mr. Feidler assured her he had all the silverware she needed to make up her twelve place settings except one fork and he would be happy to keep on the lookout for that. It was still available at half the market price for new silver. Rosemary was overjoyed, and bought it immediately, as she had been saving for just this opportunity.

"Mother, if you have the cash you can buy things much cheaper," she said. "But you have to buy on the spot or you lose out." Tommy had persisted until he made the opportunity to talk to Lizbeth King. He reported the circumstance to the family. "T don't have much time to do things the proper way," he had told her bluntly, cornering her in the hall. "I meant what I said Heart Room for Home about marrying you, and I feel you should give me the opportunity to tell you why, for me to tell you about myself and for me to find out more about you. Every girl owes it to herself to explore all possibilities."

"What did she say to that?" said Rosemary. "Her answer threw me— for a moment. She said that obviously I knew all about her or I wouldn't have asked her to marry me, so why didn't we take ten minutes for a lemonade while she learned all about me," related Tommy. "The ten minutes stretched into four hours and we cut three classes.

I took her to the beach by that rocky cove and she is coming to dinner next Sunday." "To dinner? Here?" exclaimed Tommy's mother. "Oh, my goodness! What can we serve?" "Tommy, how masterful!" said Rosemary. "If you weren't my brother, I'd marry you myself. Those fierce eyes! That commanding lip!" "I wouldn't marry a spoiled brat like you," said Tommy, but he planted on her lips the kiss he no doubt longed to plant on Lizbeth. Rosemary pretended a swoon. "Tommy," wailed Mary Ann. "These drapes! That couch! What do you want served?" "Bees' knees on cinnamon toast," said Tommy. "Now, Mom, don't do one thing you wouldn't do for an ordinary Sunday dinner. My campaign is based on simple honesty. If she doesn't like my family the way they are, she can't like me. I told her the worst parts of my nature first off, and all the mean things I ever thought in my life." "You dared to do that?" said Rosemary. "Sounds as if you were trying to drive her off." "That's what she said, but it intrigued her so much she had to come to dinner to see what a monstrous family I belonged to." Kim and his father had been taking in the scene behind the newspaper. "Her fellow, the one she's engaged to, what about him?" "I didn't ask and she didn't tell me," said Tommy. "That's better," commented his grandfather. "King Arthur's knights—they couldn't always see their opponents, either, dressed up in armor as they were. In the end a man has to stand on his own merits, not on the demerits of his opponent." Of course Mary Ann went all out for the Sunday dinner, roast beef and Parker House rolls, her specialty, cherry pie, the best linen and crystal, the silverware polished to a satiny finish. Lizbeth had been visiting a friend the first time Tommy saw her at Church, but she lived in Alhambra with her parents, except for school where she boarded with a friend. Then Tommy went to fetch her and the table was set, the food ready for serving when they arrived. Of course Cary was there, but the girls and their families were otherwise occupied. Seven at the table, including Father Freeman, were not too many and gave time for adult conversation. Lizbeth was socially gracious, but reserved, and she was all that Tommy said— with a regal bearing and proud eyes, dark blue fringed with black lashes, a rosepetal skin and shining black hair to her waist. What Mary Ann and Kim liked about her was her modesty of dress, feminine and sweet. "I went to BYU," she explained. She listened more than she talked, but when she did make a contribution it was brilliant and to the point. She didn't really melt until after the meal, when Rosemary invited her to the garage to show what they were doing with the furniture. Cary and Tommy tagged along and they came back all chattering at once. She was intensely interested and big-eyed over Rosemary's silver. "Tell me exactly how you got it," she said. "I want that man's name because I want to do likewise. I think it is fabulous." "I like your girl," said Mary Ann in an aside to Tommy. Watching the metamorphosis of Tommy from an ordinary college student, a familiar son, into a man in love was like seeing a cocoon unfold into a brilliant butterfly. There were the hours of despair, when Tommy came home and threw himself, moaning, onto his bed, behind locked doors, and the hours when he was illumined with the sweet secrets of his love for Lizbeth. Finally, there came the day when he appealed to his mother. "I've got to talk to you, Mother. All through this I have been thinking of myself. Me! Tommy Freeman, as if my own happiness was all that mattered. Sometimes I think of this poor guy she is engaged to. He must be a pretty nice fellow to appreciate Lizbeth enough to want to marry her, and he's in Vietnam, fighting for his country. What right do I have to barge in if they are in love and were happy without me?" "Why did you come to me? This is a man's problem. Why didn't you ask your father?" "No! It's a woman's problem. Tell me what you think, would think if you were Lizbeth. Then I'll talk to Dad." "Tommy, you stated it fully the first time you spoke to Lizbeth. Any girl deserves a choice. Girls have been choosing between the men who love them since Eve. It is a sad thing for a girl to marry a man only because she has no other choice. Now you have gone so far it is out of your hands. Now it is Lizbeth's problem. What you need to find out from your father is how to take it if she chooses the other man. That has been the man's role since Adam." "You don't think I should back off now, then?" "Certainly, if you can." "That's just it. I can't." "Well, there's your answer, Son." Time picked up momentum as the weeks passed. Mary Ann, beleaguered with wedding plans, had little time to worry about her father-in-law beyond his meals and clean clothes, and nobody else did. He said little and dodged the ladders and paint buckets along with the rest of them. Swarms of young people came and went, Rosemary's bridesmaids and their friends, Cary's young men friends. The refrigerator door banged constantly as stores of food disappeared like butter on hot corn. "Like Grand Central Station," grumbled Kim. "When it's over I'll hibernate," promised Mary Ann. "The more I think of Dad's cool place in the summer the more I long to be there." As if there wasn't enough to do, getting the house cleaned, the sewing done, the wedding lists made out, the garden ready—for Rosemary had decided to have her reception there, with windlamps reflected in the pool—Tommy approached her to type his thesis. "You're a good typist, Mom. How about it? It would save the money and it is only sixty-five pages. There is a rush on it because the Dean has asked me to present it as a paper at the symposium and I want it to do double duty." She was opening her mouth to say she couldn't possibly when she remembered that Rosemary had taken most of her time. It was only fair that Tommy have some of it. The thesis turned out to be seventy-five pages done in practically a non-stop marathon, painstaking work, tables, graphs, and charts, but among the families he used as case histories to support his title "The Place of the Aged in Today's Society," their own stood out. His grandfather was etched sharp as a diamond—"No, I never took steps to build social security; I don't believe in milking the Government," and "No, I don't believe in insurance companies. It seems too much like trying to get something for nothing."

I put my money in the bank and those in- insurance fellows can do the same. That way we're both ahead." His impact on the family was there—Rosemary's right-about face from dependence to independence, Tommy's own, even the change of Mary Ann from a fashionable working woman to a homemaker, and Kim's emergence as the real head of the household. All because they had brought Kim's father to live with them instead of selling his beloved homestead and putting him in a home for the aged. Tommy was fair. He showed how this might not work for some families. He outlined his parents' dilemma—the unfinished payments on the mortgage, the upkeep of a too large home when the children were gone. Tommy offered no solution, and Mary Ann wished he would. He was merely the scientific observer, and said it would be interesting to see the drama played out to the end, with a satisfactory solution for them all, or failure, and that it deserved further study. There was no time to think of either alternative just now, but both hovered over Kim and Mary Ann like dark-winged birds. The thesis was done and approved barely in time for Tommy's flight to Washington and the symposium, where he made a brilliant presentation of his paper, according to the Dean. It would be published in the fall and included in the Society's Proceedings of the Thirty-