The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 102—Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions—Doctrine and Covenants

Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.)

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: As the Latter-day Saint woman gains a greater testimony that the Doctrine and Covenants was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration, she seeks to conform her life to its teachings.

The Doctrine and Covenants gives direction to the fulfilling of the Lord's promises unto the ancient prophets. The importance of this book in the plan of salvation was given at the November 1831, conference of the Church, in the following words of the Prophet Joseph Smith:...

Being the foundation of the Church in these last days, and a benefit to the world, showing that the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom of our Savior are again entrusted to man; and the riches of eternity within the compass of those who are willing to live by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God—therefore the conference voted that they prize the revelations to be worth to the Church the riches of the whole earth, speaking temporally.
 
In appreciation for the books of scripture received from the Lord by that time, the following was also indicated by that conference:

The great benefits to the world which result from the Book of Mormon and the revelations which the Lord has seen fit in His infinite wisdom to grant unto us for our salvation, and for the salvation of all that will believe, were duly appreciated.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 1, pp. 235-36 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.)

Among the reasons for the evaluation that Joseph Smith had done more for the salvation of men in this world than any other, except Jesus, was his bringing "... Forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants." (D&C 135:3.)

As a modern book of revelation, the Doctrine and Covenants is directed to the people of this generation. It is the voice of the Lord Jesus Christ revealing the way of salvation, both in this life and in the world to come. There are three ways in which the Doctrine and Covenants makes this contribution.

(1) It warns individuals and nations of impending destruction if repentance is not forthcoming.
(2) It sets forth, in plainness, the gospel of salvation.
(3) It witnesses to the truth that there is a life beyond the grave.

When the revelations received up to 1831 were presented to a conference of the Church, the Lord gave his "Preface" to those commandments. In that revelation, reference is made to the apostate condition of the religious world and the nearness of the second coming of Christ. (D&C 1:11-12.)

His word is to be known to all men in this life, and in the life to come. The turning away from and the changing of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the past have brought many to seek after false gods. (D&C 1:15-16.)

Despite the fact that the gospel has been restored in its fulness, men will continue in error until, as Isaiah said, they are desolate; "... Therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left." (Isa. 24:5-6.)