SO ig 4 Ss oY y ij ' ba { hi Wii LV ee -~ ~ ~ y - - e 2 * i ™ ~ by er women er eee ae ee - « « I ad - a a = ma é - 4 - -. " a" «" - « - B i i be + -: * he « * ae; ¢ t a « « " « BS l * « *« JOYOUS GREETINGS FOR 1969 The General Board extends a joyous greeting to every member of Relief Society as the year 1969 rises on the horizon. It is a time to look back, to weigh the events of the past year, and to look forward, resolving more vigorously to pursue eternal truth as it applies to one's individual life. How have weaknesses, sadness, goodness, and joys positioned one during the past year? The measure will be the degree of obedience to the first and second great commandments. Is the year richer in the essence of love which envelops one's thoughts and actions? A perfect love of Christ is the far goal. In its light all incidents of life are transmuted into eternal verities and viewed from the pinnacle of acceptance, "... Not my will, but thine, be done." (Luke 22:42.) In seeking the love of Christ it is heartening to recall what is written on the rich young ruler who could not forsake his worldly riches to take up the cross and follow Christ. In spite of this weakness, it reads "Then Jesus beholding him loved him." (Mark 10:21.) So Jesus is ready to love everyone in spite of personal weaknesses and failings. Never need one feel forsaken or alone. Instead, a wellspring of thankfulness and nearness will warm and flood the soul. May 1969 become a memorable year of personal eternal progress amid the conflicts of the world. Love will bring peace to the soul and allow one to live in the world and yet not be of it, all the time pursuing the goal of eternal life. May this be the precious experience of every Relief Society member throughout the New Year. Affectionately, General Presidency erage ee Pee The Cover: Farmstead in Sanpete Valley, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Frontispiece: Winter to the East, Near Snyderville, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Veil the Future Norma Bowkett) ===
Yet, how the gentle-fingered dawn Reaching quietly across its wake Will find the dream and more beside For your empty arms to take. —Dorothy J. Roberts BEST WISHES FOR A a a fe *K DESERET [—PeEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 78 < S, 5: i; History of 1842-1966 A gift for every Latter-day Saint woman to be treasured in all seasons— @The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — Gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid I Orders received at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main « Salt Lake City

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Maurine M. Haycock Appointed to the General Board ) ===
Little David Wendell Buchanan and Rebecca Ann Morrison will soon be saying, "Grandma" and "Grandpa." Truly the Haycock "cup runneth over." 17 POL CLC LC ROR QOKLRRRACRAeRLL 5000000000 00 0000 DO YF 0rFgggeggdgda7ds g YY JY y Q y Y U 4 y OQ GIANT. I I System in Genealogical Work 1969 097?90 9 QdQoq00 2 08QgQOoa8 8g 0000080 0 @ YQ 0 Y 4 y Y GU Y UO Y UY fff O& 2 G2 Dw th G = vr OU UY ig oggQgdgdggdg¢egggedgeeeseaedad ke Zia > >. D.2. D. D.2.2.2.2.2.2. 2.2 em em eN 0000009 OQ Prepared by the Genealogical Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints w Of vital interest to members of the Relief Society was an announcement made in the October 1968 priesthood meeting of the Semi-annual General Conference of the Church. It was disclosed in this meeting by a member of the First Presidency that the Genealogical Society has devised a more efficient system for preparing records to be used for temple ordinance work. During the seventy-five years of its organization, the Genealogical Society has tried to be of assistance to the saints in the work that Joseph Smith the Prophet described as "one of the greatest and most important subjects that God has revealed." During these years the Genealogical Society has continually searched to discover better and more efficient ways of performing the work of identifying our deceased relatives so the research and temple ordinance work could go forward more efficiently and rapidly. Acting under the direction and guidance of the First Presidency of the Church, and after prayerful and thoughtful 18 deliberation, a simplified system of recording identifying information of our kindred dead has been developed. Under this new plan the work of submitting records for temple ordinance work can go forward with greater ease and accuracy, and with much speedier processing of the tabulated information. In January 1969, a new instructional booklet will be made available to the members of the Church which will provide the details of this new program for simplifying and _ recording research work. Accompanying the booklet will be a sample form of a new, easy-to-use record called the Individual Entry Form. This form will allow individual names to be submitted to the Genealogical Society for temple ordinance work. Heretofore, only completed family group records have been accepted which has forced our saints not only to gather information for the family as a whole, thus slowing their efforts, but has also required them to make complex decisions beyond their capacity to do so. Under the new system the names of individuals will be submitted so that the temple work can be performed on an individual basis. The new program will be called the GIANT System, which name is taken from the initial letters of the complete name, Genealogical Information And Name Tabulation System. The new manual explaining the procedures for submitting individual names for ordinance work will be very concise and will consist of only twenty-seven pages of instruction. The Prophet Joseph taught,... That we redeem our dead, and connect ourselves with our fathers which are in heaven, and seal up our dead to come forth in the first resurrection; and here we want the power of Elijah to seal those who dwell on earth to those who dwell in heaven. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 337-338.) The GIANT System is so simple that all members of the Church from twelve years of age and up can use this method to comply with and fulfill the Lord's direction to the Church. Following the publication and distribution of the new instructional brochure, there will be a six-month period in which to complete and submit to the Genealogical Society all family group records already in preparation under the present system. During this period the Society can be acquainting themselves with the new system. After July 1, 1969, no more family group records prepared under the old system will be accepted by the Society. This will give the Society time to complete the processing of all records in its possession by The GIANT System in Genealogical Work—1969 1 October 1969. Beginning 1 October 1969, the Society will begin to accept the new individual entry. All records of research work should be submitted under the new plan on the new individual entry form and on family group record forms prepared under the new system. It is not to be inferred that the family group record will no longer be used or that it is being modified or changed. The Genealogical Society will still accept work submitted on these forms, but these will then be prepared in accordance with the simplified instructions which are part of the GIANT System. It will be more advantageous, in most instances, for the saints to use the individual entry forms for all future work when the information gathered will qualify the sheet for acceptance by the Society. The present program of ward record examiners will be continued without change. A modified instructional booklet for ward record examiners will be issued, but no change in procedures will be made. Relief Society sisters all over the Church will find this simplified program for submitting names for temple work to be easily understood and simple to fill out. The GIANT System will aid the saints better to carry out the divine edict of saving our dead and becoming saviors on Mount Zion. The Relief Society Presidency will present information in greater detail in future issues of the Relief Society Magazine so that our sisters will be well-informed and prepared to assist their husbands in priesthood genealogical work.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out) ===
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me copies of LIVING, LOVING and MARRYING eecopies ORDEAL IN MEXICO Total Cost $2000.00 I enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [J Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 32% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Jan. R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Your Beneficial Life dollars work for you—and your community. Every family with growing children needs shelter—both physical shelter from the elements and financial shelter from adversity. The dollars you invest in Beneficial Life insurance help provide both: first, of course by protecting your family's all-important income. And second, by helping many families to own their own homes. Currently Beneficial Life mortgage money is helping provide homes for more than 6,000 families —which would make up a city the BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsurance Fompany Virgil H Smith, Pres Salt Lake City, Utah size of Tempe, Arizona or Covina, California! 5 8 6 () EQ I G 0) p {ae" - Se RES ater eres oS * a Magazine.