	C. DANIELS Sec'y.

	Special meeting of the Kanosh ReliefSociety
(Willard  County)  Nov.   12th, 1880.  Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D.  Young  visited  us
to-day  on  their  way  to  St. George,  and  we
gladly announced a meeting  so that the breth-
ren and sisters could  have  the  opportunity  of
listening to these  noble sisters.  Our  meeting
room was filled.  The meeting  was  called  to
order by President Adelia A. Kimball and op-
ened with singing and prayer.
	Sister Kimball expressed  her pleasure at re-
ceiving a visit from Sister  Snow and   Young,
and hoped they would be blessed in their labors,
and then introduced Sister Zina  D.  Young  to
the meeting.
	Sister Young  made an eloquent and earnest
appeal to all present, said our  Relief  Societies
are a power  for  good  amongst  us.  They  are
not only intended as a relief  to  the  poor,  but
also a relief to the Bishops.  The teachers  of
the Relief Societies  should  be  filled  with  the
Spirit of God.   Said there seemed to be a lack
of faith  amongst  us;  but she  had  never  seen
greater  manifestations  of  the  healing  power
than of late;  felt that the Latter-day Saints did
not  appreciate  the  blessings  of  God  as  they
ought.  The blessings of the sealing ordinances
were not appreciated—the Prophet Joseph was
chastened before  he accepted  the  law  of  Cel-
estial  Marriage.   An  Angel appeared  to  him


and threatened that God would take the priest-
hood from him,  unless he established that prin-
ciple on  the earth.  Said  the 'Relief Societies
were designed  to increase  love and  sympathy
among the  sisters, was pleased  to hear  that a
Primary  Association  had  been  organized in
Kanosh, It was one of the most important or-
ganizations.  The youth of Zion were  thirsting
for knowledge;  counseled  obedience  to the
priesthood. Urged  the  sisters  to  plant  out
mulberry  trees so that  employment  might  be
found for our children and others which would
be profitable,  and  enable the people to become
self-sustaining.
	Sister E. R. Snow said she was pleased to meet
the sisters of Kanosh.  Sixteen years had elap-
sed since she  had  passed  through  the  settle-
ment before, was  encouraged by  the  presence
of the brethren.  Our interests are both in the 
kingdom of God and  cannot  be divided, the
Gospel of Christ is designed to unite our labors.
Anything that is  calculated  to disunite comes
of evil.  The Relief Societies  are organizod as
a strong help to the  priesthood.  All  our tal-
ents, time  and energies should  be  devoted to
the kingdom  of God.  At the time of  our bap-
tism we covenanted to be his, but our profession
don't amount  to  much.  We  must  keep  our
Covenants.  We often speak  of having obeyed
the Gospel, that will require all our time in this
life and very  probably  will  have to  be  com-
pleted in eternity.  It  will  not answer for  us
to live part of God and  part  for  the world.
We need to work  out  our  own  salvation.  A
mother's first duty is at home with her children,
but how can a mother retain the Spirit of God
unless she avails herself  of  the opportunity of
obtaining  those  refreshing, enlightening inful-
ences which can only be obtained by attending
meetings in the Lord's house.
	Our Relief  Societies  were  organized by  re-
velation.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith stated
that they were not only to relieve the poor and
assist the bishops but to save souls.
	The organization is so  constituted as to  be
self-governing.  Every  good  Latter-day Saint
sister  should  be  an  active  member  thereof.
When  the  societies  were  first  organized  the
sisters crowded to the meetings, but now  many
have to be coaxed to attend.  They seem ignor-
ant of the  importance  of the work.  We  need
mutual  assistance and  can  only  obtain  it by
meeting  together.  Our  children  have been
neglected in the past and many have grown up
infidels.  Their minds have been charged with
knowledge  and  their  mental  capacities have
been crowded to the exlusion of spiritual life.
It requires  the  physical,  mental,  moral and
spiritual equally  developed  to  make  a  good
saint.  Said she would  give  the  sisters a sure
key to  success,  "Never shirk a duty!  Never!."
If small duties  are  neglected  the  light  of the
spirit withdraws.  We  need constant training.
There's not  many  of us  have as much faith as
the  2000  Nephite  boys  going  to  battle  who
"knew they would not be slain."  Our children
who  leave  this  life  in chilhood are sure of
the Celestial  Kingdom.  How can  we be sure
of it?  Only by knowing that  we are doing good
and keeping the  commandments of God. has
God given you ability sister?  It should be used
for the good of others.  We  are  responsible to
God for our talents.  The members of our soci-
eties should  be  united and  not  yield  to  fault-
finding.  When  visiting,  the  teachers should
administer to  the  sick  and was and  anoint
them also  confirm  these  blessings  upon  them
by the laying  on  of  hands.  We  need  to be
filled with the  Spirit of God.  If we put  our
trust in  God  and  earnestly  contend  for  faith
we shall receive it.  The Lord says  he will be
enquired of.  A formal  prayer  is  not  always
necessary  but  faith  must  be  exercised. The
Lord wants us to  be in earnest.  We need the
Spirit of God to guide  us in all our household
affairs.  Our position as Mothers in Israel is as
much higher than the  women of the  world as
heaven is above the earth.  We  should  be full  of
kindness  and love.  Our  labors here  are  ap-
preciated above.  A record is kept, and we can
never lose our reward.
	The Relief Societies  commenced  their work
without capital;  with  a  few  rags  and  a  little
patchwork  and  by  perseverance  have  made
their own capital.
	In 1876 when called upon  for a report to be
sent to the Centennial, the Secretaries had dis-
bursed between $93,  and $94,000.  Since then
the  branches  have  increased  and  the  mem-
bers  multiplied.  There  are  now  about  300
branches.  Some in the  Islands of  the Sea, in
Australia,, Europe and elsewhere.  All are en-
gaged in a good work and  their  labors are  re-
corded;  concluded by  exhorting  the Saints so
to live as to secure all  the  blessings of the Ce-
lestial Kingdom.
	Sister A.  Woodard said  that it was a  great
pleasure to her to hear  the sisters  speak  such
encouraging words.  It was 26  years since she
first spoke with Sister E, R. Snow in Salt Lake
City after crossing the  plains  and in the hour
of her bereavement when she spoke such words
of comfort and consolation  that it did her soul
good and she could  never  forget it;  urged the
sisters to obey  the  counsel  given  and  prayed
that God would bless  the sisters.
	After a few remarks from  Bro. H. Christen-
sen, this  most  enjoyable  meeting  was  closed
with singing and prayer.
					R. GODDARD, Clerk.


