DARE TO DO RIGHT.
			   -----------
	To the inhabitants  of  America,  who  enjoy
the blessed right of doing as they please,so long
as  they  do  not  infringe upon another  man's 
rights, it may be hard to  believe, at first, that
the Catholic Priests hold such  power  over the
people anywhere else.  One  of  the many  rea-
sons for this  the Catholics firm belief that his
sins will not be remitted in heaven, unless they
are remitted by the Priest, on earth;  and  that
nothing but blind obedience  to the priestcraft,
will secure his salvation.  Add to that spiritual
sway, the fact that the Priest can (in proportion
to his degree)  hold  out to the people honors and
lucrative  position on one hand, and destitution
or even  death  on  the  other;  and  you  will  only
need  to  read-the  lives  of the  Popes  and their
Cardinals to draw a true estimate of the bond-
age  of  the  Italian  people  for  centuries.  A
people once so  proud and fair!
	Thirty-six years ago, it was a common thing to
hear of Jewish and Protestant  children being
abducted in broad  daylight, to be thrown into
Monasteries,  and  there  incarcerated  for  life.
The perpetraters of these cruelties would obtain
the absolution of their sins for saving a heretic's
soul. Were there none courageous and united
enough to rebel?  Yes  in many  instances, but
they were unsuccessful.
	The inhabitants of the  valleys  of  the Alps,
known as the  Waldenses, are  the  descendants
of  a  faction, who  having  dissented  from the
Roman Church, were persecuted, and driven to
the Alps;  in to the crags  and caves  of which
mountains they were  pursued, hemmed in  and
tortured most barbarously.  Those who succeeded
to escape, fled through the pass of St. Bernard,
into  France, and  there  remained  until  death
removed their pursuers.
	Returning to Italy, they settled in the valleys
which had been drenched  with their ancestors'
blood;  and their children to-day, can recite the
story of  their  persecutions,  as  well  as their
catechism.
	The Province  embracing  those  Valleys, is
the  province  of  Pinerolo.  Their  principal
towns are:  Pinerolo,  Luzerna,  Torre, San Se-
condo, San Giovanni besides many small  settle-
ments on bleak and almost barren heights.  The
climate in most of those towns is much  like the
climate of  Utah;  differing  according  to their
proximity to the  highest  mountains.  In  most
places, they raise maize, rye, potatoes,  waln uts
chesnuts and grapes,  on slopes facing the South.
In business transactions, places  of worship and
schools the  French  language  is  spoken and
taught; but privately they speak a dialect called
Patois (Patwah,)  a mixture  of  French and 
Piedmontese.
	The Waldenses are hardy  industrious  and
frugal, but in some localities somewhat degener-
ated in stature and intelligence.
	After the  battle  of  Waterloo, in which
Colonel C.  Beckwith  lost a  limb, and  almost
his life;  the gentleman as soon as convalescent,
determined to  travel  in  France,  Switzerland
and Italy; he  visited  the Waldenses  and be-
coming interested in them, settled among them,
and spent his fortune  in  building schools and
churches in their midst.  Mr.  Beckwith also
aided many efficient scholars  of  both sexes, in
obtaining seats in Colleges  and Universities of
Switzerland and  Prussia.  Up  to  1847,  the
Waldenses or indeed any other so called  here-
tic, could  not  own houses or lands, in their  own 
names, (except in their own province)  nor
could their dead be burried only  by  the road
side.  Their young men were drafted  to serve
in the army but not to be promoted;  nor could
they enjoy  any  civil  rights  any more  than a
felon. 
	Words fail to portray the joy and enthusiasm
that filled every bosom (excpeting the  priest-
craft)  in  the kingdom of Piedmont, when  Vic-
tor Emmanuel granted his  people a  Constitu-
tional government, liberty of press  and liberty
of worship, emancipating  the Jews  and  Wal-
denses and granted to all the same rights.
	A whole week was  spent in national festivit-
ies, especially  in  the  Capital  where  the  long
despised Valdese was  sought  and feasted;  and
the shouts  of  Viva  il Re  and Viva  I  Valdesi
echod  through  the streets  and  halls  from
morn  till  night.  Every  year on the  17th of
February the Anniversary  of  the  Emancipa-
tion, these festivities are repeated with as much
enthusiasm  as  the  Americans  celebrate  the
Fourth  of July.  Long  processions  of the Un-
ion  of  all  trades  headed by  the  National
Guards  and  two  immense  chariots, one con-
taining a life size Statue representing the God-
dess  of Liberty,  the  other  a  printing press,
make their way through  the  principal  streets
and squares and up to the Royal  Palace where
their demonstrations of love  and gratitude  for
the King, would  be deafening.
	Victor Emmanuel was not satisfied with free-
ing his people in Piedmont, Savoy and Sardinia;
but later on succeeded in freeing the Lombardies
the Roman  Empire or  States and the  Sicilies
from the Austrian and Papal Yoke.
	Few Kings have accomplished as much  good
in a reign  of about 30 years (more or less;) and
although he had his  faults,  which  were  always
magnified by bigoted and narrow minded men,
I trust that his name in the Eternal Records, is
on the list of the  truly  great ones, who in this
life have dared to do right.
						E.C.F.
	Morgan Nov. 21.


A NORTH Adams inventor has devised a plan
for lighting Hoosac Tunnel by electricity.


