MORE TALK.
		    ---
	FROM HOMESPUN.
		   ------
	Dear, dear!  how  busy  I've  been  since  you
were  here  before.  I  have  had  little  or  no
time to think of anything else but cans, catsup,
preserves and  pickles.  The  girls  were  here
the other day, and I  gave  them  quite a bit of 
my  mind  about  what  kind  of  husbands to
look out  for.  I  don't  suppose  above  one or
two will ever think of it again, but  it  may do
some  good--Quien  Sabe?  I do wish I might
help  some  of  them to avoid  the quicksands of
married  life.  I  am  real  glad  you  brought
Fanny along, for  I  want to  say a word or two
to her.  How soon do you  and Alec expect to
be  married?  A  month?  Now, my  girl, you
have a bridge  of  one  month between  you and
the great Unknown beyond.  There are  many
wise, good things written  about this sometimes
painful, sometimes beautiful  thing, called mar-
riage;  but come, lay  your head in my lap, and
let me tell you a few things with my lips.  They
will speak with  so  much  more  force than has-
tily-read  written  words.  You  love  him, dear,
don't you?  How anxious  you are to reach the
first cycle in your wedded life with as much of
the sweet passion of love as now possesses you,
are  you not?  I  won't tell  you  how carefully
you must guard  your love, but rather  tell you
how to cherish it.  When  you are  newly wed-
ded, many little things will be unnoticed by you
that  will  afterwards  be  very  pregnant  of re-
sults.  The first, and, I think, most  important
of  all  things  is,  avoid  looseness  in  talk, in
 thoughts, in deeds.  Oh, Fanny, your womanly
modesty is  your own bright  jewel;  never let  it
slip from you.  The old adage  about  familiar-
ity breeding  contempt is more applicable here
than anywhere else.  Let your married life be
as pure,  as  sacred,  as  precious  as  when you
first thrilled beneath  your  lover's  kiss.  Be
true to your womanly instincts.  You may not
be blessed, as  I  am,  with  a  husband  who  has
been carefully reared by a modest, pure mother;
but  at  least  you  can  inspire  a  feeling of re-
spect in the breast of him you  love, which re-
spect is the chit of the love you prize.  If you
commence  by  allowing  yourself  gradually to
become selfish, goodby  to  your peace. it's no
use saying love is unselfish.  Human nature is
selfish.  And  you'll  find  out,  if  you  are not
careful, that  your wishes and Alec's will clash
sometimes, and  perhaps  cause  a  jar.  At  first
it is no  sacrifice to give up your way;  nor  will
it ever be if you do not allow yourself  to make
it one.  Remember, dear, in proportion as you
seek  the  comfort  of  your  husband, so  will he
strive to  make  your  life one  of  peace.  Many
wives  think  that  in  simply  performing house
hold duties  their  part  is  performed.  Humor
him!  That's it, my dear, humor him. If you
find Alec has any little peculiarity  of habit or
character, don't  first  think  of it  sulkily, then
grumble about it.  Love  him, and pet him, as
your mother loved and petted you.  There is a
spice of the mother in every true woman's love
for  her  husband.  On  the  other  hand,  don't 
begin  anything  you  can't  carry  out. Don't
do your  work and his chores, and call yourself
a devoted wife for it.  Devoted  fiddlesticks!
I've no  patience with women who carry water,
wood,  etc.;  yes,  even  chop  wood,  water  the
garden, do  all the  lifting, tugging  and tinker-
ing  around the house.  Alec will do anything
for you when  first  married;  never let him slip
out  of  the  habit  of  doing  your  little  chores.
If he  isn't  thoughtful  of  you  before you have
children, he never will be after.  Remember this.
And wo unto  you  when, with  baby  in arms,
and two or  three at your knee, you  drag your-
self around to do all and more than your share.
Be  thoughtful  of  your  husband,  and  if  he  is
not  so  of  you, teach  him  with  gentleness and 
kindness to perform  those  little  acts  of  home
courtesy  that  so  cheer  and  brighten  married
life.  Time to go home?  Well, come when you
can.  Will I tell  you  about how  to make the
fanccy trifles  I  have  here?  O  yes, some  day,
perhaps.   Goodby.
