WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

	It was in the spring of 1847 that Jesse
Burns and his family, consisting of a wife and
one child, started across the plains to the then
uninhabitated portion of the Rocky Moun-
tains known as the Great American Desert.
So much has been recorded of that remarkable
journey, that it is scarcely worth while to des-
cribe it. That it was an undertaking almost
unparalelled in history, can, I think, be safely
accorded. How many men left their work-
shops, their desks and counting houses, to
drive ox teams, who had never yoked a pair of
cattle in their lives? and the ludicrous mis-
takes made in their management were laugha-
ble or pitiable, as the case might be.
	Jesse was a mechanic, and knew little of
labors outside of his workshop, where he com-
manded first-class wages, providing comfort-
ably for his family. This breaking up of
home life and ties was a great blow to him, and
to his delicate wife, who had been tenderly
reared, and knew nothing of poverty or hard-
ship. Their nice little home, where they had
lived so happily, and which they had taken
such pleasure in building and adorning, was
sold for a trifle; their household furniture
went, here a little and there a little, until all
was disposed of: The outfit for their journey
was packed in the wagons, and they bade a
sorrowful farewell to their home, around which
clustered so many fond memories, and crossed
the Mississippi River, preparatory to organiz-
ing for the journey. After staying there a few
days Burns concluded, instead of waiting for
the main camp, to take his family and travel
down into Missouri, where he might find work
for the winter. Accordingly, in company with
another family, consisting of a man named
Chadwick, his wife and four children, he trav-
eled on untill they came to a creek called the
Fabby, forty miles from Nauvoo. After camp-
ing a few days, detained by the sickness of his
friend's wife, who had a little daughter born

[Column 2]
there, his wife, whose delicate frame was worn
with hardship and anxiety, was prostrated by a
lingering fever, which detained them six
weeks. Jesse, with the assistance of a woman
he had taken to assist his wife on the journey,
nursed them through the best he could; for,
although in a farming district, with people
living near by, no one offered to aid the poor
little band of sufferers.
	Minnie, their only child, was nine years old.
To her the journey, so fraught with pain and
sorrow to others, was something of a fairy
dream. The green fields and the noisy brook,
the trees where the nuts fell, for it was autumn
then, the saucy squirrels that perked their tails
over their backs, and watched them from their
leafy perches as they played among the trees,
were quite as careless of the future as them-
selves; the silvery fish that glided about in the
sparkling waters, and the birds that caroled in
the trees, were every day a new source of de-
light to those little thoughtless children, who
had spent all their lives within the limits of
a city.
	They were obliged to travel on as soon as
possible, for winter was coming on and no pro-
visions were being made for it. They moved
on slowly, stopping sometimes to rest the sick
ones, for the children had contracted fever and
ague while camping at the Fabby, and to do a
few days' work as opportunity offered.
	At length they reached St. Joseph, late in
the fall, where Jesse and his friend found work
through the winter. Soon after arriving there
the poor little baby, suffering from hardship
and exposure, sickened and died. In the spring
Jesse Burns and his family joined the camp at
Winter Quarters. Chadwick, having a larger
family and not being able to procure a suitable
ontfit, stayed at St. Joseph. Mary Burns was
an energetic and persevering woman, a patient
and devoted wife. Though feeble in body,
and ofttimes heartsick and weary, she proved
herself equal to every emergency. She left
her assistant at Winter Quarters, for they were
going to a distant country, they hardly yet
knew where, and could have no supplies except
what they carried with them, until such times
as crops could be raised; therefore they must
not be burdened with unnecessary expenses. 
Accordingly, a small boy was taken to assist
with the teams, and they started on. After
traveling a few hundred miles the boy grew
homesick, and meeting his brother going back
with the pioneers, he begged to go too. 
	Jesse thought it would throw too much hard-
ship on his wife to let the teamster go, as he
could only drive one team himself, and if the
boy went back she would be obliged to drive
the other; but she said, let him go; the team
was an anxiety to her anyway, as she conld
not trust him with it alone; she would manage
very well. During the rest of the journey she
drove the team, yoked and unyoked the oxen,
in addition to her culinary and family cares. 
This may seem an exaggeration, when it is
taken into consideration that she was a woman
of education and refinement, delicately reared,
and previous to her journey accustomed to
keep an assistant in her household labors, but
I can answer that it is no exaggeration, that
my narrative is strictly true. 
	The valley was at length reached, the jour-
ney over, and then came the struggle for the
necessaries of life. First, there must be shelter
made for the winter, and wood provided. There
being plenty of timber in the mountains, the
houses were built mostly of logs; but as the
weary cattle were hardly fit for such laborious
work, many built their cabins of adobies, or
sun-dried brick, after the Mexican or Califor-
nian style. The houses were covered with
poles and willows; over which was thrown dirt
to the depth of a foot or more; it was several
years before shingles were made for building
purposes. This rude covering served very well


except in hard storms, when the people were
deluged with muddy water. Dishes were set,
umbrellas spread, and every available means
used for protection, but many a merry joke
passed around when the weather cleared and
the bedding was spread out to dry.	Jesse
Burns, in company with another man, made a
saw pit and split logs, and sawed lumber for
others, and, as soon as he had sufficient mate-
rial, built himself a house; but owing to the
primitive manner of sawing, it was late in De-
cember before he had a shelter for his family.
The houses were all built in a fort, or a hollow
square, formed by joining the houses in lines.
Mary's cabin was built of sawed logs, and al-
though it had neither floor nor ceiling, she felt
that she was supremely blessed in having a shel-
ter from the cold storms of winter. It is said
that God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
They felt to realize the truth of this, for the
weather being unusually mild,the stock was en-
abled to live on the range; otherwise they must
have perished,for owing to their late arrival the
people could not possibly provide hay for the
winter. Men worked in the canons through
the winter, notwithstanding the severe storms
and hardships of a mountain climate caused
much suffering to those who were reared in a
milder country. For they came from the
sunny South, ns well as from the Granite hills
of New Hampshire, also from European coun-
tries, where many of them knew nothing of
outdoor labor.

To be Continued.


