THE ADDRESS.

	An address to Sister Phobe Brown Fife,
written by Sister Lucretia B. Farr in behalf
of the Relief Society of the Third Ward, pre-
vious to her departure to the Southern country.
Dear Sister—We, as a Relief Society, in a
weak way, wish to show our appreciation of
your great goodness as a member of our so-
ciety, as well as all other good qualities that
we realize you are endowed with. Words fail
to express the deep regret we feel in parting
with you; we would it were otherwise, but as
duty calls we must subscribe, trusting all
things are for good. We shall miss you in our
clrcle, for we know you have been an active
worker with us, never shrinking from any
duty called on to perform, kind to the poor,
ever ready to relieve the distressed, in sickness
and death none could excel. And as we now
realize that we must separate, we all, with one
accord, say, may God bless you, may peace be
with you, may his spirit ever be around you to
comfort you; if dark clouds surround you,
may He ever be with you to assist you, and
may poverty and want never stare you in the
face, but on the contrary, may plenty crown
your labors, and eventually may this sacrifice
prove a blessing to yourself, your companion,
your children, and all who are intimately con-
nected with you, and may we be consoled by
this one thought, that our loss may prove your
great gain; and although separated so many
miles away, may we not forget each other, our
our religion nor our God; and if we never
meet again on earth, may we so live that we
may meet in heaven, where parting is never
known, is the sincere wish of your sisters.

We meet in this lone vale of tears,
	But only meet to part;
Then why should friendship's sacred cord
	Entwine around the heart?

Say why should kindred souls ere meet,
	And not together dwell?
Why cast we but a transient gaze
	On those we love so well?

But yet we say, forget us not,
	Though here no longer seen;
Though forest tall, and prairies wide,
	And waters roll between.

Though few and fleeting are the hours
	Together we have known,
Yet still we say, remember us
	Before our Father's throne.

