LIFE.INCIDENTS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	I remember  the  circumstance  which my
father refers to, of my disobedience, or careless-
ness, and my deep repentance.  I was then but
a little child, and  this was almost the first sad
lesson  which  I  remember  of  learning  by  ex-
perience.  I was playing  under  the table, and
hardly  realized what  I  was  doing  until  the
leaf fell  with  the  dishes, when  I  was  horror-
stricken.  My  brother,  who  was  older  than
myself, solemnly, though  needlessly,  reminded
me  of  what  I  might  expect.    I had  been
taught  that  there  was  a higher  power, and I
went  and  cried  to  God  to  forgive me and to
soften my mother’s heart, that she  might  not
punish me; and that simple  prayer was heard
and  answered,  which  greatly  increased  my
faith in Him.
	I often think, could we  always be obedient,
or even willing to repent and humble ourselves
like  a  little  child, how much less  sorrow and
suffering. we would  have  in  this  life;  but how
prone we  are  to wander from  the  path which
is marked  out by a kind and  merciful Father.
“Experience is a hard, but a profitable school-
master.”
	I am often  reminded of some of my father’s
sayings and  comparisons which, he was  accus-
tomed to use  when preaching on  the  stand, or
in the  chimney corner to  his family or friends
who  might happen  to  be visiting  them.  The
following will no doubt sound familiar to many
more  beside  myself: “We are  all  sons  and
daughters  of God, and  He desires to save and
exalt us;  but He  has  a  rod prepared  for  the
disobedient and rebellious, and the farther we
go from  him  the more keenly we will feel the
lash, and  the  end  of it  will  cut  the  deepest;
but  the  nearer we are to Him, the less it will
hurt us.  And  for  this  reason I want to keep
up  as  near  to  Him  as possible.” Often  he
would turn to me with  a  sly twinkle and say.
“Here’s Helen, she had to  be  whipt into obe-
dience;” and  I  always  admitted  it, saying:
“Yes; whom  He loveth He chasteneth;” when
he would  burst  out  into  one  of  his peculiar
laughs.
	According to  my father’s record, the  14th
day of  February, 1835, was the day appointed
for  choosing  the Twelve  Apostles;  it  was  far
from his expectation  that he would  be  one of
the number.  He says:
	“Sunday morning,  April  5.  The  Twelve
had  not  all  as  yet  been  together, and  as the
time  drew near  that  we  should  travel  to the
East, we appointed this day to  bear  our  testi-
mony  unto  our  brethren  and  friends.  We
were all assembled together, with the exception
of Brother  Orson Pratt. who had not yet been
with  us.  At  the  time  we  were  praying and
wishing  for  his  arrival,  while  opening  the
meeting, he  entered the house, and we rejoiced
at  his  presence, and  thanked  the  Lord for it.
He  was  then  ordained, and  we  proceeded  to
speak  according to our ages.  This day  Broth-
ers Thomas B. Marsh, David W. Patten, Brig-
ham  Young  and  Heber  C.  Kimball  spoke.
Sunday,  12th, Brothers  Orson  Hyde, William
E.  McLellen,  Luke  Johnson  and  Parley  P.
Pratt spoke.	Sunday, 19th, Brothers William
Smith,  Orson  Pratt,  John  F.  Boynton  and
Lyman E. Johnson spoke, closing the testimony
of the Twelve  Apostles to the people in Kirt-
land at that time.  Sunday, 26th, we  received
our charge from Joseph Smith the Prophet.”
	The following is a sketch  of the first mission-
taken by  the  Twelve  Apostles.  My  father
says: “May 3d  we bade our brethren farewell,
and on the  morning of the 4th we started and
proceeded to  Fairport, where we  arrived pre-
cisely  at  six o’clock. A  boat  was  there, as
Brother  Joseph  had  predicted,  on  which  we
embarked for Dunkirk, where we arrived the
[second column]
same day,  at  four o’clock in  the  afternoon.
The next morning we got together and divided
off  two  by two.  Brother William  Smith  and
myself  went  to Casadagua, about twelve miles
from  Fredonia,  and  put  up  at  Harry More-
house’s. Held  two  meetings,  giving  them a
fair proclamation  of the Gospel and  the Book
of  Mormon,  and  there  was  no  opposition.
From thence  we went  to  Westfield, where we
met the remainder of our quorum, and on Sat-
urday, the 9th, we  met in Conference with the
Elders of this branch  of the Church, and also
those at the little branch at Savonia, who were
called upon by Thomas B. Marsh, our  presid-
ing  Elder, to  represent  to  us  the standing of
the brethren.  We  had  public  preaching  on
Sunday, and  continued  our  council  on  Mon-
day;  we  had  a  good  time, and thirteen were
baptized.  I  started  from  Westfield  on  Tues-
day, the 12th, in company with Elder John F.
Boynton, to  preach  our  way through  to  the
Freedan Conference.  We passed through Lodi
and  put  up  at  Brother Murdock’s; my  feet
were so  blistered  I  could  not wear my boots,
nor proceed without.
	“We arrived at Freedan,Cataraugus County,
and assembled on  the  22d  of  May in  Confer-
ence.  From hence I traveled in company with
Elder O. Hyde to  Pike Hollow, where resided
many  of  my wife’s relatives, appointed a meet-
ing  and  preached  twice,  baptized  three; and
the Lord was with us.  We then proceeded to
the town  of Mendon, the  place  of  my  former
residence; we  preached  twice, many  came  out
to hear.  On Monday we went  to Squire Rog-
ers’, where Elder Fulton, a Baptist priest, came
to  see  us, who treated  us very abruptly, deny-
ing the spirit  of  prophecy and the gifts  of the
Gospel; he  called  us  false  prophets,  and  re-
jecting  our  testimony  he  advised  us  to go
home.
	“We declared unto  him that  we should not
go  home,  but  should  go  forth  preaching the
Gospel, and  no  power should  stay us;  for the
Lord  had  committed  unto  us  a  dispensation,
and wo unto us  if  we preached not the Gospel
of Christ.  I told  him  if  he  did  not repent of
his sins, and be  baptized  for  the  remission of
them, he would  be  damned;  which  made him
mad.
	“We then passed on until we came to a pure
stream  of  water, and  there  cleansed  our  feet
bearing  testimony  against  him,  as  the Lord
commanded.
	June 6th  met  our  brethren,  the  Twelve
Apostles, in  Conference at Lyonstown, Wayne
County. It was my turn to preside, as we had
been  appointed  to  preside  according  to  our
ages, by the Prophet, and  the Lord blessed us.
	“June 8th I  started  with  Bro. Luke  John-
son  for  Pillow  Point, preaching  on  the  way.
In  the  town  of  Rose  we  were  cordially  re-
ceived, and bore  our  testimony to  the  people.
May the Lord  bless them!	In Hewton, about
twelve miles west  of  Oswego,  we  could find no
entertainment, but  were  rejected  from  twelve
houses;  the inmates were all Methodists.  May
the Lord reward them according to their works.
About twelve o’clock at night we put up at an
Inn, and retired  without any supper, as we had
only  one  shilling, just enough to pay our lodg-
ing.  The next morning we arose and traveled
six  miles  before  we  could  get  any  breakfast,
and  came to a magistrate by the name  of Els-
worth,  who  gave  out  an  appointment  for  a
meeting on Wednesday, at 6 p m.;  We had a
house  full.  Next  day  they  wanted  another
meeting, and we  preached again, and some be-
lieved.  When we left there  our host and  his
family bade us God speed, and gave us money;
and David Elsworth’s wife washed and mended
our clothes.	We could not have been treated
with  more kindness in  our father’s house;  we
blessed  them  in  the  name  of the  Lord,  and
went on  our way  rejoicing, whiie they wept at
[third column]
our departure.  About one year after this  the
whole family embraced the Gospel.
	"While at Sackett’s Harbor, I  received a
letter  from my wife informing me of  the birth
of  my  son  Heber  Parley,  on  the  occasion  of
which Brother P. P. Pratt composed a poem.
		To be Continued.


