COMMENDATION VERSUS CRITICISM.
			------------
	     BY HANNAH T. KING.
			----------
	Some persons object to  commendation, even
the briefest;  this must arise  not sufficiently
studying  the  human  character.  That  which
might be hurtful to  one person, is highly bene-
ficial and  encouraging to another;  some young
people make no progress  unless encouraged  by
judicious praise;  they are naturally so diffident
and  unaware  of  their  own worth and ability,
that they have  to  be  assured and  commended
into  attempting  anything above  mediocre;  all
judicious  praise  is  necessary to such  diseased
modesty, and will never injure, but inspire con-
fidence in themselves--without which  no  per-
son  can ever  shine  in  any department.  Self-
esteem  and  self-appreciation  every  one  ought
to understand and possess;  and  such  are  found
in  all  great  characters;  they  simply "know
themselves"--they have honestly read, weighed
and  measured  themselves,  and  their  past  at-
tainment is  a  guarantee of their future.  Cir-
cumstances,  of  course,  bring  out  different
phases  of  character,  but  every  individuality
has its  own bias, its  propelling power, its "bal-
ance wheel," that act as  a  lever to  accomplish
its wishes and designs, and  by long exercise at
last forms the mighty mind, the strong charac-
ter, the  indomitable will, the wonderful endur-
ance--in short, men and women in all the per-
fection that is  allowed  to  a  probation. Yes,
let us give the commendation that is due, let us
encourage each other, not  chill, and sneer, and
depress, till  all  energy and  ambition is wrung
out of a character, until every faculty becomes
neutral, and the original strength  and  beauty
is  marred,  or  perhaps destroyed.
	There are  characters who will  work  them-
selves  out  of  all  this  wonted  depression, but
they are the exception, the Titans of humanity.
The masse succumb and become warped by the 
cold and  injudicious  treatment they receive in
their youthful training.  Teachers need  teach-
ing very often;  for indeed, teaching  the young
mind  is  a  mighty science, and  very  few  are
equal to  the task.  Hence, we  often  see  self-
educated  men  and women  the peeres of  those
who have  spent their youth  in  seminaries  and
colleges.  Their  learning  is  all  derived from
books, whereas the other  is aquired by actual
experience, and such knowledge is power.
	Now, a  few  words  on  criticism.  If  it  re-
quires  a  delicate  tact  to  praise  well  at  the
proper  time  and  season, it most  assuredly re-
quires  a  Johnsonian  understanding,  discrimi-
nation  and  comprehension  to  criticise  justly.
The  critics  of  the  day  are, in  general, a con-
temptible genus;  they pander to  a  clique  that
pays  well--probably  have  no  other ability.
An honest  author  has  little  mercy  at their
hands, or a chance of being justly weighed and
measured;  they  ignore  truth, and  exalt  and
eulogize twaddle.  Just  censure  and  criticism
are  needed  by  all writers, and when bestowed
by a wise and  judicious censor  and  mentor, is
purifying  and  exalting;  and,  thank  Heaven!
there are such upon the earth at all times; but
they are  the  exceptions.  A  critic  should be,
first, a scholar of large heart and broad brain--
nothing narrow, or cynical;  well read;  not sec-
tarian, but  entirely cosmopolitan;  with  a clear
judgment  of  what is correct, and  what  is not,
never looking  through  green  or  blue  specta-
cles;  no  prejudice  must  exist--justice  must
hold her balance even in the counsel of which
she  should  always be  one;  he  should  have a
keen insight  into  character and all its indica-
tions;  never  judge all  by one  common  stand-
ard, certainly  not!  but  comprehend  "the  very
age  and body of the  times, its  form and pres-
sure," and its bearings, upon character, etc., etc.;
especially the etceteras!
	In every-day  associations we  hear ourselves
criticised;  the  very  praise  of  some  people is
annoying, and their  censure amounts  to a bur-
lesque!  Whether from  spleen  or  ignorance  is
not quite visible, but they will  name  some  in-
ferior  thing  that  your  pen dashed off without
scarcely the knowledge of your brain, exclaim-
ing decidedly, and  with a sinister  look  of the
eye:  "The best thing you ever wrote!"  All, or
nearly all, sweeping assertions are false;  and a
person who looks  at  their  words  before  they
speak never make them.  A real  lady or  gen-
tlemen  never  make  such  assertions,  for  in
mixed companies they are  sometimes  very of-
fensive, and show great want  of tact, to speak
in  the  mildest  form.  Those who  do  it in ig-
norance, or  merely as an  echo, must  be  par-
doned,  as  we  pardon  unthinking  children
whose  language  is  that  of  the  parrot. But
men and women  of  heart, and  brain, and ex-
perience, that by such have built  up a character,
should  not  talk  nonsense  on  matters  where
good  sense, judicious  praise,  or  kind and wise
censured only should be exercised.
	Let us  all go  into  school for  a  short time,
and there learn lessons that will improve us in
many ways.  Let  us  there  learn  the  art of
praising judiciously, and  censuring  wisely and
justly, that our criticisms may carry with them
a healing balm, that, if true, may do us good,
and, if unjust, will even then be received with
equanimity.


