THE NEW TREATMENT FOR CANCER.

	THE London medical journal called the Lan-
cet, an authority amongst the professions, pub-
lishes a paper by Professor John Clay,of Queen's
College, on a new method of treating that ter-
rible disease, cancer, which has carried off so
many victims even under the most skillful
treatment.
	Professor Clay's treatment dispenses entirely
with the use of the knife. Perhaps this state-
ment will provoke a smile from surgeons of the
old school of practice, as they generally look up-
on those who pretend to the discovery of nost-
rums for the cure of cancer by drugs and plasters,
as quacks and impostors. But they may change
their minds after hearing what is certified to by
a professor of obstetrics in an English hospital,
and published in so respectable a paper as the
Lancet.
	The new remedy is Chian (or Cyprus) turpen-
tine, administered internally, the maximum
dose being twenty-five grains daily. Ordinary


turpentine, or Venice or Strasburg turpentine,
will not answer the purpose. Dr. Clay uses it
in combination with sulphur, as he found by re-
peated and varied experiments with other sub-
stances that the Chian turpentine acted with
uniform benefit in this combination.
	He describes as follows the first case in which,
after long study of the subject, he attempted the
use of the new remedy, on a woman who was
taken to the hospital afflicted with cirrhous can-
cer of the cervix and body of the uterus.
	"Hemorrhage was excessive, pain of the back
and abdomen agonizing, and cancerous cachexia-
well marked. The patient evedently had not a
long time to live. In such a case it appeared to
be justifiable to attempt to relieve the sufferings
of the patient, even if the remedy should produce
unfavorable symptoms, or should prove of no
avail. I therefore prescribed Chian terpentine,
six grains; flowers of sulphur, four grains; to be
made in two pills, to be taken every four hours.
No opiates were prescribed or lotion used. No
change was to be made in her diet or occupation.
On the fourth day after taking the medicine, the
patient reported herself greatly relieved from
pain, and was in better spirits, but she com-
plained of a large amount of discharge. It was
feared that she referred to a discharge of a san-
gineous nature. On examination, however, the
vagina was found to be filled with dirty-white
secretion, so tenacious as to be capable of being
pulled out rope-like, and this although she had
syringed herself three hours previously."
	After continuing the medicine 12 weeks with
excellent effects, the patient suddenly went
away without leaving any particulars by which
the final result could be learned. In his next
case—a woman 31 years of age—the cancer was
entirely removed in about five weeks. Several
other cases are reported of the complete cure of
cancers in different parts of the body. In some
instances the turpentine in the form of pills
could not be disgested, and the manager of the
hospital dispensary prepared:
	"An ethereal solution of Chian turpentine by
dissolving 1 oz. of the turpentine in 2 oz. of pure
sulphuric ether (anaesthetic). The ether dis-
solved the turpentine instantly. Of this solutoin,
½ oz ; solution of tragacanth, 4 oz.: syrup, 1 oz.;
flowers of sulphur,.40 grains; water to 16 oz.; 1
oz. three times daily."
	The following remarks of Dr. Clay will explain
his theory of the action of the turpentine in dis-
solving the tumor, and giving permanent relief
in a disease considered by many to be incurable.
	"The turpentine appears to act upon the per-
iphery of the growth with great vigor, causing
the speedy disappearance of what is usualy
termed the cancerous infiltration, and thereby
arresting the further development of the tumor.
It produces equally efficient results on the whole
mass, seemingly destroying its vitality,but more
slowly. It appears to disolve all the cancer cells,
leaving the vessel to become subsequently atro-
phied, and the firmer structure to gradually gain
a comparatively normal condition.
	It is a most efficient anodyne, causing an en-
tire cessation of pain in a few days, and far
more effectually than any sedative that I have
ever given. In the cases I have described no
sedative was employed in any instance, although
some cases where great pain had existed previ-
ously to commencing the treatment, large doses
had been given. Whether this arrest of pain
arises from the death of the tumor, or, as my
son suggests, is due to there being no longer ir-
ritati[-]n of the sentient nerves (in consequence of
tension being withdrawn by the removal of the
cells), the fact is the same."
	The discoverer of this method of assuaging
pain and eradicating either of the many ills that
flesh is heir to, and who makes his knowledge
known, is a public benefactor, worthy of public
reward.—Deseret News.


