TO THE SPIRIT OF POESY.
Say, where hast thou wandered, sweet spirit?
	I've missed thee for ever so long;
Thine absence and frown did I merit
	That I've waited in vain for they song?
Did I wrong thee when, leaning beside me,
	I slighted thy voice in mine ear?
Did I grieve thee in that I denied thee
	My homage when last thou wert near!

Nay! take it not so, for thou knowest
	In my heart there is none like to thee,
That I'm doubly alone when thou goest,
	Withdrawing they pleasure from me.
Tis pity enough to be weary
	With duties that crowed the day;
Think how lonely the evening, and dreary,
	When I find thou hast flitted away!

Through each homely and  practical duty
	Thou knowest  impatient I haste,
To spend in the spell of they beauty
	The moments too precious to waste.
Ah, surely thou wilt not forsake me!
	Mine eyelids are weary for sleep;
If I rest me awhile wilt thou wake me,
	Thy visit and promise to keep?

Forget not how happy we've wandered
	Through scenes still to memory dear;
How thy whispers  of  hope  have I pondered,
	'Till their soothing has banished the tear.
And how shall I go on without thee?
	No scene, be it ever so rare,
But I'd miss thy sweet presence about me,
	Thy rapture and praises to share.

Nay, thou hast not  gone altogether-
	For hast thou not vowed, dearest friend,
Whatever the way or the weather,
	To keep by my side to the end?
I can but believe thou art near me,
	My trial to witness and test;
I entreat thee, again let me hear thee,
	I'll honor they slightest request.

Still silent?  I know now thou'rt hiding;
	'Twas thy presence I felt I am  sure.
Ah,  well;  if I merit thy chiding,
	Thy sternest I'll patient endure.
No answer?  Perhaps  'tis to tease me;
	'Twould relieve thee to chide me, if vexed;
I'd rather do penance, if it please thee,
	Than linger so sorely perplexed.
Let me sing!  perhaps music may move thee
	Of thy humor capricious to tire;
Thy favorite song soon shalt prove thee-
	Ah! where hast  thou  hidden my lyre?
No hand but thine own can have taken
	The harp that thou  gavest to me:
No other its music can waken,
	Unless they have helper in thee.

Return me thy gift, gentle spirit,
	No longer in  silence to bear,
But to use, and that they who shall hear it,
	Its heavenly worth may declare.
And leave me no more, I implore thee;
	Sing with me and teach me to sing,
Till the hearts  of the hearers before thee
	Their tributes  of homage shall bring.
			Augusta Joyce Crocheron
November 4, 1880.


