MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL:

	Dear Sister—We have arrived at my sisters
here in old Lancaster Co.; I will now try to fulfil

[Column 2]
my promise to you. We are well, and have had
a pleasant trip, most of the time we have had
good weather, we have not met with any acci-
dent, for which we feel to thank our Heavenly
Father. We went over to Southern Kansas to
see the Bishop's brother, Mr. James Weiler; we
had a good visit and had the pleasure of seeing
that beautiful country. If it would rain, so that
the people could raise their crops, Kingman
County would soon be filled with settlers; but
the crops have failed for two years, and the
farmers are becoming discouraged. While visit-
ing in Kingman, we met with a Presbyterian
minister's wife, who appeared very anxious to
learn something about our faith and doctrines.
We lost no time, but made the best use of every
moment trying to tell her the truth. She had
read Ann Eliza's book, and wanted to know of
me what kind of a woman she was, and of course
I told her the truth as far as I knew, and I be-
lieve it had a very good impression. We left
one of Brother Morgan's pamphlets with her.
Ann Eliza's book is in a great many places
where we have been, and people read it, and
there is nothing within reach to contradict her
statements. We have had that book to fight all
the way through. I met with a blind woman
in Congress, Ohio, that was a young girl when I
was a girl. I had not seen her before since I
joined the Church. She told me that she had
never heard one word spoken in favor of the
Mormon people until that day. In other places
where we have been they are so wrapt up in
their minister and possessions, that I cannot see,
when they do not have time nor a desire to hear
the truth, how any one is to blame if they do
not hear it when they have an opportunity. I
heard a Methodist minister say a man may be a
saved man and not know it; he talked about the
kingdom of God in their hearts. It seemed to
me almost impossible that intelligent people
could sit and spend their time listening to such
nonsense. Take the mass of the people that we
have conversed with, they do not seem to under-
stand what they are in this world for, only to
eat and drink, and work and get rich. The la-
dies inquire of me how the ladies do in polyga-
my; one lady asked me, "When a man has
three or four wives, if one of them should die,
would the others go to the funeral?" All such
foolish questions, at least they seem foolish to
me; indeed, the blindness of this generation on
things pertaining to our future existence, has
never appeared to me so plain as it has on
this trip.
	Our friends have all been glad to see us come,
and seem sorry to have us go away. The Bishop
has talked and borne a faithful testimony to his
brothers and sisters; what good it will do re-
mains to be seen in the future.
	This has been a year of plenty in Indiana,
Ohio and Pennsylvania. As a general thing
they have raised good crops, and there has been
plenty of all kinds of fruit. As we traveled
through Ohio, everything did look beautiful; the
trees in the woods had been touched with frost,
and the leaves were every tint and hue. How I
did enjoy looking at the beauties of nature. I
have always enjoyed this beautiful world, but I
had not seen the woods at this season of the
year for so many years, that I enjoyed it very
much.
	I see by the papers that our folks have sent us,
that you had a splended Conference; I know the
Saints enjoyed it very much. If any one wants
to know how to appreciate the society of the
Saints in Utah let them take a trip of two or
three months off amongst their outside friends.
	I must tell you how politics are going on,
the political party strife is increasing every day.
I was at a Democratic meeting in Rousburg,
Ohio; the speakers talked about the Republican
party and Garfield and pictured things out in
such a light that a disinterested person would
set them all down as black legs and scoundrels;
then I was at a Republican meeting where they
out did the Democrats in slang and low mean
language, the whole thing is pointing towards a
war. I told one gentleman that I talked with,
my opinion was they might possibly have blood-
shed before they got through. He said he was
very much afraid of that; he seemed to feel quite
bad about the matter. The ladies think (a great
many of them) that they ought to be allowed to
vote, many of them are in favor of the Prohibi-
tion Candidates, others think if they were per-
mited to vote they would pull one anothers hair
at the polls, and that would make matters
worse. I told them they were not as good
women then as we were in Utah: for we go to
vote and go home again and never have any
trouble over it.
