UTAH  AND  HER  DELEGATE TO CON-
			GRESS.
			----------
	Hon. George Q. Cannon left this city Tuesday
morning, Nov. 30,  for  Washington, D.C., that
he might arrive in the Capital and be present at
the opening  of  the  session  of  Congress, which
event will transpire Monday, Dec. 6.  President
Cannon  has been duly elected, and  is  undoubt-
edly the choice  of  the people, for  delegate from
Utah, and  really represents the true  interests of 
all  citizens  of  this  Territory.  Women as well
as men  have  had a voice  in  his  election, not-
withstanding  the  efforts  made to hinder them,
and have cast their votes for him.  Bro. Cannon
is well  acquainted with the needs of the  people
who reside here, and has  ever  acted  honorably
and wisely  in behalf  of  each  and  all, that  they
might enjoy and exercise the privileges to which
loyal  citizens are entitlted. The  spirit and feel-
ing of  the outside party who have come and set-
tled in  Utah,  and  their  manner  towards the
"Mormon" people is such  that those who would
maintain their rights and privileges are legitimate
proprietors of the country they have  sought out
and  made  desirable,  are  compelled to  act upon
the defensive, which  is  always  disagreeable to
those who are lovers of peace and good order.
	Many threats  have  been  made  in  regard to
the future action of the government with respect
to Utah  and  the "Mormon" people, but judging
from  the wonderful mainfestations of the power
of God  in  the  past,  in  the  protection  of  his
Saints, we  can  but  feel  hopeful  for the future.
Whatever dark  clouds  seem  now impending,
will be  scattered and blown away, and a bright
and  smiling  sky will  illuminate  the  transient
cloudiness  of  the  atmosphere,  and  all  will  be
well; Utah will  become a flourishing  and pros-
perous Territory,  and  the  eyes  of  the  great
American  nation will  look  with  astonishment
upon  the  wonderful  success  that  is  but  just
dawning behind the dusky horizon.  The Saints
have  nothing  to  fear, for  all  things will work
together for their good.  Like Daniel the prophet,
their trust is in God and none  else.  Men  may
revile  and  persecute, and women too, but  they
cannot  stay  the  hand of the Lord, which has
been set in the last days to gather out and re-
deem a people, who will hearken and obey the
voice of the Good Shepherd.
	Pres. Cannon goes to his labors in the halls of
Congress with the faith, the confidence and the
united prayers of this people. He is strengthe-
ened on every hand by  unseen  forces.  There
are thousands of fervent  petitions  offered  up to
heaven in his behalf, in  the homes and sanctua-
ries of  the  Saints.  The  little children; in their
simple, earnest  faith, pray  for  his  success, and
God  hears  the  prayers  of  the  pure, innocent
children.
	With all the  other  qualifications  for successwith which  Pres. Cannon  is  endowed, he  is a
strong advocate for equal  political privileges and
justice for woman in all the various departments
and  vocations of life.  This fact endears him to
the  hearts of  thousands who  are anxiously look-
ing forward with  hopefulness to the  time when
woman may at least vote and have a voice in all
questions that concern her "life, liberty and the 
pursuit  of  happiness."  Success  to  Delegate
Cannon.  We wish  him a prosperous journey, a
safe  arrival, and may he be  able to  transact all
business pertaining  to the interests  of the  Terri-
tory to his complete satisfaction, and that of his
constituents.
	There is a glorious future for Utah and although
it is  considered a  very  insignificant  position to
represent this Territory in the august national as-
semblies, who knows, but the least may yet be the
greatest in strength and power?  There are many
reasons why Utah is  likely  to  become popular.
The serious questions of social life that are agitat-
ing the mind of  men  and  women  of thought
and reflection  are  being  practically dealt  with
here, and women of ability  and intelligence are
taking an active part in the drama which is now
an enigma and puzzle, but which will eventually
resolve itself into a key  to unravel  some  of  the
intricate  problems of human  life which  are per-
plexing in the minds and  absorbing  the  interests
of scientists and philanthropsits. Marvel not at
the  assertion. Is it more  unlikely  than  that
the whole world  is  becoming  more or less con-
vinced that his continent  was  once  inhabited
by  a civilized and  enlightened  race  who  were
highly  cultivated  in the arts  and  sciences but
dwindled away and the land left  desolate.  And
yet  when  Joseph  Smith  by  revelation  and
through the power of God proclaimed these facts
backed  up  by  the  testimony  of  the  veritable
records of that identical race of people, the idea
was hooted at and its advocates held  up to ridi-
cule and  scorn  even  persecutions  heaped
upon them in consequence.
	We may be and  perhaps  are digressing  from
the subject, but nevertheless Utah has a promis-
ing future of which her people  yet will be justly
proud,  and she may shine anon, with brilliancy
in the magnificant galaxy of the States.


