HOME AFFAIRS. 	
				---------
	WE see by the local  papers that Mrs. Hannah
T.  Cornaby of Spanish  Fork,  well  known  as a
writer of  verse, is about to publish her poems.

	PRESIDENTS and officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
wishing  to  obtain  instruction in regard to mat-
ters which pertain to these Associations from the
President of  the  Central organization, should
address Mrs. E. S. Taylors, Post  Office  Box  629,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

	THE Secretaries of the several branches of the 
Y. L. M. I. A.  in  this  Stake  of  Zion, are  re-
quested  to forward full statistical and financial
reports from  the  date  of their  organization to
October 6. 1880, to  Mrs. Augusta  Joyce  Croch-
eron, Box  419, S. L. City, that  she  may furnish
a  complete  and  accurate  Stake  report for the
central organization.
 WE have  on  hand reports from several meet-
ings,  and  also  minutes  of  the  organization of
branches of the  Primary Associations, and a re-
port of a Relief Society, organized at Bluff  City,
San Juan, all of  which we shall  publish as soon
as practicable.

	NOTICE: The Secretaries  of  the  Primary  As-
sociations  of  Salt  Lake  Stake,  are  requested to
send  in  their  reports,  before  the  17th, for the 
Semi-Annual Conference.  Address: Mrs. Ellen
Clawson, care of H. B. Clawson, Salt Lake City.
			MRS. VILATE  YOUNG, Secretary.

	THE Conference  of  the  Relief Societies,  Y
L. M. I. A. and  Primary  Associations  of Salt
Lake Stake,  will  be  held  in  the  Fourteenth
Ward  Assembly  Rooms, Friday and Saturday,
the 17th and 18th insts.  Secretaries of these or-
ganizations will  please  take  notice and send in
reports  at  as  early  a  date  as  possible.  It is
hoped each branch of the several Societies in the
country, will  have  a  representative, as  this is
the Annual Meeting of the  Relief Societies.

	WE had  the pleasure  of  attending the Quar-
terly Conference  of the Relief Societies of Utah
County, which was held Friday, Nov. 27, in the 
Provo  Meeting  House,  Counselor  Mary John
presiding. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary of  
presiding board,  and  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Howard,
Secretary  of Salt  Lake  Stake  R. S., were both
present. The reports  of  the presidents were ex-
cellent, and  the  sisters from  Salt Lake each in
turn addressed the meeting.  Mrs. Mary John,
Mrs. Lucy W.  Kimball,  and  Bishop  Johnson
also made very suitable remarks.

	SISTER E. R. Snow  Smith,  President  of all
the organizations  of  Relief  Societies,  and  her
Counselor, Zina D. Young, are at present in St.
George. They arrived  there  on the  evening of
November 19, after having  organized a Primary
Association at Washington  the  same  day. On
the following Tuesday, Nov. 23, they  expected
to re-organize the Y. L. M. I. A. at Washington;
Wednesday to  organize the  children's Primary
in the  Fourth  Ward, St. George, and  Thursday
to  meet  with  the  Relief Society in the  Third
Ward  St. George.  On  the  journey down these
sisters visited  Scipio, Holden, Fillmore, Meadow
City, Kanosh, Beaver and  Parowan; at each of
these places held meetings with the sisteres, and
in some places organized Primary Associations.

	ON Tuesday, Nov. 23,  the  Primary  Associa-
tion  of  South  Cottonwood  held  their  annual
meeting,  and  celebrated  the  occasion  with  a
party and a fair, or bazar, of the children's own
work.  Various useful  and  ornamental  articles
were  on  exhibition.  Some  of them were very
neat, and even elegant, and  all were creditable.
Among the  most  noticeable things  in  the  fair
was a large  wreath  of  flowers  made  of kernels
of  corn,  beans,  wheat,  rice,  &c.,  arranged to
represent  different kinds  of  flowers,  and then
varnished. The first  impression  on  looking  at
the wreath  is that it is made of shells, so closely
do the flowers resemeble shell  work  that we
see so much of--It was made  by a Miss.  A boy
of 16 years of age  exhibited a  number  of  speci-
mens  in  scroll-work  consisting  of brackets,
towel-rack, picture-frames  &c. Wool-flowers,
mottoes, card-receivers, tidies,  quilts, hair-work,
small  wooden  harrows  and  rakes  and also a
miniature pair of doubtetrees, all made by little
children.  Mrs.  Martha  G.  Young,  the  Presi-
dent of the Association has  been  specially ener-
getic and remarkablly patient, and perservering.
She certainly has done well and we must  add
excelled  Her example is  worthy of  imitation
by others engaged in the same  interests.  Sev-
rel ladies from the city were  invited  to  attend
the  meeting  and  entertainment  but  circum-
stances prevented any of them attending except
Sister Ellen C. S. Clawson,  who  addressed  the
children in a happy and instructive manner.  A
good  spirit  pervaded  the,  assembly.  Bishop
Rawlins and Elder Wm. G. Young were present
and many of the parents  of  the chlidren, and
visitors from other wards.

	THE circular published below  explains itself,
and therefore needs no particular comment; but
as a friend of the author, we are placed that she
has  decided  to  publish her poems in book form.
They will  be  one  more  interesting addition to
the home  libraries of the young people, Mor-


mon  history  and  Mormon  poetry  will  yet  be
sought after by the outside world.  It will  pos-
sess  originality and  contain  truth—two recom-
mendations.  There are no people anywhere who
have more subject and  material for  poetry than
the  Latter-day  Saints.   There  are  not  books
enough published;  the  people need a greater va-
riety.   Then by all means let us encourage these
home enterprises.
