PROVO NOV. 8, 1880.
	The Conference for the Y. M., and Y. L. M.
I. Associations  of  the   First  District of  Utah
Stake was held at Payson,Saturday,October 30,
1880.
	President M. H. Hardy, Sister  Helen  Alex-
ander,  their  Counselors  and  Stake Secretary
were  present.   A  business   meeting  for   the
officers was called  at 2 p.  m.   Satisfactory re-
ports were  given  in  from  Payson, Santaquin,

[Column 2]
Goshen, Salem,  Benjamin  and Spring  Lake,
these settlements  forming  that  District.   Bro.
Hardy referred them to the  instructions  given
by Brother  Woodruff at the last Conference re-
specting  the  Improvement   Associations,  he
also   presented   a   suggestive    programme
for   the   consideration  and   adoption   of  the
Societies throughout the  Stake, that they may
all work uniformily.
	The December number of the "Contributor"
will contain the programme  in full.
	Miss Alexander encouraged the adoption  of 
the instructions given by  Brother Hardy; as far
as practicable among the  Young Ladies.
	At a general  meeting  held  in  the  evening,
short and appropriate  addresses were delivered
by Brother A. O. Smoot Jr. and G. M. Brown,
also Sisters Alexander and Williams.
	The Spirit of  God burned  in  the  bosom  of
each individual present  and  illuminated  their 
faces.  They all  departed  with a  renewed de-
termination  to  engage  more  earnestly in  the
work  of  Improvement  amongst  the  youth  of
Zion.  
	TEENIE SMOOT,  Stake Sec'y.

	Synopsis of The Eighth Quarterly Conference
Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion  held  in
Provo Meeting House;  August 27th 1880,
	Present on the stand  President Margaret T.
Smoot  and  Counselor  Mary  John,  Secretary
and  Corresponding  Secretary;  also  President
A.   O.  Smoot,   Bishops Paxman,   Tanner  and
Johnson.   Meeting opened  by  the usual  exer-
cises.  Minutes  of  former  meeting  read  and 
accepted.   Reports  of  the  county  read,  also
the Primary reports.
	The Presidents of the different societies gave
verbal  reports of the  same, speaking in praise
of the  obedience and good  works of  those with
whom they were associated.   Sister  John coun-
seled the  sisters  in  regard  to   attending  their 
meetings for by so so doing  we will learn prin-
ciples to instil  into the  hearts of  our  children
etc.   Brother Tanner  said it was a satisfaction
to listen to the reports and see the interest that
is  taken  by the sisters  in  helping  the  poor.
Spoke of the propriety of always having a fund
on hand to help the poor etc.
	Afternoon  Session:  Opened  by  singing and
prayer;   Sister  Margaret  T.  Smoot  made  a
few remarks relative  to our position  and  pros-
pects;  said she  was  pleased  with  our  reports
would not say much as Sister Zina was with us
and we would like to hear from her.
	Sister Zina [--]id, I  hope  I  may  be  dictated
by the spirit  that  feeds  and  invigorates.  We
have started for  eternal  life.  Brother Joseph
said, the priesthood  would never be in  its full-
ness  without  this organization  of  the  sisters.
We  have  come  here   to-day to   feast on  the
word of God, let us be united we cannot divide
temporal and spiritual interests.   The Gentiles
fear our union more  than  any  thing else.  Let
us teach our children to  be  industrious;  bring
them up to industrious habits and  let us attend
to our political interests before  the  enemy gets
the upper  hand  of  us, as  they  have  done  in
some places.  We   have  only a  few  days to
work in and if we are faithful we are saved be-
ings.   Teach  your  daughters  that  it  is  the
noblest thing in this world  to bear the souls of
men.   This  kingdom is upward  and  onward.
This is the work of the Saints to help the Lord
to build  up the kingdom.  Some   of our sisters
who have a taste for it, should understand phy-
siology and  surgery a woman  is  more fit  in
many cases  to  attend  those  who  are  in  need
of a physician  for  such  work than   a   man.
There is plenty of work in the kingdom for all
and I am proud to be associated with the hand-
maidens of the  Lord.   May  the  Lord   enable
us to so live that we may gain eternal life.
	President  Smoot spoke  in  words  of  praise
and  encouragement  to the  sisters, said  what

[Column 3]
Sister Zina has said  covers  a  vast  amount of 
ground as much  perhaps  as is  needed for  you
to-day, there  is a  great  responsibility  resting
upon  you  as well  as   the  men;  the  training
and planting in the human mind the principles
of eternal life  and  every  virtue.   Some  think
we have too many organizations, I do not think
so.   I think  the sisters  as a  rule are more ob-
servant of their organizations than the men—I
enjoyed my visit  very much to  the  Sandwich
Islands,  they  are  a  good  people  there.   The
sisters of the  Relief  Society  gave  me  a  feast
before I left and sent love to all   the  sisters  of
the Relief Societies in  the  valley.   May   God
bless and  prosper  you  that  through  you  the
work of the kingdom may be promoted.
	Bro. Paxman made some very good remarks
spoke of  the  braiding  school that  he  visited
when on his mission where  little children from
4 to 8 years of age  were  braiding straw;  some
braiding as  high  as  twenty  yards  a  day;  ex-
horted the  sisters  to give   our children some
trade and teach them to be industrious  Sisters
let us be encouraged there is a  bright prospect
ahead, God will give the  kingdom  to us  pro-
vided we are faithful, the Spirit of God is with
us here to-day.
	Sister John said it has  been thought  best to
appoint a president for a Stake organization for
the  Primary  Association,  accordingly  Sister
Zina  Y.  Williams  was  chosen  for  that  office;
Sisters Nancy Smoot and  Mary  J. John  were
chosen as her Counselors.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams  said,  if the  Priest-
hood think I am capable of filling that place,I
will try by the help of God to do so.
	Sister Zina D. Young hoped  the time would
come when we should  have the  spirit of  testi-
mony.   Moved we  adjourned  this  meeting for
three months.
	Benediction by,   Bro. Paxman.
	The  Statistical and Financial reports  are as
follows:
	Number  of  members, 2005;  teachers,  314;
meetings  held  110:  average attendance  629;
church  papers  taken  314;  WOMAN'S  EXPON-
ENT,  104;
	Total receipts    $501,97;  total  disburements,
391,53;  to needy  331, 44;  temple 26,40;  build-
ings, 112,65;  home  industries 23,25: missionary
41,05;  books, 7,25;  silk 4,00;  sundry  disburse-
ments,15,45;  cash  on hand 195,55;  property on
hand $5,864,07;  wheat on hand 673, bush.
