THE BOOK OF MORMON.

	The Book of Mormon is a history of the
former inhabitants of this continent, and from it
we learn that the Lord has brought people three
distinct times to live upon it, the first was the
Jaredites, they came from the Tower of Babel,
then the people of Lehi, who left Jerusalem in
the commencement of the first year of the reign
of Zedekiah King of Judah, afterwards the peo-
ple of Zarahemla came from Jerusalem, at the
time that Zedekiah King of Judah was carried
away captive into Babylon. They were discov-
ered by a company of Nephites, they united and
Mosiah was afterwards their King.
	The Book of Mormon contains enough evi-
dence within its own pages to satisfy any one of
its divine authority, many prophecies which it
contains have been fulfilled, while many remain
to be yet fulfilled. On page 234; we find that if
the Nephites rebelled against God they would be
destroyed from off the face of the earth, which
they eventually were. In the second Book of
Nephi we have a prophecy of Joseph, the son of
Jacob who was carried into Egypt. He said
that the seer that the Lord would raise up, should
bring forth the word of the Lord, meaning the
Book of Mormon, unto his seed, that is the Lam-
anites, that his name should be Joseph, and
that it should also be the name of his father, the
"word" was brought forth by Joseph Smith Jun.
In the Book of Alma we read that the plates
should be presented by the hand of the Lord,
until they should go forth unto every nation, the
Book of Mormon was translated from a part of
those plates, and more is to be revealed in due
time.
	Nephi the son of Lehi knew that the Messiah
would visit the Jews in Jerusalem in 600 years
after he Nephi had left Jeursalem, also that he
would visit the people on this continent which
visit is recorded as having taken place at the ap-
pointed time among the Nephites. In the New
Testament we read that Jesus told his disciples
that he had other sheep he would visit. Also
the new star that should appear on this contin-
ent and the night which should be as light as
day, as a sign that he came into the world was
fulfilled, having been prophesied of many years
before. Nephi says, "It shall come to pass that
the Lord will bring forth unto you the words of
a book; and they shall be the words of them
which have slumbered, the book shall be deliv-
ered to a man and he shall deliver the words to
another also it shall be hid from eyes of the
world, save three witnesses, the one to whom it
should be delivered, and a few according to the
will of God, those who are conversant with the
coming forth of the Book of Mormon will readily
see the truth of these predictions, also of showing
a copy of the characters to Prof. Anthon which
has been written about by I, believe; Elder Orson
Pratt. Nephi saw in a vision that Jesus should
be baptized beyond Jordan and also a prophet
that should prepare the way before him, mean-
ing John the Baptist, he beheld the sick healed
by him, and that the Messiah should be lifted
up on a cross. All this Nephi saw over 600 years
before it came to pass, also that the Lamanites
would become a dark and loathsome people.
	A volume might be written of prophecy ful-
filled and much is written that pertains to the
future which we may consistently infer will be
also, for it is as much an inspired work as the
Bible with the advantage of being translated
correctly.
							ANN FELLOWS.
	First Ward, Ggden City.


