[Vol9 | March 1922 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman LEADERSHIP WEEK AT THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Leadership Week at the B. Y. U., January 23 to 27 inclusive, was most interesting and inspiring throughout. The attendance was remarkable, there being registered during the week between 1600 and 1800 stake and local leaders, from the adjacent stakes and wards. This gratifying response to the opportunity extended by the University, gives evidence of the desire on the part of stake and local Church workers, to raise the standard of the work of their organizations, and it also shows an earnest desire for spiritual and educational uplift. Such a feast of good things was offered that one was almost bewildered at the outset. There were general sessions where topics of interest to all were discussed by some of our ablest speakers; there were regular department meetings or classes where specialized instruction was given, under direction of the college professors; and there were delightful social entertainments, consisting of get-acquainted parties, musicals, theatricals, pageants and band concerts. Each day a delicious luncheon was served in the cafeteria, where most of the service was given voluntarily by the charming young women of the institution. The distinctive feature of Leadership Week was the spirited and faith-promoting address by President Heber J. Grant on Wednesday the 25, in College Hall. For over an hour the vast audience listened to him in breathless silence. His earnestness, sincerity, and convincing testimony, touched and thrilled the hearts of all wtho heard him, and they went away strengthened in determination, in faith, and in testimony. Many who came for this special occasion were unfortunate in not being able to secure seats or even standing room in College Hall, and it was necessary to arrange for an overflow meeting which was held in ~ the Library. There were nineteen departments in all, including a department for each of the Auxiliary Organizations of the Church. They were as follows: Priesthood, Relief Society, Sunday School, M. I. A., Primary, Religion Class, Teacher Training: Pre-Adolescent Section, Adolescent Section, Adult Section; Genealogy, ~ Social and Recreational Leadership, Scout Leaders, Bee Hive Leaders, Home Making, Public Speaking, Business Administration, Missionary Course, Pageantry, Health Work, Music, Pre- NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Lei siding Officers. In the meetings of the auxiliary groups tlic regular work of each organization was presented by both lecture and open forum, the latter providing excellent opportunity for discussing pressing and perplexing problems, as they were presented by local workers. It was necessary to hold many of the department meetings simultaneously. Special effort was made, however, by the University authorities to avoid conflict between departments where subjects were closely related. The Relief Society Division was in charge of Dean John C. Swenson, and General Relief Society President Clarissa S. Williams. President Williams was assisted and supported throughout the entire week by her counselors, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, both of whom attended every session. Other board members in attendance were as follows: Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Miss Lillian Cameron, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Mrs. Gates was present as the senior member of the Board of Trustees and assisted Professor Partridge in the very excellent and crowded sessions of the Genealogical Department. Aside from the instructions and inspiring remarks by members of the General Board, the following definite course of lectures was outlined: Introduction to the Course, Bishop C. W. Nibley, President Clarissa S. Williams; Background of Relief Work, Dean Swenson; Right to Live, Standards of Living, Problems in Community Welfare, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary Relief Society; Qualifications of Charity Worker, Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, President Utah Stake Relief Society; What to Do and How, Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Counselor in Utah Stake Relief Society and Executive Secretary of Community Welfare Department of Utah Stake; Essentials of a Happy Home, and The Boy and His Gang, by Dr. E. E. Erickson, University of Utah; Open Forum. It was regretted very keenly by Relief Society workers that Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley, who was scheduled to give the opening address of the convention, was unable to be present. He was out of the state at the time and did not return until the end of the week. President Williams, in her addresses, emphasized especially the importance and necessity of close cooperation in relief work between the Bishop and the Relief Society Ward President. Out of her rich experience as a ward president, in which capacity she served under three different bishops, Mrs. Williams learned conclusively that the most effective work and the best results obtain where the Bishop and the Relief Society President have a thor-  ough understanding and unity of plan and purpose in family welfare work. Mrs. Williams also emphasized the importance in family work of going into all situations carefully and prayerfully before treatment of any kind is given, including permanent relief. Dean Swenson, who is a specialist in sociology and related subjects, was at his best at all times, emphasizing those necessary and fundamental elements upon which successful family and community life are built. In point of attendance and interest no other group outclassed the Relief Society. There were registered in this department 212, representing the following stakes: Utah, Alpine, Nebo, Wasatch, Deseret, Tintic, Ogden, Sevier, Juab, Jordan, North Sanpete, Parowan, South Davis, Juarez, Uintah. Of the special entertainments given during the institute, none were more interesting and appealing, particularly to Relief Society women, than the three-act play "Saza" written by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer and staged by Mr. Earl Pardoe, professor of Dramatic Art of the B. Y. U., with students of the institution in the roles. The play is a thoroughly modern problem play with a good plot well wrought out. It is the story of the rehabilitation of a family. The message is put over without being preachy or monotonous, and the interest maintained to the end. The best features of the play are the problem itself and the excellent dialogue which is snappy throughout. The success of Leadership Week at the B. Y. U. Is a great 'tribute to Dr. Frank S. Harris, the new president of the institution. The Church and the School are both fortunate to have in this position one so well trained, so vigorous, and by nature so well equipped to direct the affairs of this great Church educational institution. Dr. Harris' enthusiasm and inspiring leadership were felt in every department and in every exercise. Those in attendance were deeply grateful to President Harris and his faithful assistants and to the Church itself for providing this excellent opportunity for them to gain valuable knowledge and information, and more important even than this, for the opportunity of being caught up, as it were, where fields of vision and possibilities were opened to them. Nebo Stake. The free clinic work that has been accomplished under the direction of the Nebo Stake Relief Society Presidency, is worthy of special note. Through their untiring efforts, a number of children have been operated upon for diseased tonsils and adenoids, who otherwise would not have been attended to. Much credit is also due local physicians for the interest they manifested  in this movement. The doctors, together with their nurses and members of the Stake Board, who assisted in caring for the children after they were operated on, made it possible for thirty children to enter school Jast fall in a better condition to take up their school work, than ever before. There are a number of others who will be treated in the near future under the free clinic, through the kind cooperation of the doctors with the stake Relief Society presidency. At the beginning of. The fall work, the Nebo Stake Relief Society Board gave a social in the Salem Ward meetinghouse for all the ward officers and teachers of the Relief Societies of the Stake. A splendid program had been arranged by a special program committee for the occasion. Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler of the Utah Stake was present and gave a very interesting and helpful talk to the teachers. Refreshments were served to about 450 Relief Society workers and a very enjoyable time was spent in a social way. Those who were present will look forward to this annual occurrence. Taylor Stake. Since the vist of President Clarissa S. Williams to Taylor Stake, ward conferences have been held in all the wards. The Priesthood very kindly permitted these conferences to be held in every instance, on Sunday evening. Stake officers were present at the different meetings. The programs were excellent, each ward reported the various phases of its work and what it has accomplished. In some of the wards the Relief Society choirs did the singing, and in some instances, all the solos, duets, and choruses were taken from the Relief Society Song Book. Literature lessons on the L. D. S. Hymns and Theology Lessons were given and talks on the Social Service Work. The stake officers feel that these conferences were very successful and helpful and some of the ward presidents have reported that their attendance has been increased as a result. Beginning with the year 1922, the Relief Society of each ward in the stake will be asked to furnish two musical numbers every fourth Sunday of each month for sacrament meeting. Millard Stake. Ward conferences in the Millard Stake Relief Society have just keen completed. Through the courtesy of the stake presidency and ward bishops these conferences were held Sunday afternoons at the regular time for the Sacrament meeting. The bishops presided until after the sacrament was administered and then turned the service over to the Relief Society. Very interesting and instructive programs were given. In some of  the wards in this stake, 100% of the Relief Society teachers are visiting. In one ward, every married woman in the ward is enrolled in the Relief Society. The stake officers have offered a prize to the ward getting the largest percent of subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine for 1922. REORGANIZATIONS Woodruff Stake. At the monthly stake Priesthood meeting held Friday, November 18, 1921, Mrs. Zina L. Taggart resigned from her position as president of the Relief Society of the Woodruff stake Mrs. Taggart was honorably released, and immediately after the evening meeting, the Relief Society stake board entertained those present at a social in compliment to her. A short, spicy program was rendered, after which the stake board served delicious refreshments. Mrs. Taggart was presented with a beautiful token of love and esteem from the officers of the stake board, and she will take with her to her new residence, Utah, many fond memories of pleasant associations with Woodruff stake. Mrs. Esther Thomas, of Evanston, Wyoming, has since been appointed president of the Relief Society of the Woodruff stake. She has retained the stake counselors and all of the former board members. Tooele Stake. The Tooele Stake Relief Society was reorganized on October 23, 1921. Mrs. Alice R. Roolley, who had served for twenty years as stake president, was honorably released on account of ill health, and Mrs. Maggie W. Anderson was appointed to serve in her place. Jordan Stake. On November 17, 1921, Jordan stake was reorganized. Mrs. Hilda H. Larson, who had served faithfully and well for many years, resigned her position on account of failing health, and Mrs. Elfleda Jenson was appointed to succeed her. Mrs. Larson has served twenty-two years on the Stake Relief Society Board, and twenty years as president. In honor of Mrs. Larson and the retiring board members, a social in the nature of a testimonial was given by the new stake officers and board members, when the following program was given: Singing; Invocation, President William D. Kuhre; Address of Welcome, Mrs. Mary B. Fitzgerald; Song, Mrs. Eunice Nelson; Rhymes for retiring presidency and board members, Electa Nelson; Community Singing; Remarks, President Soren Rasmussen; Presentation of gift to the retiring board by Mrs. Mania Goff; Remarks, President, Clarissa S. Williams, Counselor Louise Y. Robison, Amy B. Lyman, and Sarah M. McLelland. EDITORIAL  Motte—Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Mrs. Susa Younc Gates Business Manager -. - - - Mrs. JEANETTE A. Hypve Assistant Manager Mrs. AMy Brown LyMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IX MARCH, 1822 No. 3 PRAYER Everybody in this Church, and most people outside, accept the principle of prayer as a saving grace. We read about it and talk much about it. But there is a lack of actual practice by members in good standing in this Church. In the majority ef our homes there is a more or less (rather less than more) regular habit of holding prayers once a day. Sometimes family prayers are held in the morning, just before breakfast, or in the evening just before dinner or bedtime. How many families do you know who have regular family prayers twice a day? If we kneel once a day in family prayers, most of us let it go at that, and our private prayers are said while on our feet, or in snatches of thought while at our daily tasks. We justify my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven cere desire, uttered or unexpressed," from the well-known hynin. So it is; but the Lord did not intend to have all our praying done that way or he would not have given us the explicit instructions and admonitions we find in the Scriptures, ancient and modern. Twice a day, at least, we should appear on bended knees, in private prayers before the Throne of Grace. How many of you pray secretly twice a day? Then there is the pitiful neglect to train?train, I said? children to pray secretly twice a day. If such habits are not formed in childhood it is next to impossible to adopt the praying habit in adult life. Boys and men are especially neglected and 166 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE neglectful in this matter. How many mothers do you know who gather the little children round them, listening to the morning and evening prayer from lisping lips? Do you know any? Any grandmothers who lift this daily task from the burdened young mother's shoulders, lovingly fastening this best and most profitable habit on the souls and characters of the growing children? Are you thus helping? Prayer is not only a good and simple subject to study about, it is a living principle of life and soul growth. It is next to impossible for men and women to grow and progress in this Church without daily, regular, secret and family prayer. You will often find this neglect at the very root of the indifference and gradual apostasy of both men and women. Some who seem to shoot up like meteors in our religious sky and then fade and fall away into dim forgetfulness, often do so because of the pride, selfishness and overweening self confidence which saps the very roots of sure testimony and reliance upon God. Man cannot save himself; he can be saved?only and wholly?by leaning upon Christ and the Father in real acknowledgment of human weakness and human inability to save itself. Prayer is the pressure of our hands upon the button which connects the line between us and our Father. There is the illuminating radiance, the help and sustenance waiting, waiting for the pressure of our hand upon the communicating button. It is our fault if we fail to touch that source of power, releasing thereby the divine forces of love and comfort, of actual help and physical assistance which are ours to command. Do you pray? BOOK NOTICE The Isolation Plan, by William H. Blymyer is one of many charming good books. It is published by The Cornhill Company, 2 a Park Street, Boston, Mass., and the price is but $2. The following gives a brief outline of this excellent book: "Disarmament is the topic of the day in-all nations, and in this notable book, Mr. Blymyer sets forth a plan for an international convention under which the nations would simultaneously cease their military and naval activities and institute compulsory arbitration under the sanction of isolating any nations that refused to submit or to comply with an award until conformance."