[Vol23 | January 1936 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Mothers Penrose]
Yetvalll the iaine | Kags That all along the distant roads The lights were shining still! Mother's Aid By Ruth McQuarrie Penrose Director Mothers' Aid, Salt Lake County HE welfare of children is the basic objective of all social legislation. However, until recent years, laws pertaining especially to children provided only for institutional care and correction of the homeless and delinquent child.
Very little attention was given to the preventive field until the public became aware of some of the causes of the ever-increasing evils of dependency and delinquency.
Efforts were made to discover ways and means to meet the situation. Juvenile Courts, Mother's Congress, Hull House and other interested groups made extensive investigations. It was found that many widowed mothers left with young children and no means of support were often obliged to leave their families unsupervised to go out and earn a meager living.
These mothers resided in crowded and undesirable districts where rent was cheap.
Wages to unskilled workers were inadequate.
This losing economic battle resulted in broken health, and often in the death of such mothers.
These situations accounted in a measure for the everincreasing number of dependent children. N_ 1909, President Theodore Roosevelt called the first White House Conference on the care of the dependent child. The outgrowth of this first conference was that Mothers' Assistance laws were enacted in many states, and the United States Children's Bureau was established. The assembled delegates at that first conference concluded that the welfare of a state depends upon the quality of its citizens; and that "homemade" children cared for by their own mothers have a better chance to become healthy normal citizens.
Home life being the finest product of civilization, it thereby becomes the duty of the state to conserve the home as its most valuable asset whenever factors other than the improper guardianship of the parent threaten its destruction. Aid for children in their own homes is not only a welfare measure but an economic one also, as it has been proven that it is actually cheaper in dollars and cents to maintain children in their own homes than to support them in institutions.
Similar conferences have been called every ten years by the President of the United States. In 1919, President Woodrow Wilson called the second White House Conference which resulted in expanding and improving mothers' assistance laws throughout the country. In 1929, President Herbert Hoover called the third conference, known as the "White House Conference on Child Health and Protection" which convened in 1930. "The Children's Charter' came out of this third conference, also "findings" and "recommendation" which were widely studied.
This conference together with the subsequent economic depression spurred greater action in the preventive field and more far reaching aid for the nation's children. MOTHERS' AID 41 MOTHERS' AID IN UTAH UBLIC Support of Dependent Widowed Mothers, commonly known as the "Widow's Pension Law" was passed by the Utah State Legislature in 1913. At first the Juvenile Court administered this law; later the responsibility of administration was transferred to the Board of County Commissioners.
This law has been amended several times. In 1933 it was made definitely a Mothers' Aid Law. The definition of "widow" was changed from ''widowed by death" to a Mother who has been left with young children and no means of support regardless of the cause. If the father be dead, has deserted, been divorced or is incapacitated to earn a living, and is in a mental, physical or penal institution, the mother is eligible for this aid to support her young children. The Mother's Aid Law is classed with the child welfare group of laws and is in the preventive field—aiming to prevent children, thus aided, from becoming delinquent by keeping the mother at home with her children while they are very young. The Social Security Act in Title Four is extending and strengthening the aid to dependent children in every state and will, when a state qualifies for such aid, take the place of the mothers' aid law and will be termed "Aid to dependent children." "PUBLIC AID TO DEPENDENT CHILDREN" Title Four of the Social Security Act authorizes federal financial assistance to States for care of their needy dependent children. A state, in order to qualify for such federal aid must submit a plan of child-care to be approved by the National Social Security Board. Any plan to be approved must: 1. Be state-wide. 2.
Provide for financial participation by the State and County. 3.
Provide for state administration or supervision of administration. 4.
Provide for a fair hearing before the State Board if a claim ls denied to an applicant. 5. If there be one child in the family, the allowance for such child shall not exceed $18.00 per month. If there be more than one child the allowance shall not exceed $12.00 for such other dependent child or children. 6. The County Welfare Board will report to the State Board of Public Welfare. The State Welfare Board will report to the Federal Social Security Board. 7. The term "dependent child" means a child under the age of sixteen who has been deprived of parental support by death, desertion, divorce, physical or mental incapacity of a parent, and is living with his father, mother, grandparent, brother, sister, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, uncle or aunt, in a place of residence maintained by one or more such relatives as his home. 8. The term "aid to dependent children" means money payments with respect to a dependent child or dependent children. Cr Notes to TEN MINUTES—THEY'RE YOURS By Ida Peterson Beal Azout six years ago at the Mc Cune School of Music one of the first departmental meetings of the Choristers and Organists was held. It was most gratifying to see the large number present, and their manifest.
Interest and enthusiasm in the problem of improving the singing in the Relief Society.
Many choristers gave helpful suggestions as to how they had met the need long felt by them for this training.
Their principal complaint at this meeting was that heretofore, there had been no time given to the choristers for practice, and no special recognition of their duties.
They spoke in apologetical terms of their calling, and seemed to have very little faith in their own abilities.
Such a condition, and frame of mind, was not helpful to them. How could they under such conditions be stimulated to do the fine constructive work they were capable of doing? Time, in the meetings of the Relief Society, should be set aside for the use of the choristers. Ten minutes in each meeting for practice was all they asked for.
