[Vol23 | January 1936 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department (For First Week in June) Theology and Testimony LESSON IX THE WESTWARD MIGRATION 1. The Critical Period. The death of the Prophet Joseph Smith brought about the first disorganization of the Presidency of the church.
Although the revelations were very clear concerning the matter of succession, yet the saints had given but little thought to such a contingency, and therefore many of them were greatly confused when the problem actually confronted them. In a revelation given to the apostles some nine years earlier, the Lord declared that ?The twelve traveling councilors are called to be Twelve Apostles, or special witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world?thus differing from other officers in the church in the duties of their calling. And they form a quorum equal in authority and power to the three presidents previously mentioned." (D. & C. 107:23, 24) 2. At the time of the martyrdom most of the apostles were absent on missions; only two were at home and one of these was seriously injured.
Immediately upon receiving word, those who were away hurried back to Nauvoo. For several years prior to this time, Sidney Rigdon, first councilor to Joseph Smith, had made his residence at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, contrary to the wishes of the Prophet and the commandment of God. (See D. & C. 124: 108-110). But as soon as he learned of Joseph's death, he also hastened to Nauvoo, arriving there on the third of August, about three or four days ahead of most of the apostles. 3.
Doubtless hoping to have a leader appointed before the apostles arrived, Sidney Rigdon called a meeting in the forenoon of August 4, 1844, and offered himself as guardian for the church. He spoke at great length in favor of this proposal.
Another meeting was held in the afternoon, with the same object in view. Elder William Marks, president of the stake, announced a meeting for August 8, although Sidney Rigdon wanted it called for the 6th.
This was indeed fortunate, for President Young and several of the apostles did not reach Nauvoo until the evening of the last-named date, namely August 6. 4. In the forenoon of the appointed day, August 8, a great throng of people gathered in the grove near the temple. Sidney Rigdon took up his position in a wagon about two rods in front of the stand and spoke for nearly an hour and a half. He again proposed himself as guardian of the church, but the longer he talked, the less the people appeared willing to receive him. President Young spoke briefly and announced that the meeting would be continued at two o'clock in the afternoon. 5. At the appointed time the multitude returned. President Young addressed the assembly with frankness and great power, declaring that the apostles had been appointed and ordained to bear the Keys of the Kingdom of God in all the world. He said he did not want to bias the saints against the claims of Sidney
LESSON DEPARTMENT 55
Rigdon, and urged them to vote precisely as they felt. It was upon this occasion, according to widespread testimony, that Brigham Young was transformed into the likeness of the slain prophet?voice, person and manner. 6.
When the question was put to the assembly as to whether or not they were willing to sustain the apostles as leaders of the church, the vote was unanimous in the affirmative.
Thus from the time of the Prophet's death in June of 1844, to December of 1847, the Twelve Apostles with Brigham Young at their head, constituted the presiding council of the church. On the 15th of December, 1847, Brigham Young was sustained as President of the church.
This was done at Winter Quarters after his return from the memorable pioneer journey to the Rocky Mountains. 7. Persecution Continued. The murdering of the Prophet and his brother, Hyrum, merely had the effect of intensifying the determination of the enemies of the church to wreak their fiendish passions on its entire membership. The Prophet had foreseen this, for in an address to the Nauvoo Legion, delivered near - the Mansion on June 18, 1844, he said: "It is thought by some that our enemies would be satisfied with my destruction; but I tell you that as soon as they have shed my blood, they will thirst for the blood of every man in whose heart dwells a single spark of the spirit of the fullness of the Gospel. The opposition of these men is moved by the spirit of the adversary of all righteousness. It is not only to destroy me, but every man and woman who dares to believe the doctrines that God hath inspired me to teach to this generation." (History of the Church, Vol. VI, p. 498.) 8.
Doubtless the enemies of the Prophet thought that when he and Hyrum were put to death, the church would come to a sudden end. Therefore, when they witnessed the installation of new officers and the determination of the membership to carry on, their anger was rekindled and they turned their wicked attention to the, people as a whole. A campaign to incite public opinion against the church was launched in several unfriendly papers. The saints were charged with theft, immorality, disloyalty to county, and nearly every crime in the criminal calendar.
Schemes were launched to provoke the saints to retaliation. The homes of scattered members were burned and the families seriously harassed and mistreated.
Meantime the Governor permitted these merciless attacks to go on unrestrained. 9. Finally, of course, the breaking point came and the saints were notified by a committee that they were expected to move from the state of Illinois.
Counter proposals were of no avail, and eventually, under threats of armed force, the demand was acceded to. 10.
Migration to Winter Quarters.
Departure from Nauvoo began in the early part of February, 1846. At this season of the year, the great Mississippi was covered with ice and the weather was altogether unfavorable to travel; but in the face of these untoward conditions, a large contingent of the saints moved across the river and camped at Sugar Creek, a few miles within the state of Iowa. It is recorded that during the first night of the encampment here, nine infants were born. The company remained at this place for nearly a month, receiving reinforcements and organizing for the journey ahead. By this time there were four hundred wagons, many of them 

  poorly covered, and with insufficient teams to permit of more than extremely slow travel. The roads too were nearly impassable due to heavy rains and the clay-like nature of the soil. 11. At the outset of the journey, one hundred men were sent ahead to improve the roads and to locate places where crops might be planted and houses be built for the temporary use of the stream of slowly oncoming saints.
Such a site was selected on the east fork of Grand river, one hundred forty-five miles west of Nauvoo, and named Garden Grove.
Land was cleared, fences were put up, roads were improved, fields were prepared for cultivation, wells were dug, houses were built, and thus a village magically rose in the midst of the wilderness. 12.
Another such resting place was established at a locality named Mount Pisgah, twenty-seven miles west of Garden Grove.
Here seven thousand acres were fenced and made ready for cultivation. It should be observed that to the lasting credit of these pioneers they were willing to plant that others might reap.
Such unselfishness, such devotion to the cause of human brotherhood, is probably without a parallel in the history of mankind. 13.
Some four months after the departure of the saints from Nauvoo, the vanguard of the company began to arrive at the east banks of the Missouri river, not far from Council Bluffs, an outpost of civilization.
Daily arrivals soon swelled the company to nearly five hundred wagons. 14. It was the original intention of President Young and the apostles to send a strong contingent of able bodied men to the Rocky Mountains that season to build houses and plant crops preparatory to the arrival of the body of the saints. The main company, however, had been compelled to travel very slowly because of its unexpectedly large size, and just now it had been weakened by the request of the government for five hundred volunteers for the war with Mexico.
Because of this, it was decided to postpone the Rocky Mountain project until early the following spring. 15. Accordingly, a decision was reached to remain at the river for the winter.
Permission was obtained from the chiefs of the Pottawattamie Indian tribes to build temporary quarters on the west bank of the river.
Here a site was chosen and named Winter Quarters.
Houses were built; a council house, for the holding of meetings, was constructed; a grist mill was put up; and the area was improved generally. The object was doubtless as much to keep the people busy as to provide for their convenience. In spite of these efforts, however, there was much suffering arising perhaps chiefly from improper food and congestion of living quarters. The arrival of springtime was most welcome. 16.
Onward to the Valleys.
Preparation for the journey westward went steadily forward throughout the winter. Sturdy, able-bodied men were selected for the journey?uncomplaining, fearless men, who had already proved their integrity to the cause of truth. On the 14th of January, 1847, the word of the Lord came to President Young giving instruction for the organization of the Pioneer company and its guidance to the West. (See D. & C. 136) 17.
Some seven weeks later, namely, April 5, 1847, the first contingent left Winter Quarters and shortly thereafter went into temporary camp some forty-seven miles to
LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 the westward slightly beyond the Elkhorn river.
Within the next few days, several other contingents concentrated at this place and on the 14th of April the entire company was organized for its unparalleled trip to the Rocky Mountains. The total number of people was one hundred forty-seven, of whom three were women and two were children. 18. In addition to the organization just mentioned which was de-.
Signed chiefly to facilitate travel, a military organization was also effected, with Brigham Young as lieutenant-general; Stephen Markham, colonel; John Pack and Shadrach Roundy, majors. 19. The route of travel was along the north side of the Platte River to Fort Laramie, eastern Wyoming. At this point the company crossed the Platte to the south side and recrossed it slightly to the west of the present site of Casper. The journey continued up the Sweetwater into the drainage of the Green river and thence over the great Basin divide into the headwaters of Bear river.
From here onward the company passed through Echo canyon, East canyon, Emigration, and into Salt Lake Valley. 20. The first of the Pioneers reached Salt Lake Valley on July 21, 1847.
Others came on the 22nd and still others on the 24th. In harmony with instruction from President Young, who was delayed because of illness, those who entered on the 21st and 22nd sought out a place where planting could begin and a city be built.
This was done and plowing was commenced on the 23rd. In the meantime President Young was kept informed of what was being done.
Thus on the 24th of July, 1847, as the carriage in which the President was riding drew up in such a position that he could see the valley, he prophetically declared, "This is the Place." 21. The journey from Winter Quarters had consumed almost precisely one hundred days, and the distance traveled was slightly more than a thousand miles.
Before the close of the season in excess of two thousand people had reached the valley. A new refuge had been founded?Zion, in the tops of the mountains.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why was the period immediately following the Prophet's death the most critical in the history of the church? 2.
What do you know of President Young's "transfiguration''?
Have you heard anyone testify that witnessed it? 3. Why in your judgment should the Prophet's enemies turn upon the saints after they had slain him? 4.
What is the distance from Nauvoo to Council Bluffs? How long would it take you to travel this distance? 5.
What do you think of the integrity of a people who would plant that others might reap? 6. Why was it advisable that the people should be kept busy at Winter Quarters? Do we have any modern parallels? 7. In what respects did the Pioneers perform a mighty service for the church?