[Vol23 | January 1936 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]

Work and Business LIGHTING AND LAMP SHADES HESE long winter nights when children are preparing lessons, proper lighting is very important.
Unshaded lights produce a glare which is hard on the eyes. To avoid this all bulbs should be shaded to diffuse the light. In the discussion on Home Lighting, pg. 50 of Handicraft for Every Woman, many essential facts concerning this subject are given as well as suggestions and directions for making lamp shades for every type of lamp and to suit any pocket book. CONSUMER PROBLEMS HEN you buy tempting bargains that prove after the first washing to be shoddy merchandise. You are not only cheating yourself you are helping to undermine conditions of everybody from the farmer who grows the cotton to the people who weave it into cloth and the men and women who sell it to you as finished product."
Selection and wearing of clothes has a prominent place in the business of living. Few things offer such a lift to depressed spirits as a new hat or shoes.
What we wear does more than cover and protect our bodies.
Other human needs are security, response, recognition, new experiences. The glamour of any occasion whatever the place or season is largely created by the shimmer and shine, the jaunty cut, the grace and color of clothes. If wisely chosen they enhance looks, and personalities. In lieu of big adventures we find new experiences in things close at hand.
Have we exploited the possibilities of clothing as thoroughly as we might?
Sewing in an occupational therapy and in good times as well as bad, handiwork has been an outlet for the creative impulse.
Personal habits, general standards, poise and satisfaction are reflected in appearance. The more perishable goods with constant style changes enforce indulgence of our love of novelty which requires better consideration of values.
Fashioning of all ready-to-wear products is done so well that even inexpensive garments register smartness. If as much could be said of the fabric durability, workmanship and quality, buying would be better done.
Some points to consider in buying ready-to-wear dresses are: 1.
Know what you can afford. 2.
Know definitely what you want from the dress you buy. 3.
Responsibility of shop for quality of merchandise it sells. 4.
Strength and purity of fabric. 5.
Color fastness? to sunlight and perspiration as well as washing. 6. Shrinkability "completely shrunk" or "will not shrink" are safest labels. 7.
Style and fit. 8.
Workmanship which includes seams, hems, pockets, button holes, stitching, trimmings as button buckles. 9.
Laundering and cleaning. QUESTIONS 1.
What should govern the amount spent for clothing?
What per cent of budget? 2.
Discuss the important points to be considered in buying ready-to-wear dresses. 3.
Compare ready-to-wear with home made clothing as to economy of time, money, energy, material, See Better Buymanship Series, Household Finance Corporation, 919 N, Michi. Gan Ave., Chicago, ILL LESSON DEPARTMENT 59 style, fit, and becomingness.
Which of careful and intelligent buying and do you prefer?
Wearing of clothing? 4.
What is the psychological value Teacher's Topic (For June 1936) Proverbs 31:10-31 "Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; * her clothing is silk and purple. Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant.
Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.
Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all.
Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.
Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates." THE last chapter of Proverbs closes with the description of a good woman and well may it do so, for woman's place is so important that when woman fails, civilization fails.
Verily in her keeping are the issues of life. Her standard determines the tone of society. "Pure, true and strong, she makes men worship purity, truth and strength. Corrupt, false and vain, she blights and blasts the ideal of man, lowers all his aspirations, excites his evil passions to a frenzy of iniquity, degrades his soul to a level below the brutes."
Some one has well said that the condition of woman is the touch stone of a civilized society. She has stronger religious feeling and faith and is more susceptible to spiritual influences than is man. "The man is not without the woman in the Lord." The one who is so glorified in this chapter is a wife.
Neither man nor woman is complete without the other. Her husband finds in her his trust. She doeth 

  him good all the days of his life. It is this strength at home that gives to most men their dignity and place in public life. He is known in the gates because he gets peace, assurance and help in his home. Her children rise up and her husband too to praise her. She is industrious and because of her industry is a source of wealth to her husband. She seems to be able to increase the money entrusted to her. She is generous. "She spreadeth out her hand to the poor," Economy and generosity go hand in hand. "Where the woman who has been described is actually found in real life," says R. L. Horton, "it is for us to recognize her and to reward her. Let society take note of her: ?Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates'. The great Greek historian said that woman's highest praise consisted in not being mentioned at all.
That is not the teaching of Revelation3Woman's best work is often done in silence and without observation, but her highest praise is when the seeds sown in silence have grown into flowers of loveliness and fruit that is sweet to the taste, and the whole community is forced to yield her the honor which is her due, exalting, with heartfelt admiration and with deep gratitude to God, the Wife, the Mother, the Ministrant to the Poor." Discussion 1.
Enumerate the virtues of' the woman here depicted. 2.
Show that there was a balance in her virtues. 3.
Look around you and find counterparts in your own. Ward. 4. It would be interesting in this connection to read the following Proverbs dealing with women: 22: 14; 23:27; 19:13; 21:9; 25:24; 21: 19; 27:15; 17:16; 11:22; 14:1. Literature (For Third Week in June) ADVENTURES IN READING NEW LAMPS FOR OLD "In time there is nothing either old or new; there is only the rising and the falling of the Infinite Tide."?Elbert Hubbard. "New lamps for old," the genie of contemporary literature calls to today's readers. Today's poets, as of old, sing of the beauty of Nature, of the passions of Mankind, and of Life and Love.
They also sing of the mine and the factory, the immigrant on Ellis Island and the sailor at the mast.
There are also new forms and new styles, some alluring, some strange. In today's world of books where the "best seller" is the popular stamp of approval, the book "that is the precious life-blood of a master" is as of old "a magic casement opening on the foam." An Old Theme in a New World "The King's Henchman," a beautiful poetic drama, by Edna St. Vincent Millay provided the libretto for one of the most effective and artistically constructed American operas which has reached the stage. Edna St. Vincent Millay is easily ranked as one of the foremost of the new poets. She came to fame by her early volume of poems "Re-nas'- cence," of which collection "God's World" is the best known. Her latest work, a book of sonnets, is a record of her spirit, the joy of living and loving. Miss Millay graduated from Vassar in 1917. In 1921 she was awarded the Columbia Poetry Prize, and in 1922 the Pulitzer Prize. It is accepted by literary critics that she and John Masefield are the greatest living sonnet writers. Harriet Monroe, American critic, claims for Edna St. Vincent Millay "the richest, most varied, and most precious gift of song which any woman since the immortal Sappho has offered to the world." The theme of the drama "The King's Henchman" is an old literary remnant originally attributed to Celtic literature, and found in some form in all Teutonic literatures as the story of Tristan and Iseult. The story as found in the Arthurian cycle was used by Tennyson in "The Idylls of the King," another version was used by Wagner for his music drama "Tristan and Isolde." The setting of the drama is placed in the eighth century during the reign of King Edgar of England. The first act takes place in the king's banquet hall at Winchester. The court is assembled and Maccus, the grizzled friend of the king and a most skilful harpist has been singing the favorite song of the court, the saga of the glory and death of Cynewulf, King of Wessex. As the singer chants the story of the treachery that happened to the warrior at the door of his mistress by a rival for his throne, the courtiers listen in wrapt attention to the song of what happened: "By the bower of the Lady, Quenched forever, quelled and cold. Synewulf, the King!"
After the singing the lords talk among themselves as they drink their wine. The ladies of the court discuss openly the latest news of the court, that the king is going to request the Thane of Devon to give his beautiful daughter, Aelfrida, for his bride. Aethelwold, trusted foster-brother of the king, is chosen to be the king's henchman for the mission to the court of Devon. He accepts the task out of love for his brother but with little glee, because he is a clumsy fellow, knowing little of the delicacies of women. The soldiers chosen to accompany Aethelwold assemble to the stirring old battle-song of the Cornish men, "O Ceasar, great wert thou', and as they depart the chorus rang out again and again; "Caesar, thy day is done, While ours is but begun!" The second act takes place on All Hallow's Eve.
Aethelwold is near his destination, and rests with his men at nightfall in the forest near the Thane of Devon's castle.
Aethelwold is near his destination, and rests with his men at nightfall in the forest near the Thane of Devon?s castle.
Aelfrida has come to the forest with her serving-woman, Ase, "to seek in rune and spell a lover," for the old legend states that the first man a maiden meets in the woods that night will become her husband. As Aelfrida sings the incantation: White-thorn and black-thorn All Hallow's Eve is All Saint's Morning, Show him in dream, yet nothing dim The shadow and the shape of him," the light of the torch reveals the sleeping henchman.
Days of infatuation follow, and Aethelwold withholds the facts of his mission. Later, Maccus is dispatched to the king with the message, "the maiden is comely and friendly spoken, but nothing for a king." The henchman and the maid wed.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 

  The last act of the drama opens at the home of the Thane of Devon some months later. Already, Aethelwold is suffering remorse for his treachery, the beauty of his bride cannot bring him peace of mind. Aelfrida, bored by household cares, continually chafes at her lowly estate.
Aethelwold plans to leave Britain and go to Ghent in Flanders.
Before the preparations are completed, however, news is brought that King Edgar is on his way to visit his foster-brother. Hastily, Aethelwold tells his wife the truth, "but for the mist, thou hads't been Queen of England." He pleads with her to hide from the king, to disguise her beauty by darkening her skin and hair, anything to shield him from blame.
Aelfrida promises to protect her husband, as the marching-song of the king's men is heard in the distance. Ase has been listening to Aethelwold's confession and request, now she urges her mistress "to drop her silver shell that she might pick up a gold one." The first greeting between the two brothers is most affectionate. Soon Aelfrida enters dressed in her richest attire, her beautiful hair loosed from its braids, and on her forehead a golden band. Slowly Edgar begins to understand the course of things.
Gently he reproaches his brother with the words, "My life hath been but a heaping of sticks under an empty pot."
Nothing now can stem the anguish of Aethelwold at his own treachery as he sees the suffering of Edgar. The henchman falls on his own sword before anyone can stop him.
Aelfrida weeps bitterly at the feet of the king, who noting her shallowness exclaims, "Thou hast not tears enow in thy narrow head to weep him worthily." The king and his followers return home, taking the body for burial. The music for the opera was composed by Deems Taylor for the Metropolitan Opera Company production in New York in 1927. The success of the undertaking was immediate and unmistakable. The text of the libretto is beautiful, written in quaint phrases. The theme lacks the inevitability of the early legends, as it bears the marks of modernity. It is considered, however, a noble attempt at poetic drama. They Who Bring Dreams America has been termed "the melting-pot of civilizations." As soon as it was established that Freedom was her watchword, men of all nations turned towards her shores. To the Gate of the West they came from all climes: from the land death-.
Less in song and story that nursed Socrates, from the Polish leas that gave birth to the melodies of Chopin and Dvorak, from the land that reared Ceasar and Dante and Angelo, and sped the Genoese boy at the Santa Maria's prow to give the world a new message. "On and on." All newcomers with dreams, dreams bred in the glory and greatness of the past and born anew in the hope of the future: "Nations of darers and dreamers.
Scions of singers and seers. Oe * * k OF Newcomers all from the eastern seas, Help us incarnate dreams like these, Help us father a nation, strong Jn the comradeship of an equal birth, In the wealth of the richest bloods of earth." ?Robert Haven Schauffler. The short story is the newest of all literary forms and it is American in origin.
From the dawn of history all ages, all nations, all peoples, civilized or savage, have been storytellers. America's greatest contribution to the field of modern literature is the short story.
Perhaps no story
LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 represents the secret of the greatness of America's contribution to this literary form so well as does the story, "The Citizen" by Francis Dwyer. The Citizen It is fitting that this American story should have as its author an American by adoption. In May, 1915, just after the sinking of the "Lusitania" when everyone's loyalty seemed to be focussed on thoughts of patriotism.
Philadelphia welcomed into citizenship two thousand foreign born citizens. Mr. Dwyer, in his story, has made of the occasion a record for all time. One little woman held the hand of a big, muscular man as she listened to the President of the United States welcoming its newest citizens, "You were drawn across the sea by some beckoning finger of hope, by some belief, by some vision of a new kind of justice, by some expectation of a better kind of life. You dreamed dreams of this country, and I hope you brought the dreams with you. A man enriches the country to which he brings dreams, and you who have brought them have enriched America. No doubt you have been disappointed in some of us, but remember this, if we have grown poor in the ideal, you brought some of it with you. A man does not go out to seek the thing that is not in him. A man does not hope for the thing that he does not believe in, and if some of us have forgotten what America believed in, you at any rate imported in your own hearts a renewal of the belief.
Each of you, I am sure, brought a dream, a glorious, shining dream, a dream worth more than gold or silver, and that is the reason that I for one, make you welcome." Big Ivan of the Bridge, holding Annie's hand, remembered every detail of his dream. How the idea first came to him in the land of his fathers by the Black Sea; how each coin was earned and saved for the journey; the weariness of the long tiresome days of travel by road, rail, and steamer; the arrival at Ellis Island and the confusion; the kind policeman who with a whistle stopped the roaring traffic while Ivan, his one trunk on his shoulder and holding tight to Annie's hand, crossed in safety; and now these words of welcome. The words of the President continued: "We grow great by dreams. All big men are dreamers.
They see things in the soft haze of a spring day or in the red fire of a long winter's evening.
Some of us let those great dreams die, but others nourish and protect them, nurse them through bad days till they bring them to sunshine and light which come always to those who sincerely hope that their dreams will come true." 'Big Ivan held Annie's hand tighter and whispered, "He knew of it. Did you hear what he said about dreams?" The band began to play, and Ivan and Annie got to their feet.
Standing side by side they joined in with the others who too had found their way to the land of dreams.
Songs of Our People From the simple beauty of the hymn "My Mountain Home So Dear" to the most exalted utterances of the prophetic leaders of the Latter-day Saints is a literary record unique in the annals of cultural and religious experience.
Paralleling in thought the Hebrew belief of the Old Testament that they were the chosen people of God, they have related their experiences in narrative, lyric, and philosophic poetry. As the words of the beautiful poem "An Angel from on High" unfolds, 
  the story of the restoration of the everlasting gospel in the latter days is given to the world; man's destiny has never been more beautifully pronounced to the world in any literature than it came from the pen of Eliza R. Snow in "O My Father." God's children in the valleys of the mountains in days of disadvantage and disappointment should find new courage in the assurance of the song of the travail of the days of yore, "Come, Come Ye Saints;" and as life with its complexity shakes man's poise and self-control is threatened, "School Thy Feelings" is a bulwark. The days pass on like a tale that is told. For the generations to come the story of the Pioneers has been told with delightful simplicity in "The Exiles" by Alfred Osmond. After the pattern of the epic tale of Longfellow's "Hiawatha" this poet of our people has recorded the experiences of the exiles as they crossed the trackless plains to a new home, where like the Hebrews of old they sought freedom to continue as God's chosen people. In conclusion of the series of lessons I leave a message: "No man can reveal to you aught but that which already lies half asleep in the dawning of your knowledge. "The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple, among his followers, gives not of his wisdom but of his faith and lovingness. "If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter the house of his wisdom, but rather leads you to the threshold of your understanding ?The Prophet, Kahil. Gibran.
NEW LAMPS FOR OLD
Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. 1. The old theme "Tristran and Iseult'' 2. Review: "The King's Henchman" 3. Reading: "The Exiles," Alfred Osmond Guide to Reading A. "Plet," Alfred Lambourne A story of early days in Utah. The tenderness and beauty of this metrical tale will be appreciated by all members of the family. B. "The Prophet," Kahil Gibran A prose poem of great beauty after the Hebrew pattern of the Psalms written by a new poet of the ancient race. C. "The Canterbury Pilgrims," Percy MacKaye A modern dramatist has used his imagination to reproduce the picture of fourteenth century society. It is more than a pageant parade of men. It reveals the spirit of the age of Chaucer, the morning of English literature. D. "Magic Spades," Steffins A simple account of the romance of archaeology. Today's understanding of the past has been enriched by this modern science of the ancient civilizations of the Hebrews, Egyptians, and the Greeks and are being revealed to us day by day as some new tomb, temple, or dwelling is uncovered by the spade of the archaeologist.