[Vol23 | January 1936 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Guide Lessons | Title: LESSON DEPARTMENT 65
Social Service]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 65
Social Service (Fourth Week in June) LESSON VIII HEALTH AND DISEASE Text: Chapter IX THE idea that "health is wealth" is gradually dawning on the public consciousness. It is a well determined fact that the health of the people is of more economic consequence to the financial well-being of the state than individual or business profits. Likewise, the relationship between a happy state of mind and a healthy body has long been recognized. What is not quite so well understood is that the general health of a community depends upon all of its members. The problem of physical health is too often considered to be a matter of individual or family consideration. However, as civilization becomes more complex the social aspect of public health also becomes more vital to all. Vigorous health in the community is an asset which returns joy and gladness to life and contributes to the economic welfare of the community. It is the purpose of this lesson to improve our understanding along these lines by developing the following specific purposes: 1. To see the relationship ? public health and social efficiency. 2. To develop confidence in preventive medicine as a means of making life happier. 3. To realize individual responsibility in upholding and furthering public health programs. Public health is a basic factor in social welfare. The following examples of social conditions reveal the Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross relationship between health and social efficiency. Many of our great social problems, such as poverty, crime, vice, and delinquency have a direct causal relationship to the health of the individual. This statement is substantiated by modern clinical practice, which, in its attempts to analyze individual cases in unsocial behavior, always requires a careful medical examination of the individual. In many cases symptoms of physical or mental illness are disclosed. In turn, the foundation of the unsocial behavior is often traced to the ill health of the clinical patient. With the improvement in health a positive social attitude has often been developed. Also, poor health leads to poverty. An analysis of health conditions, particularly in the larger industrial centers, reveals that where sickness flourishes there will be found poverty. And poverty is noted as one of the greatest causes of juvenile delinquency. Children go wrong in their attempts to find more absorbing interests in life than the meager home can offer. Better health should be accomplished by better home conditions, and consequently less delinquency. Since the supplying of medical attention and the handling of delinquency are two large items in public expenditures their control through health education should raise the level of social efficiency very materially. Public health and welfare agencies are doing much to improve 

  health conditions in industrial centers and in community life as a whole, but a growing consciousness that the problem of public health is one of mutual concern and interest and should be considered from a social standpoint would do much to further the work of the present agencies.
Sickness spreads from unkempt neighborhoods over large areas, and its victims are not restricted to the places of origin.
Sickness usually affects the mental outlook in an undesirable way. As a result of illness, men and women sometimes become cynical and pessimistic in regard to the higher ideals of life, and their struggles appear hopeless.
Many who are now publicly condemned for crime and immorality are suffering from a sick body or mind.
Family well-being depends upon the radiation of joy and cheer and the pleasurable association of friends which are the natural accompaniments of good mental and physical health.
Illness often pervades the home where the parents or children are the victims of unstable nerves.
Moods of depression or irritable feelings result in physical breakdown. The finer spiritual values of life will not flourish under such conditions, nor can character develop desirably in such an environment.
Preventive medicine could do much to make life happier for the public.
While to a certain extent the health of the people depends somewhat upon the energies and defects inherited from past generations, to a greater extent it depends upon the utilization of scientific medical knowledge and the proper adjustment of controllable environmental influences. The extent to which preventive medicine is controlling diseases at one time considered a necessary problem of life is one of the marvels of the age. Yellow Fever, which once cost the United States $100,000,000 annually, has now disappeared from the United States. The death rate from typhoid fever has been reduced from 35.9 persons per 100,000 to 4.8 persons.
Many diseases have been eliminated from the active list. The death rate in diphtheria has been reduced from 43.3 persons per 100,000 to 4.9 in 1930, with prospects of complete elimination. 'The expectation of life, i. E. The average age at death, has greatly increased, particularly during the past thirty years.
This increase is due to the reduction in the mortality rate among persons under middle age, especially among infants and children, which has more than balanced the slower but consistent increase in the mortality rate of persons in middle and old age." (Recent Social Trends, p. 658) American people suffer annually from over 3,000,000 cases of communicable disease, perhaps one-half of which is unnecessary.
These diseases cause about 15% of the country's total deaths. And in addition, permanent disability handicaps many for life as a result of this unnecessary sickness. "From 50 to 75% of our crippled children owe their condition to infantile paralysis and tuberculosis. Blindness, damaged hearts and kidneys, and increased susceptibility to other infections follow in the wake of communicable diseases among children." (White House Conference Report.) The average age of man has extended from 49.1 in 1901 to 54.3 years in 1930. The added years are the result of successful efforts to control the most deadly of the communicable diseases and of improvements in modes and standards of living. No specific efforts have so far been as successful in controlling diseases
LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 peculiar to middle age and old age, or in postponing organic breakdowns that, although natural concomitants of the ageing process, are hastened by disease or undue strain. It is most probable that the causes for organic breakdown in middle and later life will be found in conditions of childhood and young adult life.
Attempts to evaluate the monetary cost of preventable sickness and death with its accompanying poverty and crime reveal figures which are appalling in the aggregate. Of far greater significance, however, is the loss that human beings suffer in not being able to enjoy the happiness of good health that should be the natural inheritance of every soul. True, it sounds almost too idealistic to imagine a society in which good health prevails for all, but it is a condition which one should not be afraid to picture, for it is one toward whose realization preventive medicine has already made marvelous strides. Certainly, it does no harm to try to build up an attitude of confidence that disease can be overcome. Rather, it is imperative to the betterment of health conditions. The great need of the day is a consistent educational program aimed at raising and maintaining popular support for sound control practices in preventing disease and the alloting of resources to specific treatment.
While our practicing physicians and surgeons are the ones upon whom we must rely primarily for treatment, it is quite necessary that social agencies see that professional medical service reaches many now being denied that privilege. It is to the best interests of the community to see that those people who need medical and surgical aid and who now go without that aid, receive the assistance even though it may be at public expense. The problem is one of local, county, state, and federal organization into a unified health program.
Public health clinics are being established throughout the country. And there is an increasing trend among _ industrial plants to provide employees with a complete medical service. For example, it is reported that "the United Steel Corporation alone, at the end of 1925, employed 233 company surgeons, physicians, and interns; 117 outside surgeons on a salary, 251 nurses, including those in training, 62 visiting nurses, and 40 sanitary inspectors." (United States Steel Corporation Bulletin, No. 11). The service is slowly being extended to the family of the worker as well as the employees. "Industrial medical service provides an application of the insurance principle without any substantial use of funds for the overhead cost of insurance. The average cost of the service in 447 plants in 1924 varied from $4.30 per person in large plants to $7.53 in small plants." (Recent Social Trends) The activities of the United States federal government in the preservation of health and prevention of disease is being gradually extended. In 1932-33 twenty-five agencies were included in the federal health program with a yearly budget of $13,130,261. The twenty-five bureaus and agencies included such institutions as the Public Health Service, the Children's Bureaus, and the Narcotics division, all of which are still existent. Likewise, the health department of state governments is being extended, and is doing more effective work in the control of communicable diseases. The average per capita expenditure in 48 states for the year, 1930, was 12 cents. But, county 

  and municipal health organizations, being closer to the daily lives of the people, have made probably the greatest advancements.
More fulltime health officers are maintained, and possible sources of health contamination are being eliminated.
Naturally the per-capita expenditure increases with every extension of service. A development of far greater significance is the fact that the operation of hospitals by federal, state, and local governments has been increasing in recent years, until in 1931, 73% of all hospital service was provided by public agencies. The cost of such service, from $1 to $2 per capita, is not burdensome because it is spread among all the people. But if the entire cost were placed on the individuals, probably it would be too great to be borne. (Recent Social Trends) Naturally our interest centers primarily in the possibilities of the future that our support may be intelligently placed.
Evidence seems to support the idea of an extension of government health service in the form of school health service, public health nursing, free distribution of serums, and other preventive products, treatment by competent physicians, and hospitalization at public expense or a reasonable fee. A case in point is the Province of Saskatchewan, Canada, where some thirty-two rural municipalities have employed physicians with tax funds who are available to all the people.
Without further cost.
Another trend is toward the organization of medical centers, both private and public, offering a complete medical service to individuals for a reasonable monthly payment. It is probable that if adequate medical service is made available to those families whose incomes are under $2,000 a year, additional financial aid must be given by some governmental agency. It is true, communities are realizing the great economic and social losses being annually sustained needlessly because of inadequate public health provision.
That a better solution must be reached is evident. As individuals in our several communities, it behooves us to support that scheme which best meets our needs. To the Latter-day Saints the teachings in the "Word of Wisdom," (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 89) point the way to a life filled with a full measure of happiness and a minimum amount of ill health. To all who follow its teachings will come a belief in the tangible values of good health, and they will find the way to its maintenance clearly marked. _ Activities 1.
Have some member of the class contact the nearest board of health to determine what preventive medicines and treatments may be furnished free, or at cost, to those who apply for the same. 2.
Determine the type of health service which is being furnished to youth by your local schools.
Wherein do parents fail to respond to the values of such service? 3. If accessible read pgs. 414-417 from the "Life of Louis Pasteur," by Rene Radot, in which will be found the story of the Alsatian boy, M. Pasteur's first case to receive his anti-toxin against rabies; and from "Microbe Hunters." by Paul de Kruif, Chapter XI for the story of the conquest of yellow fever, and Chapters III and V for sketches of Louis Pasteur and his work. A New Year to Spend!
None can hoard it?all must spend it.
Some will spend it wisely; others will throw it away in idleness.
Twelve months from now, what will your son or your daughter have to show for the investment? L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound a THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound.
SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES
The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers