[Vol54 | December | Magazine Page 887 | PDF Page 932]

--- PAGE 887 (PDF page 932) ---
The Wonderful Work of Women

prophets and all the General Authorities since then have spoken in this famous building, where our most popular Tabernacle Choir has sung for so many years to all the world.

Most of these women have come from cities and towns in which I have lived, from schools where I have taught many of them or their parents, from the branch, ward, or stake over which I have presided, and from the Province where I lived and represented them as a member of the Government. I am happy, too, that two of my daughters participated with these Singing Mothers. You see, therefore, that I feel very close to these sisters. I know somewhat of the miles they have traveled and the hours and days they have spent practicing, and the sacrifices that their families have made. I am sure I have enjoyed it and feel that they have gained much and feel good in the service they have rendered. I wish to congratulate them and wish them well. I do hope that they and their families whom they have left have not sacrificed too much and hope and pray and feel that they are all better for it.

I wish to congratulate Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen and express my personal appreciation to her for her great devotion, and for the tremendous contribution that she has made and is making all over the Church. I was in England and had the privilege of seeing the miracle she performed there in bringing women from all over the British Isles, as she did in Alberta, and made a chorus of Singing Mothers who gave concerts in some of

the finest halls in the great cities of England to audiences who were most enthusiastic in their praise.

It is a privilege and pleasure to bring you the greetings and blessings and a brief message from President David O. McKay, a prophet of God who is the mouthpiece of the Lord here upon the earth, under whose divine guidance he is directing this, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know of no one who is more keenly interested in the welfare of the women of the Church in the heavy responsibilities which are placed upon them as wives and mothers, as officers and teachers, and as humble servants of the Lord.

I was thrilled with the way you sang "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," with the feeling of thankfulness and devotion which you expressed. As I listened to the first verse of this great song, which I should like to repeat to you, I wondered if you realized just what you were singing.

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,
To guide us in these latter days;
We thank Thee for sending the Gospel
To lighten our minds with its rays;
We thank Thee for every blessing
Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand;
We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee,
And love to obey Thy command.

The message which our prophet has asked me to bring to you and to the Church as a whole, is one that I have had the honor of taking wherever I have gone. Many of you have heard me deliver it before. He has asked me to remind those people to remember who they are, and to act accordingly. Also, he has asked

887