[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 861 | PDF Page 902]

--- PAGE 861 (PDF page 902) ---
Lesson Department

sisted of praying, congregational singing, preaching, testimony bearing, and the dedication of the building by the reading of the prayer given by revelation. Following the prayer the congregation was led in the Hosanna Shout. An important part of the service was the approval of the General Authorities under the law of common consent. It was upon this occasion that the Prophet Joseph Smith asked the people to sustain the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. (DHC II:410-428.) Many spiritual manifestations were observed during the day.

SECTION 109

Section 109 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the dedicatory prayer for the Kirtland Temple, was received by revelation. (DHC II: 420.) Although this prayer was given for a special purpose, there are many elements in it which may assist members of the Church to understand the two following aspects of prayer: (1) prayer form; and (2) prayer content. It is understood that prayer should be appropriate to the occasion, and it should come from the heart. Particularly where members of the Church are called upon to offer public prayers in behalf of those assembled in meetings, there is suggested the need to use language which expresses the purpose of the prayer.

In a study of this dedicatory prayer, one should not consider that all things for which a person should pray are mentioned, because of the special purpose of this prayer. One can learn, however, many important points about prayer which may be bene-

ficial. This revelation is the model for the dedication of temples and other structures in the Church.

PRAYER CONTENT

Some members of the Church are concerned as to how they can keep their daily prayers from becoming formal and trite. If one prays for individual needs only, there is a reason for reviewing the many possibilities for which one might sincerely pray. Section 109 gives many of these points. Some of these elements are as follows: (1) purpose; (2) expression of gratitude; (3) remembrance of others; (4) protection and assistance; (5) forgiveness of sin; (6) the Church and the gospel.

Class Discussion

What is the proper prayer language?

PURPOSE

Frequently members of the Church who represent a group or congregation in giving the invocation, mention the purpose for which the meeting is being held. Sometimes reference is made to the faith and diligence of those present.

In the dedicatory prayer one reads a review of the events in the building of the Kirtland Temple. The fulfillment of the commandment to build the temple is mentioned (D&C 109:1-4) and the tribulations experienced amid poverty, "that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people" (Ibid., 109: 5). President Sidney Rigdon gave a two and one-half hour address during the service, the purpose of which was to compare the privations and hardships of the people in building the temple with that

861