[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 5 | PDF Page 46]

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 46) ---
SANDWICH SURPRISES

Joyce B. Bailey

Busy housewives call time and time again on the lowly sandwich to fill the gap at mealtime. Here are some sandwich ideas to make any husband, teenager, or child wish it were sandwich-time more often!

Broiled Supper Sandwiches:

CHICKEN-CHEESE CHARMERS

Place sliced cooked chicken on buttered toast. Sprinkle it with crumbled Roquefort cheese. Cover with strips of bacon (notched to prevent curling), and broil for about ten minutes, or until the bacon is crisp. For a special treat, place sliced tomatoes on the chicken before adding the cheese. This will be a family favorite.

PEANUT BUTTER AND TOMATO TOASTED

Toast slices of bread on one side. Spread the untoasted side with a mixture of peanut butter, chopped cooked bacon, and bacon drippings. Top with a thin slice of tomato sprinkled with ½ tsp. brown sugar. Place under the broiler for a few minutes, serve, and enjoy.

TUNA TUG BOATS

Cut tomatoes into thick slices and place on buttered toast. Season with salt and pepper and pinch of brown sugar. Drain and flake a 7 oz. can of tuna and combine with mayonnaise. Spread the tuna mixture on the tomatoes and sprinkle with grated sharp cheese. Broil until the cheese is melted and serve piping hot.

Lunch Box Treats:

CORNED BEEF SANDWICH

Combine ¼ c. sharp American cheese with 2 tbsp. mayonnaise. Add 4 oz. canned corn beef, shredded, and ¼ c. sour-sweet pickles, finely chopped, 1 tbsp. grated onion, and 2 tbsp. chopped celery. Season with salt, if needed, and spread on thick whole-wheat slices of bread with crisp lettuce.

CHICKEN SPECIALS

Spread whole-wheat or rye bread with cream cheese, softened with a little milk or cream. Add slices of cooked chicken, chopped green olives, and salt. Add crisp lettuce, and what a treat!

ITALIAN SUPER SALAD

Split a large French roll and spread the halves with mayonnaise. Place thick slices of tomato, a slice of salami, and two anchovies on one side. Top with crisp lettuce and the other half of the roll.

HAWAIIAN CLUB SANDWICH

This is always special, for guests or for the family. Prepare 3 slices of toast for each serving. Cover slice #1 with a lettuce leaf, 3 crisp slices of hot bacon, slices of tomato, mayonnaise, and a drained slice of canned pineapple. Place slice #2 on top and cover it with slices of cold turkey or chicken and mayonnaise. Place slice #3 on top and cut diagonally.

45