[Vol54 | December | Magazine Page 6 | PDF Page 51]

--- PAGE 6 (PDF page 51) ---
January 1967

"Then let me go with you," Betz kept on.
Julie shook her head.
"Aunt Cleo has your work planned. You have to watch the bread dough. When it rises, knead it down again. Let it rise the second time, then put it in the oven. Don't let it get too brown. In the meantime, scrub out the cooler with hot water and bicarbonate of soda. We'll have meat and things to store there."
"Is that all?" Betz flared out. "I'm just another Cinderella!"
"You have to pay a price for your Prince Charming," Julie said. "Life on a Ridgehaven property is no picnic, Betz. Remember, Grandfather warned you. Is it worth it?"

A little smile curved Betz' mouth. "It is!" she said. "Where is the scrub bucket?"
"Same place we keep the broom," Julie answered.
Carolyn Bridges came in as Betz went out. Her eyes had wonder in them.
"I can hardly believe it," she said, sitting on the edge of Julie's bunk. "Simply delighted. Your Aunt Isabelle is a different woman. I keep pinching myself to see if I'm really awake!"
"I know," Julie smiled. "I feel the same way. Did Dr. George tell you what he hopes has happened?"
"He wasn't very explicit in his wire," she answered. "But he did say it is either a regression or the results of cobalt treatments. We aren't ready to tell it yet. It will cause much comment."
"I haven't told a soul," Julie said. Then she added to herself: Maybe the prayers of the Ridge-

havens and Dr. George's love had something to do with it. But this idea was only for her secret heart.
"Guess I'm ready," she said, putting her rifle under her arm and slinging it down.
"Take care," Carolyn said. "I wonder if I'll ever outgrow being afraid of guns?"
"It's being used to them," Julie told her. "My father taught me to use a rifle before I was nine years old. We lived way out in the Dead Heart country. A rifle was part of our way of life. Now prepare Aunt Isabelle and all of you for a beaut dinner."
"I'll do that," Carolyn laughed, as she got to her feet. "We'll be ready for a beaut dinner."
Casey Jones leaped to his feet the minute he saw Julie and Cleo ready to leave. He whirled and whimpered, pawing at the door. Then he pulled at Julie's boots.
"We'll take him," Cleo said, flatly. "I've a hunch he can lead us to that dingo. We've got to get him. One dingo means murder for our sheep. You have your grandfather's rifle, so I'll take Geoffrey's. It's the very latest, newer than John's. Now let's check. We have our water bags filled, plenty of bullets, and extra petrol."
Aunt Isabelle came to the doorway, looking radiant in her sky-blue dressing gown.
She hugged each of them. "Good luck, dear ones," she said in her gentle, cultured voice.
Casey Jones settled down on the floor of the jeep, dozing contentedly for several miles.
Julie saw the fields of everlasting flowers before Cleo did. They were a rainbow of color and

50