[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 812 | PDF Page 853]

--- PAGE 812 (PDF page 853) ---
November 1967

ager and, later, when he may leave the home entirely, the realization of the possession of the Holy Spirit will comfort and bless him. He may recall his mother's teachings of the preservation of Wilford Woodruff's life many times through his instant obedience to the promptings of the Spirit. The man, the woman will have learned to obey the still, small voice which says, "Do this; do that"—"Don't do that."

This training of a child presupposes that a mother will have managed, in some way or another, if her family is large, to have received the confidences of each child alone each day. This will keep open the communication between them. Today, it may be what the schoolteacher said to the child before recess. In the years ahead it may be how a friend stole in a store, or began to smoke. Often having a child pray alone with the mother over a difficult situation may bring about a needed softened attitude.

And with it all, must be set an example for work, both mental and physical with the child working along with the mother. "Thou shalt not be idle" is a dictum of the Lord as is "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." Work is the great blessing and even in times of dire distress it will bring comfort and satisfaction.

As we read The Book of Mormon, we discover the feeling of hopelessness the righteous felt as wickedness prevailed. The Prophet Mormon, when only fifteen, was leading the Nephite armies, but unsuccessfully, because of their degradation and wickedness. He wrote, "But behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowing was not unto repentance, because of the goodness of God; but it was rather the sorrowing of the damned, because the Lord would not always suffer them to take happiness in sin" (Mormon 2:13).

As mothers today, we must not feel discouraged nor hopeless. We have been told that this gospel will not be given to another people, and we know that great spirits have been reserved to come forth in this day. Recently, a modern day prophet said that while conditions in the world grew worse, the Church would continue to carry on its work at the same time.

Instead, the mothers of the Church must rejoice, rejoice to be alive in these great last days, rejoice in the goodness of their sons and daughters whom they have reared in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.

May we all be that kind of a mother whose children have the only gift of security there is—the Church, I pray.

WITH CHIVALRY
Iris W. Schow

When bird and sun are moving south once more,
And equinoctial storms have come and gone,
The trees, like Raleigh, doff their brilliant coats
And lay them down for us to walk upon.

812