[Vol54 | December | Magazine Page 7 | PDF Page 52]

--- PAGE 7 (PDF page 52) ---
Tell Me of Love

beauty that stabbed her heart.
"Let's stop, Aunt Cleo," she coaxed. "Ron told me of these flowers in his last letter. I want a bouquet."
"So do I," Cleo said. "We pass Uncle Rufe's grave. I'd like to stop there and leave them on it."
Casey Jones stayed in the jeep while they picked armfuls of the

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with dark hair holding flowers]

flowers. He barked several times as though impatient at the delay, but when they returned he lay down contentedly again.
"Good kelpie," Julie crooned to him.
A few miles farther on, they stopped near the roadside and Cleo trudged through the dust and bush to a rock-covered grave with an elaborate bronze headstone. Julie could not read the inscription from where she sat in the jeep.
"He was the only parent I ever knew," Cleo said when she took the wheel again. "My parents died in a willie-willie. Uncle Rufe was kind, courageous, and the best sheepman in the country. He worked as boss of the shearing sheds for your grandfather for forty years. Every drover and every shearer in all this area wanted to work for him. I used to go with him at shearing time and

cook for the men. I met John at the station back there. One look between us, and we were lost to each other. John knew he couldn't consult his father about our marriage. He would have said no—that his son could not marry the station cook. So John and I went down to Perth and were married. Now we have been through the New Zealand Temple."
"What did your Uncle Rufe say?" Julie wanted to know.
"Very little," Cleo answered, her mouth twisting. "He knew it could mean his job with your grandfather. But he sat there in the kitchen that night that I told him and his eyes had a dreamy, faraway look as if he was thinking of someone I knew nothing about."
"If it means your happiness," he said, "then marry him. You'll be a fine wife. I'd say John Ridgehaven, Junior, is a lucky boy to have your love. That's all I'll ever say to his father. If he gives me the sack for that—well—there are other sheep ranches in Australia. He doesn't own them all. Not quite!"
"He didn't give Uncle Rufe the sack, and when he was killed in another willie-willie that hit out here five years ago, your grandfather came all the way from Sydney for the funeral. He brought that headstone you see engraved in bronze letters: 'Rufe Riley Quinn, for loyal and outstanding service'. Look, now we turn off at the next cattle guard. The sheep are out there about twenty miles."
"There it is!" Julie said a few seconds later.
When Cleo turned the jeep,

51