[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 869 | PDF Page 910]

--- PAGE 869 (PDF page 910) ---
who, likewise, are as beacon lights and inspiring, since their lives are oriented toward the good and the constructive. They have been willing to make whatever personal sacrifices were necessary in order to keep faith with their convictions.

Class Involvement

Following is a nonchronological, limited list of individuals. Some of them are world known, some regionally known or known only to members of the Church. Relate these individuals and their lives to your definition of integrity.

(To class leader: Select one or two of these for full class discussion. Enumerate all those listed as a mental review of familiar outstanding individuals, or list the names upon the chalkboard.)

Abraham (Old Testament prophet who left his home in Ur of the Chaldees, to go into an unknown, foreign land, in obedience to a divine directive. He experienced famine and other trials, even to the testing of his faith when commanded by the Lord to offer his son Isaac in sacrifice.)

Joseph Smith (Latter-day Prophet whose mortal life was filled with persecution and hardship as a result of his spiritual experiences. His life culminated in a martyr's death.)

Martin Luther (German theologian and religious reformer (1483-1546) whose protest against certain practices and principles of Catholicism helped father the Reformation.)

Joan of Arc (peasant maid of Orleans (1412-1431) who led the French army to victory in the early 15th century. She chose death at the stake rather than to recant her words or relinquish her beliefs.)

Madame Curie (1867-1934) (Polish wife of the French physicist whose experimentation resulted in the isolation of radium. Of her effort she said that she would not cease to work for it as long as she lived.)

Mahatma Gandhi (modern patriot leader (1864-1948) in India who gave his life for his belief in the

principle of victory through non-violence.)

George Washington (first President (1732-1799) of the United States, patriot soldier, dedicated to the principle of personal and national honor.)

Simon Bolivar (a Venezuelan statesman and patriot (1783-1830), leader of revolt of South American colonies from Spanish rule.)

Florence Nightingale (English nurse (1820-1910), reformer of hospital nursing. Her devotion to the wounded in the Crimean war won her the name "Lady with the lamp.")

Albert Schweitzer (French Franco-German doctor missionary (1875-1965), who spent his adult years serving the underprivileged natives of Africa.)

Mary Fielding Smith (1801-1852) wife of Hyrum Smith who was martyred with the Prophet at Carthage jail, Illinois. She is representative of a Mormon mother who met hardship and persecution in Missouri and Nauvoo, and who made the trek across the plains to the West with courage and great faith.)

(To class leader: Other persons may be discussed who have application to a particular country, in lieu of the individuals listed.)

INTEGRITY VERSUS MATERIALISM

The question, "How important are material possessions to one's life?" brings to mind the life and words of the American naturalist-author, Henry David Thoreau. Integrity speaks out boldly in his writings, for Thoreau believed strongly in the integrity of mind and of the spirit. He felt that far too much emphasis is placed upon material things, turning luxuries into necessities. He said we should simplify our lives to make room and time for living. In his book Walden, Thoreau states that the only wealth is life, and the only luxury worth coveting, is the luxury of integrity. (The

869