[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 180 | PDF Page 185]

--- PAGE 180 (PDF page 185) ---
March 1967

she had been about to say would have been unladylike. But she had said enough.

When the music stopped, Ben continued the conversation just as though there had been no interruption.

"You always seemed to be having such a good time with Bott that I felt I had no right to intervene. But he isn't here tonight and I'm staking a claim."

She raised her brown eyes to his and was almost startled with the clear blue intensity of them. She felt the seriousness of his mood, and from that moment she was sure that one day he would ask her to marry him.

It was then that a thought which had been nagging at her from the back of her mind began to push itself forward. It was a thought of which she could not be particularly proud, still it persisted. Sometimes her nobler self would have pushed it aside, but her more practical nature insisted on bringing it back. Granville Bott had a stove. Cath had never actually seen it, knowing from the camp talk that it was there in his wagon.

Granville had traveled alone. Once when there had been some sickness in camp, Cath had heard the Captain of Ten ask him whether he could take a passenger in his wagon. His answer had been short and not to the point.

"There's no room, Captain. You can see for yourself. I'm full up."

Later that afternoon, Bishop Miller left a fine bureau standing on the plains, which left room for elderly Sister Abbott to lie down near the back of the wagon as they continued the journey.

The thought was there, and unwelcome as it was to her more noble self, it kept recurring. The girl who married Granville Bott would never have to contend with troublesome fireplace cooking.

That winter proved to be the most enjoyable in all of Catherine York's young life. There were parties and dances and plays. There was either Granville or Ben, and sometimes both, eager to escort her. Neither spoke of marriage, but to each it seemed a time of wooing, not disagreeing the thought.

When each man began to build a house, Catherine was quite aware of it, just as she was aware of the differences in the houses.

She walked past Granville's once or twice since it was close to town, east on Brigham Street. He was hiring most of the labor done and she felt it unlikely that she would meet him. It would be a beautiful house, two-story with gingerbread trim, one of which anyone in Boston could have been proud.

Ben's was farther out to the south on his piece of farm land that he had received in the drawing. Catherine had seen it only once, when the first logs had been put in place. It would be a cabin; two rooms, but, still, it was a cabin.

As springtime came she saw less and less of Ben. He was busy clearing his land and plowing and planting.

"I'm working long hours, Cath," he had said. "After getting the land cleared, I'll be late in planting as it is, and I must have a harvest. When it comes I'll be in a position to speak."

176