[Vol54 | August | Magazine Page 7 | PDF Page 36]

--- PAGE 7 (PDF page 36) ---
hospitals, both to heal the body and the mind, assistance to women while in prison and after release, youth guidance work, detention homes, parent-teacher associations, to name a few. In different countries different names are given, but the work is basically the same. While these services are generally manned by salaried personnel, of necessity, for trained guidance and continuity, the success, extent, and effectiveness of the programs are dependent, in large measure, upon the good offices of volunteers. It is the people to people work which humanizes the proffered service and helps to accomplish its purposes.

As a Latter-day Saint woman becomes a mother, her time and duties are centered primarily in the home with her husband and children, but a mother who gave service to some worthwhile cause before marriage, will have become conscious of her own involvement with the community, and, in all probability, set aside time to engage as a volunteer, especially in programs which touch her children and community.

Relief Society members are trained to give service. They are trained to act upon the words given Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith "to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life." They know that they do not live on an island.

Then, when the children leave the home, the wife and mother, once again, can offer her volunteer services to that cause to which her training and interests lead her. As a member of the Church, she makes friends of others outside her own neighborhood. She further broadens her outlook on life, and may be an example to others through her dedication to service and her love for others.

There is an urgent need, at this time, for volunteers in the hospitals, for volunteers in strengthening the Church's specialized social services, and for other programs mentioned.

The great commandment is to love one's neighbor as oneself. One's neighbor may live next door or miles away. Volunteer service is soul-satisfying. Dedication to a worthwhile cause helps one to be about one's Father's business.
                                                                                    —M. C. S.

35