[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 9 | PDF Page 14]

--- PAGE 9 (PDF page 14) ---
The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom

sealed in celestial wedlock, may have eternal increase in the world to come. Woman is the homemaker in her own home, and an exemplar to her posterity in the generations that succeeded her. Woman is a helpmate to her husband and to render him more perfect than he otherwise would be. Woman's influence can bless a community or a nation to that extent to which she develops her spiritual powers in harmony with the heaven-sent gift which she has been by nature endowed. If she does not forfeit her priceless heritage by her own willful negligence, she can be largely instrumental in safeguarding democracy and downing a would-be tyrant. Year in and year out, she may cast the aura of her calming and refining influence to make certain that her posterity will enjoy the opportunities to develop to their fullest potential their spiritual and physical natures.

Now this is a rather sensitive thing that I shall close with. We had one in high station in government circles who has made a suggestion which was highly applauded, according to a great educator whose words I'm going to quote. It made the suggestion that all young persons in this country, boys and girls, perhaps, should be required, whether in peace or war, to give a year or two of their lives in some kind of national service. Then this wise educator said this. Now don't you quote me as saying this, but you say that I said, he said that:

There are a lot of folks who think that it is just as vital for a young Los Angeles woman to get married and rear a family with respect to law and rights of men as it is for another young woman to work in a poverty program of some sort. The young engineers who develop techniques in our industry are as important to the strength of this country as the special assistants who inhabit the big Federal agencies. There are weeks in this city, in fact, when after a plethora of conferences and meetings, such as the recent one on the status of women, the residents would gladly barter half a dozen status officials for one mother who wants more than anything to bring love and beauty into the lives of her children, or they would trade a whole conference in Washington for one grandfather who would round up the neighborhood children and take them on a hike. (DR. MAX RAFFERTY, California State Superintendent of Public Instruction.)

Now that's, unquote, all of that I quote for you to think about.

So I close with a prayer, God render our wives, our sweethearts, our mothers ever more perfect in order to hold the bearers of the Priesthood, under their influence, to a truer course of happiness here and eternal joy in the world to come, for which I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

13