[Vol54 | July | Magazine Page 546 | PDF Page 571]

--- PAGE 546 (PDF page 571) ---
July 1967

longs to the three children, and she cannot sell without extended court procedures. An administrator must be appointed and the property appraised by special court appraisers. Even then, Sue may not touch the money from the sale without a court order each time she finds it necessary to make some expenditure.

Illustration B:
Mark and Joan have been married for fifteen years, but they have no children. They have considerable property, including a home which is listed under Joan's name. An accident takes Joan's life, and, when Mark attempts to dispose of the house, he finds that because his wife had made no will he is not the sole owner. Joan's father, who had bitterly opposed their marriage and who had been estranged from them throughout their married life, is, according to probate law, owner of the house and of the stocks and bonds which Mark had bought with his savings and placed in Joan's name for her protection.

Illustration C:
A single woman married an older man who had a grown family by his first wife. He owned a house in combination with a store which was their sole means of livelihood. He died intestate (without a will) and she continued to run the store for a period of three months, after which a son by his first marriage had himself appointed administrator of the estate.

She was forced, finally, to buy out the two-thirds interest which had, by law, gone to the children of his first marriage. Her husband's intent had been that all his property should go to his second wife for her use during her lifetime, but, with no will, this was not possible.

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS

1. No one should attempt to draw his own will without legal advice. A lawyer's fee for this service is not large, and legal knowledge is required in the making of a will. Your will is perhaps the most important document you will ever make or sign; failure to comply with the formalities which the law prescribes may invalidate your will and leave your intentions unfulfilled.

2. A will, unlike a deed or a contract, can be revoked when desired or when necessary. A will does not become permanent until death. If you enter into a contract, you may be subject to a lawsuit if you attempt to make any changes at all. A will, however, can be changed as often as you desire.

3. A will should be examined periodically to determine whether any changes are necessary or advisable. Changing conditions make it imperative that a will be reviewed at least once a year.

4. Your will should be kept in a safe place where it is available without delay. Either your bank or your lawyer will provide safekeeping for this valuable document.

FOR THIS I HAVE WEPT
Peggy Tangren

For this I have wept—for a single flower
Dying before parturition hour
Of ripened seed. Its promised worth
Denied a somber yearning earth,
Willing no blossom to a flowerless plain,
Gone forever for the want of rain.
With oceans, lakes, and rivers, still
Beauty can die on a thirsty hill.

546