[Vol54 | August | Magazine Page 10 | PDF Page 39]

--- PAGE 10 (PDF page 39) ---
Christmas
Begins With
a Tree

Marilyn McMeen Miller

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a Christmas tree on the left, and three figures (appears to be two children and an adult) on the right]

■ After the last string of children had skipped out into the cloak hall, gathering boots and mittens on the final strains of "Jolly Old Saint Nicolas," and the tinsel and nutshells and ribbon from the party had been swept into the baskets, everything seemed to be desperately quiet. As Miss Gold fumbled into her hat and coat, she felt tears stinging her eyes. She imagined these children going to their homes and she ached to follow them. But she saw herself cramped in her musty apartment correcting notebooks —both from her own classes and from the classes of Miss Pool who had been ill for so many days.

More at Christmas than at other times, Miss Gold reflected, life had seemed to pass her by. A boy she once loved had been killed in an automobile accident. Through the years no one else had seemed to want her for his wife. Last year her mother had died, joining her father, who had passed away many years before.

Miss Gold pulled on her gloves and jostled the stacks of papers under her arms. If only she had not promised Roberta Pool she would help her with the tedious notebooks. It seemed an extra burden just when her heart should be light and beating in time with "Jingle Bells" and "Deck the Halls With Boughs of Holly."

From the second story window of her apartment, Miss Gold saw the lights of the city sparkling far off over the hill. She stamped off her galoshes, turned up the radiator, and rubbed her hands.

There was surely some way to make Christmas possible to bear this year. Finding it was the problem. She might take in a show—she might dine at the Lantern, her favorite place to eat. But then she was tired of always going alone. There was her new ward. She recalled they were planning some kind of MIA party. But there were no single people her age. She was almost forty. No one was really interested in a wornout schoolteacher. She shuddered to realize that the years had crept up on her this way. She brushed a shock of hair from her eyes and felt the dry

38