[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 11 | PDF Page 16]

--- PAGE 11 (PDF page 16) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH: Black and white aerial view of a large outdoor gathering with crowds of people seated around a central area with speakers at a podium]

Courtesy, Salt Lake Tribune

Services at the Completion of The Relief Society Memorial Campanile, September 29, 1966

Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, offering prayer at the podium; President Hugh B. Brown, of the First Presidency, seated, fifth from the right behind the podium; Elder S. Dilworth Young, of the First Council of Seventy, seated in front of the podium third from the right. General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford seated seventh from the left behind the podium.

We feel that it is peculiarly fitting that the Relief Society should sponsor this project because one of the reasons for the organization of our Society in Nauvoo was to enable the Latter-day Saint women more efficiently to do their part in feeding and clothing the men who were working on the Temple where the bell originally hung.

There is still another tie connecting us with the bell. In the same pioneer company which transported this valuable relic to the West came Eliza R. Snow. . . . and safe in her keeping, in the covered wagon that lumbered over the plains, were the precious minutes of our founding meeting.

Sister Lyman was enthusiastic over the erection of a permanent Centennial memorial, not alone in recognition of a highly signif-

icant event in the history of the Church—the founding of Relief Society—but in recognition of the lofty position accorded women in the restored gospel. She responded warmly to the idea of a Campanile for the Nauvoo Temple bell, for she knew the ties that bound Relief Society to this historic vessel.

The First Presidency — President Heber J. Grant, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay — gave the General Board "not only their permission but their enthusiastic encouragement" to go forward with the erection of the bell tower on Temple Square. Accord-

15