[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 182 | PDF Page 187]

--- PAGE 182 (PDF page 187) ---
March 1967

work goes forward on my house."
As he spoke, Granville reached out one hand and placed it casually and yet possessively on Catherine's shoulder.
"As you say," Ben answered. He nodded slightly to Granville and lifted his hat to Cath in farewell, as he turned the work horse and headed back in the direction of his own place.

DURING the following weeks Cath remembered Ben's eyes, watching, as Granville held her shoulder, knowing that she had given the impression of agreeing with his action. She wished she had drawn away; she wished she had spoken up and said—something—anything to indicate that she did not belong to Granville; she wished. . . . She was not sure just what she did wish, particularly at those times when she rode with him past the big house on Brigham Street. Then, one afternoon in early September, he drew the team to a halt and together they entered the door, Catherine York and Granville Bott.

Inside, the house was more beautiful than Cath had ever imagined. The floors and woodwork were beautiful, surpassing even Judge Andrews' home in Boston. And in the kitchen, there it was! That marvelous, wonderful, scarce item, the kitchen range.

"How will you like it here, Cath, having this whole big house to ourselves, after being cooped up with the Millers?"

Catherine was imagining herself taking golden-crusted pies from the bake oven as she heard his question. The vision disappeared abruptly. Why, he had not even bothered to propose, simply assuming that neither she nor any girl could think of refusing him. Suddenly her indecision of the past was gone. She faced him squarely, positive now that the warmth of a home does not come from the fire in a kitchen range.

"I am not moving into this house, Granville. I like living at the Miller's. No, you needn't come with me. I'm going to enjoy every step of the walk back."

Cath turned and left the kitchen without even glancing at the stove, closing the door quickly behind her.

The following afternoon Sister Miller prepared a big basket of lunch and asked Catherine to accompany her in taking it to the bishop. Not until they had ridden almost out of the city did Catherine learn that they were headed for the Shepherd farm.

"Ben was gone so long, taking those provisions to the newcomers that his quorum members began to fear his grain would threaten out on the ground. George says he never saw such grain. The men have been harvesting it all this week, and he thought they would finish this afternoon. Ben didn't get home until yesterday."

Sister Miller slapped the line against the side of the brown horse to make him step up with the gray. As the horse jumped a bit forward, Cath felt her heart give a resounding thump. Ben was home! In a short few minutes she would see him. She reached a hand to her hair, smoothing it under the brim of her sunbonnet.

Ben was there, standing in front of his cabin. He greeted both women, then tied the team

178