[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 839 | PDF Page 880]

--- PAGE 839 (PDF page 880) ---
A Miracle at Christmas

and give me a hand with the cookies."

"Are these to hang on our tree, Mama? Did Daddy get it today?"

Mama silently steered me into the bedroom.

Later, as we finished the little fat cookie men, I reminded her again of our tree.

"Well, sister, would you really mind this year if Daddy couldn't get one? Couldn't we have just as nice a time without one?"

Not a tree! Why even the Coney's had theirs. Arguing did no good, so I decided to ask Daddy about it.

When he came in that night, he smiled and reassured me, saying, "We've never let you kiddies down yet, have we?"

That was true, and enough to satisfy me, so I was content to wait. And besides, tonight we were putting up the homemade fireplace Daddy had built for our stockings. Such a thrill it was to see it resplendent in its fireback paper and sparks almost ready to fly from its red tissue paper firebox.

The time passed quickly, with all the cleaning to do, paper chains to hang, and decorations to make. Then Christmas Eve shadows began to gather as the excitement of a hallowed night. Anxiously, our young eyes pried at the door until Daddy finally came home from work. But his big arms were empty . . . not even a pine branch! Tears stung my eyes and disappointment overwhelmed me. It just couldn't be!

Mama's piano "Jingle Bells" brought all my little brothers trooping into the living room for Home Evening. Slowly, I followed and longingly I looked at the empty corner. How could Daddy let us down? Didn't he know how much it mattered?

Somehow the evening passed, the long brown stockings were hung, prayers softly said, and Mama tucked us into bed. Strains of "Silent Night" floated from the piano and flickering shadows from the red tapers lulled us. I sadly comforted myself thinking about Jesus and how he never had a tree. "Sleep in heavenly peace," sang Mama, and I did.

Excited shouts from my little brothers suddenly awakened me. As I flew out of bed onto the cold, slick linoleum, I could hear them crying, "Oh, Weezie, come here quick! Look at our tree! We have a Christmas tree, and it's right on our table."

I stood speechless with wonder and delight. There, indeed, stood a lovely tree, and presents were heaped under fragrant branches. Our Father had not let us down! Such joy and excitement as we gazed and marveled at the miracle.

Little did we realize then that this miracle at Christmas was our father's own creation, fashioned with hands of love late on that Christmas Eve. One of the teachers, upon hearing of our indigent circumstances, had kindly offered him the branches trimmed from that tall tree at school. After drilling holes in a small pole, he had carefully fitted and nailed each branch into place, and a tree was born. That tree, when viewed through the eyes of love and faith, became the most beautiful, unforgettable tree in all this world to four small children on a prairie many years ago.

839