[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 868 | PDF Page 909]

--- PAGE 868 (PDF page 909) ---
November 1967

SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World

Lesson 5—Do I Live What I Say?
Alberta H. Christensen

(Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68)

Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1968
Southern Hemisphere: July 1968

Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that integrity is essential to all rewarding human relationships.

INTRODUCTION

The word "integrity" may mean many things to many people. What do you mean when you say, "I am impressed by Sister R.'s integrity" or when you say, "Brother B. hasn't much money, but he is a man of unusual integrity" or "Mr. T. has talent but, somehow, I always doubt his integrity"?

This lesson will develop ideas associated with similar questions, commenting upon their relevancy to rewarding human relationships. (Class leaders should develop more fully those areas which have greater interest and application for their particular group.)

Class Involvement

In Webster's Unabridged Dictionary (1966) and the International Thesaurus, we find many words related in meaning to the character quality of integrity. Among them are the following:

rectitude        honor
uprightness      adherence to
honesty          principle
moral strength   probity

steadfastness    sincerity
trustworthiness  truth-speaking
dependability    truth-living

Question

1. Which of the forelisted related words most nearly meet your definition of integrity?

2. Would a number of individuals whom you feel evidence integrity be characterized by one word, or phrase, or is integrity more comprehensive in your mind? Discuss very briefly.

THE GOOD AND THE WISE

Fortunately, many individuals live and have lived abundantly as to moral principle and constructive service. They are the good and the wise who, through righteous beliefs and by adherence to those beliefs, stand out in bold relief against a background of mediocrity. Some of these individuals seem to be inherently attuned to the infinite. They accept divine direction readily and spiritual values are, at all times, paramount to the temporal concerns of their lives. Of such are the prophets throughout the ages.

There are other individuals

868