[Vol54 | May | Magazine Page 394 | PDF Page 411]

--- PAGE 394 (PDF page 411) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with short hair wearing a dress and pearl necklace, holding a book and gesturing with one hand]

HOMEMAKING
Development Through
Homemaking Education

Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen
Discussion III—Summer Months Sewing Course

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1967
Southern Hemisphere: January 1968

Objective: To realize the importance that correct hemming procedures have
in achieving a quality looking garment.

INTRODUCTION

Regardless of what fashion dictates, the exact level of the hemline should be determined by whatever is most becoming to the individual and is reasonably harmonious with current styles.

The importance of a goodlooking hem cannot be overemphasized. Therefore, a quality, standard-looking hem:

1. Is inconspicuous from the right side.
2. Is uniform in depth, and neat on the wrong side.
3. Is wide enough to provide enough weight so it will hang well.
4. Is an even distance from the floor.
5. Is stitched approximately ½" apart (except rolled hem), with stitches being uniformly spaced, loose, and inconspicuous.
6. Is smooth and flat.
7. Is free from pleats and tucks in a circular hem, thus having extra fullness controlled by easing and shrinking.
8. Is free from over-pressing, and pressed with correct grain direction.
9. Is hemmed using the appropriate finish for the fabric and garment style.

General Procedures in Preparing Hems

1. Mark hem, placing pins or chalk marks about 3" apart on the desired hemline.
2. Turn up hem on marked hemline, and press fold lightly.
3. Measure desired depth from fold. Trim off excess fabric.
4. Eliminate bulk at seams by trimming off about ¼" from seam allowances between marked hemline and cut edge.
5. Dispose of fullness in gored or circular cut garments.
6. Determine the appropriate hem finish.
7. Pin hem flat (except for roll hem), placing pins at right angles to hem; sew, using either flat hemming where edge of hem is stitched flat to the garment, or invisible hemming

394