[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 131 | PDF Page 136]

--- PAGE 131 (PDF page 136) ---
All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Shelley Stake (Idaho) Flower Show and Cooked Foods Sales
August 2, 1966

Helen L. Hanson, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, reports: "An audience of nearly 900 enjoyed an evening of cultural refinement, when Shelley Stake Relief Society presented a delightful Singing Mothers concert, followed by a combined flower show and cooked foods sale. 'Reflections in Music,' conducted by Sharlene S. Eaton and accompanied by Muriel F. Clark and Laree O. Hammer, depicted the choice moments in a lifetime from infancy to the golden years of spirituality. The same theme was brought beautifully into focus in the cultural hall by a revolving seven-foot high, glittering treble clef and staff atop a satin-covered table grouped among other beautiful decorated tables, enchanced by gladioli, grape clusters, dainty ceramics, figurines, and a most perfect rose.

"Talents and efforts of many were displayed through unique and beautiful floral arrangements placed on tiered tables, and throughout the hall among the booths. Then, on the enticing food tables, were such titles as 'The Good Ship Lollipop,' 'Blackbirds Baked in a Pie,' and decorated to capture attention and urge everyone to buy the tempting foods.

"The class displays were exhibited under 'Relief Society—Key to Harmonious Living.' We felt that the event was a great success culturally and financially, as well as being a missionary tool, for we had two nonmembers singing with us, as well as many nonmembers in the audience."

131