[Vol54 | November | Magazine Page 811 | PDF Page 852]

--- PAGE 811 (PDF page 852) ---
**Security Amid Change**

Constitution as "a mudbank left by the receding tides of history" and said that it was left from the "era of the ox-drawn sledge."

A Latter-day Saint knows that divine laws never change, the only change is the conduct of God's children toward the laws, their disobedience to God's laws. Edicts against promiscuity, the use of certain substances, and civil disobedience, among others, have been and will always be in force.

As mothers, we need to bulwark our children against these prevalent, loose and wicked thoughts and actions. We must be on the watchtower in our homes twenty-four hours a day. We must constantly pray for guidance and seek the counsel of the Priesthood in our efforts.

With all that a mother must do, it would seem that each child should feel accepted and loved and secure in the love that his parents feel for each other and for him. It is an arduous task for a mother to maintain a loving attitude in spite of irritations and worries which come inevitably. One mother preserves her loving calmness through snatching just a few minutes to read a few verses of scripture. She says there is nothing which calms her feelings and changes her attitudes so quickly as this does. As the children have grown older and noticed her reading, it has caused the scriptures to take on greater significance in their daily living.

President George Albert Smith once said in a talk, "There is no happiness worthy of the name that does not come as a result of obedience to a loving Father who has said to us 'This is the pathway, walk ye in it. . . .' There is

safety for us only on the Lord's side of the line" (The Handbook of the Restoration, page 601). A child reared in a loving home easily learns that Heavenly Father loves him even more than his earthly parents do, and accepts the fact that the Father's laws have only his eternal happiness in view. All too frequently are blazoned the results of disobedience for one who stepped over into Satan's territory, on his side of the line. This comparison has meaning in the child's world. It helps also for a mother to confide about an example in her own life when she nearly became disobedient and almost stepped into the devil's territory, and how thankful she is that she resisted. Of the time when she wanted to go to a movie at night and rebelliously stayed home only to learn the next morning that the roof had collapsed from the weight of snow and killed most of the audience.

**A** testimony that Jesus is the Christ is the supreme gift a mother would strive, above all, to have her child possess. From the time he is a babe in arms she can sing to him of Jesus and train him while a lisping child to kneel at her side and pray to Him. The love the child will feel for the Savior will be a potent force in helping her to teach him the meaning of repentance for his childish misdeeds. The knowledge of Jesus' love and joy when the child does right, will help him to tell the truth and be honest.

As a child approaches baptism, a mother should have taught him the meaning of it and the great gift he will receive of the Holy Ghost. When he becomes a teen-

811