[Vol54 | February | Magazine Page 1 | PDF Page 6]

--- PAGE 1 (PDF page 6) ---
The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom

ford. I thought you would be interested to know.

I want to say to you that those of us who work closely with Sister Spafford and these counselors in welfare work, for more than thirty years as a matter of fact; Beehive Clothing Mills with the intricacies and the problems which you all know are tremendous as you meet the problems out in your wards and stakes; with the Correlation Committee and the Advisory Board, which includes the heads of all auxiliaries and the Priesthood; and now as Adviser to Relief Society; and besides having the opportunity to have traversed some of the territory where President Spafford has gone and meeting women of renown from all countries, I want to say to you with all sincerity and with no attempt to "gild the lily," that I think we have had few women among us who have attained the world-wide stature and is so recognized as a power for good among the women of the earth as we have today in Sister Belle S. Spafford. If you knew what I know you'd know that I wasn't overshooting the mark by that statement.

I have been asked to speak on a particular subject, broad enough, I'm sure, that a series of talks would not be sufficient to exhaust the possibilities—"The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom." So I shall narrow what I say about this subject under four different headings, and then make a few conclusions so that, if you care to, you can bring it all together and add to it as many others as you wish.

The Lord declares what his work and glory is. To Moses, he said,

"For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39).

Since that profound declaration of Mother Eve in the Garden of Eden after the Fall, the exalted place of women in the plan of salvation was clearly defined.

These words that I will quote to you now are said by students of the scriptures to be the greatest short sermon ever delivered, delivered by a woman. Now note what she says:

... Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient (Moses 5:11).

Lehi explains and amplifies what Mother Eve said, when, apparently, his son Jacob asked for an explanation of the Fall and why evil was permitted in the world. Lehi made this explanation:

And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden. And all things which were created must have remained in the same state in which they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever, and had no end.

And they would have had no children; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery: doing no good, for they knew no sin.

But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things.

Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy (2 Nephi 2:22-25).

5