WRITTEN BY SUSA YOUNG GATES.

	'Tis evening! In the deepening sky the tiny
clouds drift slow. Each pearly bank, lit up with
beams of light fast fading, show gold and opal
tints. The birds, with mellow notes, trill soft
goodnights, and gently shake their plumage
down to go to rest. The lengthening sounds
glide sweetly to mine ear, and tell of all the day
has done. The Morn arose with breezy breath,
and called the world her own. With eager
hands she grasped the time and mourned the
hours that flew. The Noon with slower steps
moved down the hill and gathered up the mo-
ments, enriching them with labors done. But
now the Evening comes; with quiet placid power
she takes the day, and in her full embrace each
hill and sweeping glade is clothed in loveliness.
The moments, with their rich rewards, come
hastening on to lay them down at her dear feet.
The Morn was fair, the Noon was clear, but
Evening's gentle hand is pressed to running o'er
with promises fulfilled; with hopes grown into
certainties; with pains soothed down to peace,
with fruits of time and love.
		*		*		*		*		*		*
	The Autumn sits with crown of sheaves upon
her yearly throne. Sweet flowers laid there by
loving hands around her bosom twine; and at
her feet are heaped the fruits of many useful
days; her raiments wrought of purest gold spun
out by conquered pride; and in her hands the
staff of truth points to the narrow way. Her
feet are treading out the wine of children's grate-
ful love; her heart's a lake, where all that's good
may gaze and find their image there. Sweet
Spring! Dear Summer! Your seasons bring us
joy, but Autumn's sweet, full tones chant in
our ears the dearest sounds the year can give to
us.
	A maiden in the morn of life, with fairest
dreams and hopes, is sweet as springtime flow-
ers; we feel her beauty in our soul, but fear
and tremble as we look. The summer's glow,
the noontide's heat in life, is full of care, and
but a little of the wealth that's earned is given.
But when the Evening, with its song and pur-
ple shades—the autumn, with its crown of
years—have come, we bring our blessings.
	To-night we hail our Evening star, our Au-
tumn Queen, with joyous acclamations. She
hath shed her light o'er all this people; and na-
tions yet unborn will bask in the sweet sun-
shine of her songs, her deeds, the records of her
life. The pioneer of women in the latter day
is she. Old England's proud of their First Lady;
we of ours are far more justly proud, for she
will be a Queen through all Eternity, and God
Himself will crown her. Her monument will
be upreared in woman's heart, and children will
look back to her as she who, by the grace of
God first gave them their dear Primaries.


We love thee—E. R. Snow! The magic name
—I hear it whispered by the wind, and children's
voices catch the sound and sing it high and free.
The hearts of thousands stir and murmur out a
prayer. Old hands are held to Heaven to call
down years upon her life, and little babies coo
the song of love they cannot speak. All join
our anthem as we pray—God bless thee, E. R.
Snow.
	St. George, Jan. 21, 1881.


