A SONG IN THE NIGHT.

So long is the night, and the tempest is fearful;
	The landscape is covered with winter's own pall;
Ah! is it the earth, that so blooming and cheerful,
	In the spring, in the summer, enlivened us all?
Oh, yes, 'tis the same, though bereft of its brightness—
	Though the darkness hath jealously covered its face—
Yet the sun in the morning shall smile on its whiteness,
	And spring shall restore to it beauty and grace.
And lo! in the clouds is a star brightly gleaming,
	Its ray through the darkness is cheering to see;
Look upward for light! is its infinite seeming—
	It tells us, O Father, our hopes are in Thee!

So long is the night, Lord, vouchsafe me this, only
	E'en the spirit of song, as to David of old;
"My soul is cast down, 'tis disquieted," surely
	Thou wilt not this blessing, this comfort withold;
For the gloom of adversity gathers around me,
	And Thou art my star, shining forth through the cloud;
If I seek not thy Spirit, Thy peace, to surround me,
	The blackness of night doth my being enshroud.
Put a song in my mouth, let me sing of Thy glory,
	Of Thy mercy, that many may comforted be;
And behold, mine own pathway 'twill brighten before
		me,
	And thus I shall know I'm accepted of Thee.
'Tis even to-night that I truly desire Thee,
	I am patiently waiting Thy kindness to prove,
"Tis the living, O Lord, 'tis the living must praise Thee,
	The dead cannot sing of Thy mercy and love!"
Thy light in the darkness my spirit would see,
	And thus would I sing that our hopes are in Thee!

Do I doubt Thee, my Father? Ah, no; but the spirit
	Of man is depressed, by the body so frail;
Oft, while Hope is exultant, lo! Darkness is present,
	And because of our weakness, Despair would prevail;
But e'en "as a Father, his children doth pity,"
	Thou dost amply allow for mortality's cares;
Thou seest Thy children in hamlet or city,
	And hearest in kindness their wants and their prayers,
Thought each soul's but a speck on life's limitless ocean,
	A drop in humanity's measureless tide;
Yet Thou knowest our thoughts, yea, our every emotion,
	And all who will seek Thee can make Thee their guide.
Great Father! Thy bounty unbounded must be,
	And because of Thy mercies, our hopes are in Thee.

And oh! what is man, that Thou thus should'st regard
		us?
	Oh, what are we, Lord, that Thou even should'st deign
To hear our petitions, to guide us, to guard us,
	To soothe us in sorrow, to help us in pain?
In the dust, at Thy feet, will I even adore Thee,
	My Father, my Father! "the Gnide of my youth!"
Though I stumble and stray, yet Thou still dost restore
		me,
	Dost give me to drink from the fountains of Truth;
Oh, give it me always, whate'er, Thou withholdest,
	Vouchsafe me "the Bread and the Waters of Life."
By the strength of Thine arm still support and enfold
		us,
	And calm we shall be in a tempest of strife;
The soul Thou sustainest to fear is a stranger;
	Yea, Death he can face, on the land and the sea.
Thou art watchful to shield us in darkness and danger,
	When Thou knowest, O Father, our hopes are in Thee!

Ah! what, tho' the honest are grieved in their spirit?
	Ah! what, tho' the trusting are tried from their youth?
Ah! what, tho' it seems they are born to inherit
	Misfortune? 'Twill yet be their triumph in truth.
Though e'en the affections we purely have cherished
	Are crushed, like the roses whose breath we distill,
And the hopes we have fostered, that yet they might
		flourish,
	Pride bids us uproot, by an effort of will;
Though "the billows" encompass us, fiercer by far
	Than e'er seemed the ocean when lashed into foam,
Shall we passively drift to the "gulf of despair?"

[Column 2]
	Or think that the Lord has forgotten his own?
Necessity urges man's bravest endeavor,
	As strengthened by sorrow should sympathy be;
Though buffeted sorely, we know they are never
	Forsaken, O Father, whose hopes are in Thee!
'Mid Sinia's thunders, O Lord, Thou didst tell us
	Thy children should worship and serve Thee alone;
Because of Thine honor, Thou even art jealous—
	The gods we would cling to are surely o'erthrown.
Oh, "cease ye from man," in our ears it is ringing,
	"Whose breath is as naught," who must fallible be;
Our soul's, in thy providence, Lord, Thou art bringing,
	To worship 'Thee only, to lean but on Thee.
Adversity's storms all the weakness discloses
	Of the structures that mortals uprear on the sand;
And foolish is he who his whole trust reposes
	In man, for the tempest he cannot withstand;
Thou art teaching us, Father, tho' mighty men be,
Thou art mightier still, that our hopes are in Thee!
While we "render to Cesar" his due, need we e'er
	Kneel down to a mortal in place of our God?
'Tis oppression, or pride, that presumes or will dare
	To humble his fellow, e'en down to the sod.
Power, invested in man, will at times breed abuses,
	And the triumph of Darkness these help to complete;
For Satan is subtle, and glad of excuses
	To ensnare us, to try us, "to sift us as wheat."
Though, even as children, we stoop for salvation,
	And are "buried with Christ" all our sins to efface,
Yet, as "righteousness surely exalteth a nation,"
	"The TRUTH" MUST uplift us, it CANNOT DEEASE.
To all, thus obedient, God giveth His Spirit,
	And who shall its light or their conscience defy?
Though the actions of mortals some censure should
		merit,
	To blacken the truth is it honest to try?
Nay, bold as a lion for right and for justice,
	Enduring as dauntless Truth's lovers must be;
Give us strength to be true, Lord, with wisdom entrust
		us,
	While "offences must come," let our hopes be in Thee!
Oh, happy are all who confide in Thy promise,
	Oh, wealthy are all who are blessed by Thy love;
Though "riches take wings," though they fly away from
		us,
	Yet Thy grace for our comfort sufficient doth prove.
What if Penury even, Misfortune's twin brother,
	Hath frozen and blighted our prospects so fair?
What if Circumstance strips us almost of a cover,
	And all things around us are gloomy and bare?
Though nothing we see for the fruits of our labor,
	Nor e'en will our troubles dissolve like the snow,
Though "the poor are most surely apart from their
		neighbor,"
	And 'tis even presumptuous the lofty to know;
Though the winds of Adversity sweep round our dwell-
		ing,
	Nor vast is the structure to weather the shock;
Though the floods of affliction are rising, are swelling—
	Need we fear, if our house is upreared on "the Rock?"
While the ear of Omnipoten[—] lists to our plea,
	While, infinite Father, our hopes are in Thee!
So long is the night, yet my spirit rejoices,
	A star still is glowing, still sparkling for me.
Shine out, all ye stars! By your numberless voices
	Proclaim that most mighty your Maker must be.
Shine out, gentle moon, e'en like purified saduess,
	Like sorrow subdued, that is sweeter than mirth;
Shine out, cheer the night with your mellowy gladness,
	And whisper, the Lord is the Judge of the earth.
The sun, in his gorgeous effulgence and splendor,
	We expect not, we pray not, at midnight to see;
All good in its season "the Just One" will render,
	To trust in His purpose contented we'll be.
We can wait, for we know that the darkness will vanish,
	The curtain of night will be shortly uprolled:
"The King of the day" every shadow will banish,
	Will gladden the earth as with glorified gold."
The dawn we shall welcome, the day we shall see,
For, merciful Father, our hopes are in Thee.
						EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City.


