GARDEN CITY.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: The R. S. of Garden
City, was organized June 17, 1879, under the
direction of Stake presidency Sisters Julia Lind-
say Elizabeth Collins and Mariah Rich. We
have held our meetings regularly every month
also our working meetings monthly which are
generally well attended. A good spirit prevails.
We have stored 68 bushels of wheat, and some
white beans; we have donated 6 dollars to the
temple and have still some means on hand in
the Treasury: the amount stated in the statis-
tical reports. We have a Sunday School a
Young Ladies and Primary Association. We
have a good Bishop well respected by the peo-
ple.
	The people of this place, with a few exceptions,
are young all having young families; we antici-
pate an interesting time through the winter sea-
son. Yesterday being New year's day the child-
ren and friends of our President Sister Ann E.
Cook, left Garden City in 10 sleighs and with
amply filled baskets and cheerfnl countenances
repaired to the home of our President at Iron
Creek 3 miles distant, for the purpose of giving
herself and husband a surprise on the occasion
of the 41st Anniversary of their Wedding Day.
At three o'clock Brother and Sister Cook were
summoned from a short distance where they
were visiting, passing through the dining-room
where two long tables were set with a sumptuous
repast. They were ushered into the sitting
room which was crowded to inconvenience.
Bishop Calder bade them welcome and made a
few appropriate remarks on the object of the
gathering and spoke of the kind feeling enter-
tained by the people toward the family. Several
short speeches were made by others of the
brethren, relating to the good feeling entertained
for them as good and true and long-tried mem-
bers of the Church, their hardships and persecu-
tions in the early rise of the same. An essay

[Column 2]
on their Wedding-day was read, by one of the
children, written by Amy E. Cook, 75 persons
were present at the tables after which all en-
joyed themselves in the dance; others joined
the party later in the evening swelling the num-
ber to nearly a hundred.
	Everything passed off pleasantly with the
best of feelings, Brother Cook thanked the peo-
ple in behalf of himself and wife, for their kind-
ness, said he had not the language to express his
gratitude but felt that it had been a day long to
be remembered.
