WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
[CONTINUED.]
	My father's early life and experience, with
his father, is a fair sample of those who pio-
neered and did the hard work of breaking and
settling a new country. The hardships en-
countered by them can be understood and ap-
preciated by those who were pioneers to this
western land, and have made their homes in
these Rocky Mountains. The Leaders, and
many others who were in that little band, were
the veritable descendants of the Pilgrim Fa-
thers and Mothers, who laid the foundation for
their independence. The Prophet Joseph
Smith and his brother, Hyrum, with Brigham
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Bishop N. K.
Whitney, and many of the prominent men of
the “Mormon” Church were born in the State
of Vermont. My father, in his history, says:
"Father Joseph Smith and his brother, John
Smith, were acquainted with the Kimballs, the
families were connected by marriage. Bishop
Whitney and my father were also related; they
were never acquainted until after we moved to
Kirtland, but by tracing back they found that
the mother of N. K. Whitney, whose name
was Susannah Kimball, was a relative of my
father. Father Whitney thought so much of
his mother, that he added the Kimball to sev-
eral of his children’s names; his own middle
name was Kimball, after his mother. Grand-
mother Whitney was a very intelligent, and
what the Yankees term smart woman, and
noted for her ready wit, which the following
anecdote will illustrate. One Saturday, after
the regular training was over, a drunken fellow
came riding swiftly by, and suddenly stopping
before her door, halloed, “Madam, do you
know’t (hic) hell’s broke loose?” “Yes, I see
you’ve got your liberty,” was the quick reply.
	My father and mother were of Scotch des-
cent. Their families have prided themselves
on the knowledge that they came from a noble
stock; but my parents cared very little about
worldly nobility and rank, they were proud to
be able to say that some of their ancestors
were among those who first came to America
and helped gain their independence, and
that their descendants were noble hard-working,
self-sacrificing and conscientious people, who
believed in rising on their own merits.
	The Murrays were a very warm-hearted
race, kind and generous to a fault. Many of
them were possessed of a poetic temperament,
or the gift of expressing thoughts in verse.
After the death of my eldest daughter, Vilate,
my Uncle Gould Murray’s daughter, Libbie,
who I remember when a child, sent me some
beautiful lines.
	When hearing of my mother's death, my
uncle wrote me a loving letter, and closed it
with the assurance that the children of his
own "baby sister" were dear to him, and they
would always find "his latch string on the out-
side." He was the oldest and my mother the
youngest of four children, and from her birth
he took care of her, and always called her his
"baby sister."
	My father was the only one of his family
who received the Gospel. He had a natural
reverence for the Supreme Being, and I have
often heard him, when relating his experience,
say that when a little child he loved to be
alone and reflect upon what his mother had
told him about heaven; and sometimes when
she was going out to spend an afternoon and
wanted him to go with her, he would say, "Let
me stay home at alone, ma, so I can take com-
fernits."
	He was the favorite brother, and had no
enemies until after he joined the "Mormons,"
which act, one might suppose, would have had
the effect of changing his whole nature; I

[Column 2]
might say that in one sense it did change him,
it made him a better man. This step was a
terrible blow to their pride, more particularly
to his oldest sister, Eliza, who was rich and
proud, and although she loved him, she felt so
humiliated that she said she never wanted to
see his face again. His brother, Solomon,
heard the "Mormon" Elders pray, and he told
my father that they were full of the Holy
Ghost religion; father told him he was going
to see them, and he told him to "go." His
daughter has since paid us a visit, and she told
me that her father was converted to "Mormon-
ism," and had it not been for the bitter oppo-
sition he met with from her mother, he would
have been a "Mormon."
	My father, when convinced of the truth of
it, went forward and obeyed its requirements,
without knowing whether my mother would
receive it or not; she never opposed him, but
for two or three weeks he mourned over her,
and plead night and day with the Lord to
give her a testimony of the truth of this work,
when his prayer was answered. Had his
brother done likewise, obeyed his convictions,
instead of his wife, he might possibly have
drawn her and his children after him.
	The following may prove interesting to many
of my father's friends, particularly to those
who were born and reared in the Eastern, or
New England States. He begins his life by
saying: "Concerning my ancestors I can say
but little; my Grandfather Kimball and his
brother came from England, and both assisted
in gaining the Independence of the United
States. My father, Solomon Farnham Kim-
ball, was born in the State of Massachusetts,
in the year 1770; he was raised from his boy-
hood with Judge Chase, of Massachusetts, re-
maining there until he was married, when the
Judge assisted him in establishing himself in
the business of blacksmithing in the town of
Sheldon, Franklin County, Vermont. He
was married to Anna Spaulding, who was born
in New Hampshire, in the town of Plainfield,
on the banks of the Connecticut River. At
the close of the Revolutionary War, my father
was thirteen years old, and I can remember
his rehearsing to me some of the scenes of the
war.
	"He was bald-headed, had dark brown hair,
blue eyes, sandy whiskers and sandy complex-
ion, five feet eleven inches high, and weighed
two hundred pounds and upwards; was captain
of a company of militia in Sheldon, and wore
a cocked up hat of the old English style, and
a strait-bodied coat and short breeches with a
knee buckle, long stockings and Suwarrow
boots with a pair of tassels.
	"He engaged in clearing land, burning the
wood into coal and ashes; he had also a forge
and a trip hammer in the manufacture of
wrought iron. About the time of the embargo,
before the last war with England, my father
lost his property, as it was invested in salts,
potash and pearl ash; the embargo having
shut down the gate of commerce between the
United States and England, left his property
in his hands without much value. He imme-
diately took it into his head to travel to the 
West and go into the Genessee purchase; he
saddled his horse, put on his big portmanteau,
which contained a change of raiment, and
started for the West. Arriving at the town of
Scipio, Cayuga County, New York; he fell in
with Judge Towsley, who employed him as a
foreman in a blacksmith shop, where he labored
six months; after which Judge Towsley and
my father traveled still further westward, to
within fourteen miles of the Genessee River,
to West Bloomfield, Ontario County, where
Judge Towsley assisted him in establishing
the blacksmithing business.
	"In the meantime my father took up several
hundred acres of land in this new country,
and after remaining six months, he returned

[Column 3]
to Sheldon to his family, having been absent a
year.
	"In February, 1811, he took my mother
and their six children in a sleigh, with one
span of horses, and what clothing we had upon
us and a change, and a few blankets to wrap
us in. We traveled on the ice on Lake Cham-
plain up to Whitehall, a distance of 110 miles,
where, spring being open, he traded his sleigh
for a wagon, and proceeded to West Bloom-
field, where he continued his business of black-
smithing and farming, and commenced build-
ing. He built an academy in West Bloom-
field, also two tavern stands and several pri-
vate dwellings. He made nearly all the edge
tools, such as scythes, augurs, axes, knives, &c.;
also ploughshares and agricultural implements
for the country around, to a distance of fifty
or sixty miles; and sometimes he had eight
forges at once, with a foreman and apprentice
at each fire. He generally worked with his
men and occupied one fire, and took the over-
sight of his workmen.
	"We continued living in West Bloomfield
during the late war with England, which place
was in the thoroughfare between Albany and
Buffalo, on what was called the public turn-
pike,' and on which the soldiers passed during
the war of 1812-15. It was flourishing times,
there being plenty of business and money, and
most men in business became involved, so that
when the war closed bankruptcy became com-
mon, as every merchant, tavern-keeper and
grogshop had a banking establishment, and is-
sued shin plasters from one cent up to five
dollars.
	"My father lost the greater portion of his
property, which broke him up in that place,
when he moved two and a half miles east, half
way between East and West Bloomfield, where
he brought a farm near a small lake, called
Stewart's Pond; on this pond there was a little
improvement.
	"Here he established blacksmithing, built a
large tavern-stand, barns and other outhouses,
and once more set out an orchard of various
kinds of fruit trees; this was in the year 1816,
which was called the cold season, the same
year that the black spot was seen on the sun;
the following year we gathered milkweeds,
boiled and ate them, not having salt to put on
them. It was with difficulty that bread could
be procured. My father paid three dollars
per bushel for potatoes.
	"My father was a man of good moral char-
acter, and though he did not profess any reli-
gion, yet he taught his children good morals,
and never would suffer them to swear, or play
upon the Sabbath day, without correcting them,
and would have them remain at home and read
good books, or attend the church.
	"My mother was a Presbyterian, agreea-
bly to the strictest sense of that religion; she
lived a virtuous life, and according to the best
of her knowledge taught her children the ways
of righteousness."
	To be Continued.


