NOTES AND NEWS.

	In the Medical and Surgical Reporter, a
weekly journal, published in Philadelphia, Pa-
we find the following notice of Utah Ter. from
a report made by our rising woman physician
Dr. R. B. Pratt.
	Proceedings of the Alumnoe Association of
the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania.
	This unpretending volume cannot fail to
be read with interest. It is one of the first
which owes its origin to the female physicians
of this community as a body-so far as we know
actually the first.	*	*	*	*	Dr.
Romania B. Pratt sends a very instructive
medical report on Utah Territory. Of the
diseases of that Territory she writes:"
	"As I scan the table of death, the monthly
mortuary of Salt Lake City, for 1879, I observe
the deadly footprints of the epidemic of diph-
theria. The total number of deaths from this dis-
ease in 1879 was 156, the greater number under
ten years of age. I find the next greater fatality
in acute-lung diseases pneumonia 50, bronchitis
5. It is said that this region of country is
peculiarily favorable to the recovery of patients
suffering from phthisis pulmonalis, if destruc-
tion of lung tissue is not too far advanced. I
will mention the fact interesting on account of
its negativeness—the record of one death from
syphilis. I have not met with a case yet in my
practice."
	The National Woman's Suffrage Association
held their thirteenth Annual Convention in Lin-
coln Hall, Washington, D. C. on Tuesday
and Wednesday Jan. 18th and 19th. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton presiding. Upon the platform
were Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Clemence S. Lo-
zier, Phoebe Cousins, Dr. Caroline B. Winslow,
Dr. Susan B. Edson, Marilla M. Ricker,
Misses Julia and Rachel Foster and several
other ladies of well-known celebrity. The
morning hour on Tuesday opened with memo-
rial services in commemoration of Lucretia
Mott, her picture (a large crayon portrait)
resting upon an easel in the centre of the stage.
It was draped with dark crimson and above
it was a white dove with extended wings a
beautiful vine of smilax trailing gracefully
from his beak, below the picture was a sheaf of
wheat tied with pale blue ribbon, a floral lyre
stood near. In honor to Mrs. Mott the audi-
ence joined in silent impressive invocation.
Mrs Stanton then delivered in an eloquent and
touching manner a graceful and happy tribute
to the memory of that estimable lady. Then
followed a solo by Miss Blanche Washington,
after the singing Robert Purvis was called upon
to present the floral harp to Edward M. Davis
son-in-law of Lucretia Mott as her representa-
tive, who made a happy response. Short
speeches from several of the members followed
and the session closed with the grand and sub-
lime hymn "Nearer my God to Thee."
	Of the work of subsequent sessions we will
give some details in the next issue.


FOREIGN.—The British Parliament re-
assembled Thursday and listened to the
Queen's speech. In the evening Earl Beacons-
field made a long speech in the House of
Lords, condemning the goverment policy. A
protracted debate was had on the Queen’s
speech in the House of Commons, Mr. Glad-
stone urging for its measures. Ex.


