	BY HANNAH T. KING.
		
	"Once upon a time"—formerly these words in-
variably commenced some remarkable tale, so
I take them, as mine is also a remarkable tale,
but not founded on "fairies," or "Bluebeards,"
or any of those wonder-exciting histories that
used to be written for the young readers of
those ancienct days, and generally commenced
with these woe-exciting words as above. My
tale, or the episode in a life which I am about
to give, is a veritable fact, to which I was again
and again an eye witness. I shall again repeat
these ominous words, "once upon a time," when
(looking through the lens of memory) the very
earth seemed young, when fruit seemed more
luscious and flowers more exquisitely sweet in
their never-to-be-forgotten perfume, even if they
were not so gorgeous in appearance. We had
not then heard of the rose of the "Cloth of
Gold," the Hybrid rose, and the Nosette, and
the Bankseer and others, and a "Horticultural
show" was a nine days' wonder, blackberrying
and nutting were the red-letter days in the do-
mestic calendar of youth, and the village
"feast" was the grand exposition of the year!
The very remembrance of those times brings
over us a freshness, a freedom, a gladness; that
nothing to-day seems akin to. In the pano-
rama of those golden days, vistas through
which we are now peering, I see two little girls!
Yes, were I a mechanical painter I could pro-
duce them on the canvas, even to their features 
and the very expressino of those little round,
chubby faces; they exhibited strong character-
istics, though the eldest could barely be eight,
and the other probably six years old. They 
were ever dressed precisely alike, quaint and
original, as everything was about them; they
wore little straw cottage bonnets lined, with a
piece of ribbon simply put across to tie them
down, little shawls quaintly pinned down at 
the waist, frocks, stockings and shoes all twin
they invariably walked hand in hand as they

[Column 2]
passed to school, or on the errand on which
they might have been sent. They were fresh
and rosey with health, and were perfect types of
the little rustic, though they differed in ap-
pearance; Sarah, the principal subject of this
little sketch, was entirely the little rustic; Betsy,
her sisiter, denoted a more refined physique, her
complexion pink aud white—Sarah the bru-
nette. They ever seemed entirely devoted to 
each other; in passing groups of children they
would eye them as they passed, and perhaps
look back a little over the shoulder, but on no
account did they ever stop to make observa-
tion or listen to what was going on. This pic-
ture is apropos to them for years. Did not all
this denote character in children of such an
early age? I think so. Probably they acted 
under orders from head-quarters, and truly 
they were obedient.
	The father of these children was a man far
advanced in  years; he was himself a character.
I expect his type is obsolete, for at that time
even, he seemed to belong to a past age. He
was a small farmer, but his own landlord.
Non-enterprising, like a certain class of that
day when he started into life. He would grow
some wheat, enough to supply his family, and 
sufficient to sell to pay his taxes and other tri-
fling expenses, oats for his horses, which always
looked fat and lazy, peas for his pig, of which
he farmed many, and barley for malt for his
own use, and some also for the market. He 
had married early in life, but his family had
grown up and gone out into the world, and his
wife was dead. 
	Of course he must have a housekeeper, and
he found one the very counterpart of him-
self, only she was younger by some years;
how long she remained housekeeper deponent
knoweth not, but finding her one who could
ably fill the chair of state in his household, he
proposed honorable marriage and was accepted.
I wish I could describe her! for she too was of
a type now extinct; indeed, at the time of
which I write she stood out in bold relief, like
her husband, as belonging to the past. In ap-
pearance she was homely, but not vulgar, strong
and stalwart in form, but not masculine; an
arm that we should have shunned, had she 
been angry and attempted to hold a culprit.
She always wore short sleeves from the elbow—
she would have hid herself in the bushes had
she been found walking in the garden in the
cool of the day in a long-sleeved dress, as some-
things she ought to be ashamed of! a large hand-
kerchief over her shoulders, primly pinned
down at the waist; a full apron, that had the
appearance of half a skirt, an open dress folded
and pinned back, a bright colored calimanco
petticoat, a cap—but over that she eternally
wore a little black bonnet; whether she slept
in it I am unable to say, but she was never
seen without it from the rising of the sun to
the going down of the same. I do not know
whether my picture will be vivid to my read-
ers but to me it is graphic and true to the life.
I have spoken of her figure, now a few words
on the face; she wore one eternal expression—
had she ever smiled? It must be long ago. In
looking at her, one might have imagined at
one time in her life she might have had a
great sorrow, and it had set its mark upon 
her as a heavy cloud, which no sunbeam ever
lifted. Had she loved in early life and been
"disappointed?" I have not a glimpse of light
upon that subject, so must leave it; but if so,
it might have been one cause why she took the
uncouth old man for her husband. He was 
also rich: that might have put a bright face
upon affairs. At any rate, she became Mrs.
Carter, and in every sense of the words became
an excellent wife and mother. She was not 
repulsive, but certainly not winning in her 
manners and appearance; she looked entirely
behind the times in which she lived. When I
came to know her, years after the times I am
now describing, in her great sorrow, I ever fel

[Column 3]
deep sympathy and respect for her, and she
evidently appreciated these feelings in me.
Such were the parents of the children des-
cribed above.
	When Sarah was about fourteen years of
age she had a severe attack of typhoid fever.
Her mother alone nursed her  with the most
devoted care and she seemed to recover from
death itself. At last she arose from her bed,
but there was such extreme weakness and pros-
tration of vital energy that she would fre-
quently lie down and have long sleeps. Her
mother considered this as nature bringing
about a restoration in her own way, and did
not attempt to prevent it. Time passed on
and she seemed restored in a degree, but leth-
argy increased upon her; she would sleep for
hours, and at last whole days, and then arouse
up and take some food. Still it seemed no
effort was made to throw off the lethargic state
into which she was daily sinking. Instead of
days, it would now be weeks, perhaps two,  that
sleep, or trance, which lasted seven years! At
the commencement of this trance-like stage
doctors were called in, and indeed many went
to witness the strange phenomenon uncalled
for. Doctor Haviland and Doctor Ficklin,
both of Cambridge, physicians of great prac-
tice and high character in the medical world,
and also in the highest society, were daily
visitors, for a long time, to the beside of the
sleeping girl. Many experiments were tried,
until the poor mother stood forward in her
commanding way, and declared her child
should be no more "tampered with."
	[To be Continued.]


