	GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO RELIEF SOCIETY
SECRETARIES: Hereafter Stake Secretaries will
only require semi-annual reports, which should
be furnished them as early as the 5th of Septem-
ber and March, to enable Stake Secretaries to
prepare and forward their reports to Central
Secretary by the 15th, as she is required to give
her report at President Taylor's office ten days
prior to Genernl Conferences. These instruc-
tious are designed for organized Stakes in all the
world. Times of making reports may be varied
to suit the circumstances of branches in foreign
countries and on the Islands.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL, Central Secretaay.
By order of Relief Society President.

	RESPECT THE AGED: On Satnrday Jan. 30, a
few of the sisters of the Relief Society in the
18th Ward of this city went to the house of
Father Tucket as a Suprise Party; it being the
80th anniversary of his birth,they wished to ex-


press their kind feelings for him and his aged
wife.  The table was spread  with  some of the
choicest bounties of  earth  and  all  felt  blessed
temporally and  spiritually.  May  the  peace  of
heaven  rest  upon  them  in  their  declining
years.   Sister Ann B. Snow  and Riser were the
committee in this praiseworthy affair, and may
the Lord help them and all  of us to  do good to
the aged, the  feeble, the fatherless  and  all who
need comfort, and in  blessing  we will be blest.
	M. P. Y.
	LETTERS from St. George  inform us  that  on
Saturday Feb. 5, Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow  Smith
and Zina D.  Young, visited Price City five miles
from St George,  met  with  the Relief  Society
at 10, A. M. and organized  a Primary  Associa-
tion in  the  afternoon  returning  to  St.  George
the same night.  On Monday  morning  they ex-
pected to  start  for  Kanab;  they  will  visit  the
different branches in that stake  and  will prob-
ably  be  absent  from  St.  George  two  weeks.
They are doing a great  work in that  vicinity in
organizing  and  reorganizing   the women  and
children and in awakening a desire  for spiritual
improvement.
	Sister Rachel R.   Grant  Pres.  Relief  Society
13th,  Ward of this city  is spending a few weeks
in St  George and enjoying to a great degree the
good  spirit  and  infliuence  which seems  to have
such a  salutary  effect  upon  all  who  visit the
Temple.
	PEN Sketch of an Illustrious  Woman  is  nec
essarily delayed again also Jesse   Burns, Or Was
It Fate.  We commend to the  attention  of  our
readers the serial now  in  course  of  publication
entitled  Living Links.  It  is  all  true  and  de-
serves being well  read.
	The other  continued   articles are  also  strictly
true.   Life Incidents contains many interesting
items of Church History,  and  important  matter
from the journal of Pres. Heber C. Kimball  the
father of the writer.   Our readers  some of  them
have mistaken the identity of Helen Mar. Whit-
ney confusing her with "Mother Whitney," and
attributing the articles to her.  Helen Mar Kim-
ball was the  daughter of   Prest. Heber C.  and
Vilate Murray Kimball,and is the wife of Horace
K.  Whitney eldest son  of Bishop Newel K. and
Elizabeth Ann   Whitney, lovingly   designated,
"Mother Whitney" by the  people among whom
in good works and faithfulness  to  the  interest of
Zion  she has lived over  half a century.


