BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Though we never were privileged to look
upon this great and grand woman, we have be-
come as it were united to her by our sympa-
thies being excited and wound round her by
her noble works, which we have read with a
marvel and a wonder! and we mourn to hear
she has passed away from this mundane sphere
of action. It seems hard to believe that that
great heart, whose love and sympathy extended
over all God’s creation, will beat no more!
That that brain will no more concoct grand,
beautiful, deep and enduring picture-models of
human life and character, that elevated all who
read, and excited in them a desire to arise to
a higher state of existence than hitherto they
had deemed themselves capable of.
	"Adam Bede," the "Mill on the Floss" and
"Middlemarch" were her first grand publica-
tions; "Daniel Deronda" and "Romola" her
later ones. Her father, of whom she was pas-
sionately fond, was the original of more than
one in his daughter’s novels—notably of Caleb
Garth, in "Middlemarch." Her mother died
when she was still a child. Her father, Robert
Evans, was a land agent and surveyor, and
lived in the neighborhood of Nuneaton, War-
wickshire; he is still remembered as a man of
rare worth and character by many neighbors
in the Midlands. She was a great lover of all
animals, and she ever showed as intense a sym-
pathy and intimate acquaintance with animal
as with human nature. A gentleman once
took her into a racing stable at Newmarket, to
view "Kisber," a Derby winner, and to the
utter astonishment of the Trainer, she drew at-
tention to the fine points of the horse; showing
that even that she had made a study. She
seems to have come up to London when quite
a girl, and became associated with many of
the writers in the "Westminster Review"—
with John Stuart Mill, Herbert Spencer,
George Henry Lewes, Mr. John Chapman
and others. Her first work, "Scenes of Cleri-
cal Life," it is said was sent anonymously to
"Blackwood’s. Magazine" by G.H. Lewes, and
was eagerly accepted by the editor, who dis-
covered in it the promise of rare and pre-
eminent genius. It was not; however, until
"Adam Bede" was published, in 1859, that
the world at large discerned that a new nove-
list of the first rank had appeared. The name
of George Eliot became a household word, and
much curiosity was excited as to the real name
and sex of the writer. At this juncture a

[Column 2]
clergyman, H. Anders, Rector of Kirby, wrote
to the "Times," naming a gentleman who he
assured the editor, was the author of "Scenes
in Clerical Life" and "Adam Bede!" This
produced, on the next day, the following re-
joinder from the real George Eliot:

	"Sir—The Rev. H. Anders has, with ques-
tionable delicacy and unquestionable inaccuracy
assured the world through your columns that
the author of 'Scenes of Clerical Life' and
'Adam Bede' is Mr. Joseph Liggins, of Nunea-
ton. I beg distinctly to deny that statement.
I declare on my honor that that gentleman
never saw a line of those works until they
were printed, nor had he any knowledge of
them whatever. Allow me to ask whether the
act of publishing a book deprives a man of all
claim to the courtesies usual among gentleman?
If not, the attempt to pry into what is obvi-
ously meant to be withheld—my name—and to
publish the rumors which such prying may
give rise to, seems to me quite indefensible,
still more so to state these rumors as ascer-
tained truths. I am, sir, yours, &c.,
						GEORGE ELIOT."
	The secret, however, soon leaked out, and
long before "The Mill on the Floss" was pub-
lished in 1860, it was known in literary circles,
at least, that George Eliot was none other than
Marian Evans, the Westminster reviewer and
translator of Strauss. In appearance, this ex-
traordinary woman was commonplace, and
persons expecting to see a woman of com-
manding aspect, with her genius written on
her face and figure, often turned back disap-
pointed after the introduction; both in dress
and manners she was quiet and unassuming;
only those who could get into low-toned, sober
talk on high subjects, knew what an emotional
glow there was beneath that calm exterior,
how readily she responded to a true sentiment
in which her heart and her intellect agreed!
	There is reason to believe that she saw in
later life the great mistake which she had
made in early life, it must be confessed with
her eyes open. But having put her hand to
the seal of a dual covenant, nothing could
alter her purpose; but though her resolve never
faltered, the arguments with which she justified
herself did falter. She was ever acknowledged
and received into society, her great genius and
the peculiar circumstances that surrounded
her being accepted as apology. Her health
failed with the death of George Henry Lewes.
It is hoped that she leaves some traces of auti-
biography, through which the world will be
made to understand one of the greatest women
of the Victorian era.
	It was desired by some of her friends that
Westminster Abby should be her last resting
place, and it is said that Dean Stanley would
have consented, but on mature reflection that
desire was withdrawn, and her remains repose
in one of the most beautiful, elegant and lovely
cemeteries in the environs of London—I think
Kensal Green, if I remember right. All ad-
mirers of this remarkable woman will look
forward to yet reading a biography that shall
do her justice, and they will bend over its
pages with love and sympathy of the purest
and of the most unique; and many a sigh and
many a tear will be blended with their admira-
tion and rich appreciation.


