EDITORIAL NOTES.

	PATRONIZE home manufacture by going to C.
R. Savage's for the prettiest and sweetest valen-
tines. We found one in our sanctum the other
day artistic enough to satisfy the most ardentest
of true "lovyers."

[Column 2]
	RICHARD A. Proctor, the celebrated English
Astronomer, gave two interesting lectures in the
Theatre Monday and Tuesday evenings, Feb. 7
and 8. His subjects were, first, "The Birth and
Growth of Worlds;" second, "The Life and
Death of Worlds." He gave his ideas drawn
from observation and long, earnest and diligent
study of the heavenly bodies.

	IN the Senate of the United States, Jan. 19,
Mr. McDonald called up the proposition for the
appointment of a committee to hear claims of
women citizens, a request which had been made
in February, 1880. He advocated the subject as
a means by which women applicants for legisla-
tion, etc., might be heard before the country,
and added that he thought it was time they
should be heard. Mr. Conkling thought if the
Senator intended to crown with success this
movement, he should raise a special committee,
and give it to understand its purpose was not to
postpone forever, but act promptly one way or
the other. Mr. McDonald preferred the proposi-
tion as submitted, because new rights and new
propositions would come up, and apprehended
the subject was not one to be soon disposed of,
but so long as the human family lasted, the
rights of women would demand conslderation.
Mr. Davis moved to refer the resolution to the
Committee on rules. Agreed to. Yeas, 26;
nays, 23. And there the matter stands.

	MUCH gain in the cause of Woman Suffrage
has been achieved in England during the past
year. The important fact that the law enables
women owners to vote at elections in the Isle of
Man is a grand beginning. Women workers in
the cause of suffrage are not laboring in vain;
more and more their claims for woman are be-
coming recognized. Woman's Journal, Feb. 5,
contains an account of the Twelfth Annual
Meeting of the American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, held in Boston the last week in Janu-
ary. This meeting seems to have been specially
interesting. A public hearing was granted in
the Green Room of the State House in behalf of
the petition of the Joint Special Committee on
Woman Suffrage. Lucy Stone, Chairman of
Executive Committee, said the petition asked
for three distinct acts of Legislature, viz.: "a
law to enable" women to vote in presidential
elections, a law to enable women to vote in mu-
nicipal elections and town meetings, and a re-
solve for an amendment of the State Constitu-
tion, abolishing all political distinctions on ac-
count of sex.

	MRS. Ellen C. S. Clawson returned, Feb. 4, from
her visit to the East. Mrs. C. was accompanied
by her husband, H. B. Clawson, Esq. They left
Salt Lake Dec. 15, went direct to Chicago, and
from there to Washington; called upon Bro.
Cannon, visited the White House, the Capitol
and other places of interest, remaining there
only one day. Mrs. C. visited her relatives in
Canaan, New York and West Stockbridge, Mass.,
at Christmas time, and found all delighted to
see her, after forty years' absence, and though
only a child eight years old when she left her
home in West Stockbridge, she recognized all
the old places, and felt almost as if she were liv-
ing over again the days of her childhood. Dur-
ing her stay in the East she succeeded in obtain-
ing many items of the genealogy of her forefa-
thers. Mrs. C. visited the notable places in
New York City, where she spent some time
and was filled with admiration more than she
could express in seeing Greenwood Cemetery.
Scattered through the States of New York and
Ohio are many of the relatives of her family,
whom she spent some time in visiting. She
spent one day at Niagara Falls, whose grandeur
and sublimity impressed her as they do all the
	dmirers of Nature's works, with awe and rever

[Column 3]
ence for the Great Creator. Mrs. C. visited
most of the largest manufacturing establish-
ments in the East—her husband's business re-
quiring him to do so, and she accompanied him.
She has enjoyed her journey very much and re-
turned in good health and excellent spirits.

	WEDNESDAY, February 9, the President and
Senate, Vice-President, Speaker and the House
of Representatives gathered in the Hall of the
House of Representatives for the purpose of
counting the electoral votes. The Vice-Presi-
dent called the Assembly to order and said,
"The two houses being assembled in pursuance
of the Constitution, it became his duty as Presi-
dent of the Senate to open the packages pur-
porting to contain the certificates of election of
the several States of the Union. Accordingly
the regular formula was observed, though the
vote of Georgia having been cast on a day
other than the day fixed for the casting of
such votes by the act of Congress was not re-
corded. "The letters footed up at the close of
the reading, and Senator Thurman announced
that the whole number of electors voting were
369, of which a majority is 185. Had the vote
of Georgia been cast on the 8th day of December,
and counted, the result would be for Garield,
216, Hancock, 155. Not counted, the result
would be, Garfield, 214, Hanckock, 114. "In
either event, James A. Garfield has recieved a
majority of the whole number of electoral
votes. The same statement was made respect-
ing the Vice-President, wherefore the Vice-
President declared James A. Garfield, President,
and Chester A. Arthur, Vice-President of the
United States for the four years beginning March
4th, 1881." (Loud applause.)


