REFLECTIONS.

	As I sit and reflect upon passing events  my
mind  wanders  back  many  years  then  on
the present, and  also the  future.  What  are
we  to  expect? We look  for many  things to
transpire in the next  five years,  according to
philosophers,  account  of numerous signs in the
heavens, but have  we not been told  of  these
things that were to come, by  our beloved Pro-


[Column 1]
phet while he was  with  us, and have we  not
seen many of these  predictions  come  to pass
just as he said they would;  also many that are
still with us, and  our late  President  Brigham
Young  and  his  co-laborer  Bro.  Heber  has
told us many times  what  would befall the na-
tion.
	We are  not  under  the  necessity of reading
the stars or planetary system for this  informa-
tion. We are in a measure  prepared for these
events.  Our glorious  nation!  and the  ruler
and father of this  free land  of liberty, what do
we expect  of him?  Truth, honor, freedom, for
all mankind, is  what  was  promised  our fore-
fathers that fought and bled when Washington
the noble  father  of our  country  proclaimed
liberty and freedom, and  planted the national
standard,and the stars and stripes floated to the
breese; the very thought  of which makes every
patriotic heart swell with enthusiasm.
	Do we still love that  emblem?  Are we to be
deprived of the promised  liberty and freedom,
that is dear to every  American citizen?  What
has become of the  constitution  and the  laws
that  we as a people  are  forbidden  our  rights
and privileges? 
	Oh, the cry is  you  practice  such erroneous
habits!  you have many wives  and honor them!
take care of  your  offspring!  clothe  them  and
educate them, and teach them truth and right-
eousness and to  love  their  neighbors as them-
selves and  honor  the  laws  of the land and  to
protect  our  national  flag and carry out  the
promised  freedom  that  our  noble father pro-
claimed in 1776! Is it these things or their own
wickedness that  they  cannot  endure to see  a
law-abiding  and  peaceful,  industrious  and
God-fearing  people  rest  in  peace, but must
spread  falsehoods  and slander to  accomplish
their own desires.  But  our  heavenly  Father
is at the helm, and in God  we trust.
	I am wandering from  my  subject and now 
to my mind  appears the "Vision  of  Washing-
ton."  He tells of great and  wonderful  things
that will befall this nation;  and after  the  ter-
rible  event  that  beautiful  cities and  villages
will spring up  all  over the land.  The heavy
cloud seems now to hang over  America, when 
will it  burst  and  the  angry  elements  clear
away?  Are  we as a people  prepared  for  this
awful day?  I fear not!  the  greater portion  of
us seem to be  asleep.  Wake up!  oh, ye sons
and daughters of Israel  humble  ourselves be-
fore the great  Ruler of all!  He will  hear our
humble prayers, He cannot resist the pleadings
of his fair daughters, let us obey his command-
ments  they  are easy  and  plain;  He  says,
"come out of Babylon  oh, ye  my people, that
ye partake not of her plagues and touch not, nor 
handle not of her unclean things!" is this hard?
not at all.  We gather  out  from the world to
worship our Heavenly  Father as  He directs.
Now let us serve  him  with  an  earnest will 
faithfully and we will be blest, and  will  have
peace  that our  enemies  cannot  control, and 
turn things at their will.  Sisters  let us plead
with our Heavenly Father  and urge  our hus-
bands and sons to bow in  humility before God
and  our Delegate will keep his seat in Congress
and the Franchise will not be taken away from
us, nor will our enemies  have power to hurt or 
make us afraid;  for we have this promise given
to us if we are only faithful.
	Now let us wake up  and  humble ourselves, 
ovey the  commandments  given  us  keep the
word of wisdom the law  of Celestial  Marriage,
pay  our  tithing honestly, donate to the temples,
help to  emigrate the poor,  and  come  out of 
Babylon, partaking not of her follies and fash-
ions.  Can we do  all  these?  Most  assuredly
we can.
	Our Heavenly Father says "ask and ye shall
receive, knock  and  it  shall  be  opened unto 
you," Well let us ask  and knock, and be un-
ited in all we do, strive  to be humble and ob-
edient and forgiving  to one  another, then  we

[Column 2]
can  claim the promises that belong to the faith-
ful.  Success to tha EXPONENT may  it always
be a boon to every household as it is to me.
