Extract from the Life of Faith
"I had walked life's way with an easy tread, Had followed where comforts and pleasures led, Until one day in a quiet place, I met the Master, face to face.
"With station and rank, and wealth for my goal, Much thought for my body, but none for my soul, I had entered to win in life's big race, When I met the Master, face to face.
"I met Him and knew Him and blushed to see That His eyes full of sorrow were fixed on me. I faltered and fell at His feet that day, While my castles melted and vanished away, Melted and vanished, and in their place, Naught else did I see but the Master's face.
"And I cried aloud 'Oh, make me meet To follow the steps of Thy wounded feet.' My thought is now for the souls of men; I have lost my life to find it again, E'er since one day in a quiet place, I met the Master, face to face."
Editors Note: These verses were read at the Biennial Meeting of the Women of the United States, held last November in Detroit.
Guide Lessons for November
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony
(First Week in November)
SOME SOCIAL ASPECTS IN THE LIFE OF JESUS
1. Attendance at the Celebration of the Planning of the Earth: This great social event occurred in the spirit world. It was a time of rejoicing in the heavens. It antedated the tragic event of the great rebellion which resulted in the triumph of a two-thirds majority of Heaven's hosts and the banishment of Satan and his legions. The occasion of this first celebration of spiritual record was the completion of the plan for the organization of the growth and destiny of the planet on which we live. Although scripture does not name him as one of the participants, that Christ was there, there can be no doubt. That he was a leading actor is evident from the fact that the planet yet unformed was to be placed under his special care as one of its creators and the Redeemer of its inhabitants.?Job 38:1-7
2. Jesus the Guest: From the time he was twelve years old to the night preceding the Passion Week, he manifested active interest in celebrating the deliverance of Israel from Egyptian bondage. The Feast of the Passover was, as are our conferences, of a dual nature, both spiritual and social. Jesus had undoubtedly been habituated and traditionated to attendance at great spiritual and social gatherings of the people. The first miracle of his mortal life was wrought at a village wedding where he met the unexpected needs of the occasion in a most masterly manner. In the light of what has transpired under his direction in our day, one is led to think that the changing of water into wine was prophetic of the substitution of water for wine in our sacramental service. At all events, this entertainment, like all others that were favored with his presence, had the education element in it. It was here that he gave evidence to the world of his power to miraculously accelerate nature in her productiveness. He was guest of honor in the house of Simon the leper. This
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 477
feast was made memorable from the fact that Mary lovingly annointed him with ointment from an alabaster box, the price of which equalled that of a year's service. Her seeming extravagance was criticised, but Jesus came to her defense with a justification accompanied by a promise that immortalized her name and proclaimed the truth that nothing is too good for the Lord. Mark 14:3. Luke 7:37.
Jesus the Host: Supper in the Wilderness. On this occasion, Jesus was host. His guests were a multitude of 5,000 weary and hungry people. The menu consisted of fish and bread,?a miraculous quantitative increase of five loaves and two fishes purchased from an enterprising lad, the sole possessor of provisions in the great throng. Their tables were plots of nature's lawn?"There was much grass in the place.' On each of these plots sat fifty people. The Twelve served under-the Master's direction. Here we have an? Object Lesson in Order?" Making them sit down by fifties in a company." A Great Lesson in Reverence?Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes and looking up to Heaven, he blessed them." A Lesson in Economy?'"Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost." A Lesson in Theology?That divine authority can command the elements and hasten the processes of nature?Luke 9:11-17; John 6:5-14; Talmage's, Jesus the Christ, 333. Jesus is host again in the wilderness. This repast differed from the previous one in the following particulars. The number was less by 1,000 men. The stock of provisions at hand was seven loaves and a few fishes instead of five loaves and two fishes. But fragments remaining were seven baskets-instead of twelve. But in essentials, there was no difference. In the former instance, the thought of feeding the multitude was introduced by the Twelve with an expression of anxiety, "Send the multitude away that they may go to the towns." In the latter instance it was introduced by the Master with compassionate consideration?"I have compassion on the multitude because they have been with me three days and have had nothing to eat." But the latter repast was like the first in essentials?there was order, the blessing was asked, there was plenty for all and nothing was wasted, and the power over the elements was manifested ?Mark 8:1-22. Talmage's Jesus the Christ, 357. The Lord's Supper: This might be called an event of transition?the completion of the old and the beginning of the new sacrament. So far as records are concerned, it is the last meal of the Savior in mortality. There 
 was the preparation?the program. The place was a large upper room in Jerusalem. The time, Thursday evening. The participants were the Christ and the Twelve Apostles. The menu included at least bread, meat, and wine. The events might be considered under eleven headings:? Proceedings at the Table: 1. Introductory remarks?"I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer." Luke 22:15. 2. The blessing and the passing of the bread?"This i is my body, which is given for you: this do in remembrance of 'me.' Luke 22:19. 3. The blessing and the passing of the wine? ?This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you." Luke 22:20. 4. The revelation of the perfidy of Judas. Jesus the Christ, Talmage, 599. 5. The promise to the twelve?"And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me; "That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel." Luke 22:29-30. 6. The strife over leadership?'For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth at meat? But I am among you as he that serveth." Luke 22:27. 7. The ordinance of the washing of feet. This was an impressive lesson in service. It was more?"If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me." John 13:8. 8. The departure of Judas?"That thou doest, do quickly," said Jesus to Judas, who left the room in anger. John 13:27. 9. The sermon at the supper. For the first time the Lord directed the disciples to pray in his name to the Father?"A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another." John 13:34-35. 10. The concluding prayer?"O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them." John 17:25-26. In the talk to the Apostles, Jesus for the first time 'taught the necessity of praying to the Father in his name?"Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full." John 16:23-24. GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 479 "These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee: "As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him." John 17:1-2. This is one of the greatest doctrinal prayers ever uttered? _ The most complete record is found in John 17. 11. Singing of the hymn. The scriptural statement is? "And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives." Matthew 26:30. It is pretty generally conceded that the Last Supper by Leonardo da Vinci is the greatest of all Christian paintings. The Breakfast After the Resurrection: Place?The shore of the Sea of Galilee. Time of day?early dawn. The menu?Broiled fish and bread. The fishermen? the apostles who had been fishing all night and had caught nothing. Jesus directed them to success in their vocation, and provided them with their morning meal, in which he gave objective proof that they were still objects of his care. Christ's Promised Entertainment on the Earth: The Savior declared to the Prophet Joseph Smith that he would be in attendance atthe gathering on the earth in company with the Angel Moroni, the Prophet Elias, John the Baptist, the Prophet Elijah, Joseph who was sold into Egypt, Jacob, Isaac, Abraham, Adam, Peter, James and John, and other spiritual worthies. D. & C. Section 27. Summary OF LESSON 2 Holding celebrations is a part of the abundant life of which the Savior spoke when he said?"I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly." John 10:10. Questions and Problems 1. How does Job prove that Jesus was at the celebration of the completion of the plan for this earth? 2. What did the people attempt to do with Jesus at the end of the supper in the wilderness where he fed the five thousand?? John 6:15. 
 LESSON II Work and Business TEACHERS TOPIC FOR NOVEMBER HOME TALKS Peace "Blessed are the peace makers: for they shall be called the children of God." Matthew 5:9. "He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city."" Proverbs 16:32.; I. Peace in the Home: 1. 2. 3. Respect for opinions, property and feelings of one another contributes to peace in the home. Respect other races and do not speak slightingly of them before children in the home. An understanding of the customs and games of the children of other races lays a foundation for appreciation and understanding in later life... An effort to settle family disputes, etc., in a spirit of love and kindness, cultivates the spirit of peace. II. Peace in the Community:  III. 2. 3 "Be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you." Ephesians 4:32. "Tet none of you imagine evil in your hearts against his neighbor." Zechariah 8:17. Live the Gospel. Do not hold grudges against anyone in the community. (The holder of a grudge is the one most injured.) Do not envy neighbors but rejoice in their good fortune. Have confidence in others and they will have confidence in you. Have a desire to make others happy. Be anxious to assist neighbors in misfortune. A peaceful community is a blessed place in which to live. World Peace: 1. Intelligent families, with high standards, do not settie their difficulties by fighting. Good neighbors arbitrate their differences. Intelligent and enlightened nations should have the same high standaras in this respect as individuals and communities, and thus do away with the savagery and horror of war. International understanding and co-operation makes for world peace. GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 481 - LESSON III Literature (Third Week in November) JEAN WEBSTER Jean Webster was a modern college girl whose love for children was so great and whose disgust for the abuse of them so intense that from the fulness of her heart came two books?DaddyLong-Legs and Dear Enemy, and from the fulness of her well stored mind has come the most forward-looking philosophy in relation to dependent children that has appeared in literature. This is our reason for presenting her books to Relief Society workers. Jean Webster, the pen name used by Mrs. McKinney, came to her in her boarding school days. The name given her by her parents was Alice Jane Chandler Webster. Jane was the name of Mark Twain's mother and it had fallen to Miss Webster's lot to perpetuate this family name, as Mark Twain was her great uncle. When she arrived at boarding school, the girls selected for her room-mate was named Alice, also, and so to avoid confusion those in charge asked Miss Webster to take her second name. She thought Jane too plain a name so she changed it to Jean. The ? name appealed to her, and later as a writer, she retained her boarding school name. Early in her career at Vassar College it was noted that she possessed a great deal of ability. It was the custom in her English course to require a theme a day, a practice coming from Harvard University, Barrett Wendell being its originator. Because of the merit of her papers she was appointed correspondent to the Poughkeepsie paper. One of the upper class girls played a practical joke on her which nearly resulted in her losing her position. However, she took the incident in good part and out of it grew her first book, entitled When Patty went to College. This book has been called "the best volume of undergraduate stories that ever emanated from a woman's college." While her first book was at the publishers, she left her father's home, which was at Fredonia, New York, and went to New York City. There are two groups of people that find themselves very much at home in our modern day New York?people-who are ambitious to become writers, and those who are interested in the drama. Jean Webster was very much at home in New York City for she found there the material that claimed her interest. It was while she was in the home of a friend in Greenich, Connecticut, that she wrote her famous Daddy-Long-Legs that 
 has had even greater popularity as a play than as a story. After writing Daddy-Long-Legs, which revealed the tenderness of her soul towards children, she married Mr. McKinney. It seems the very irony of fate that this woman, whose heart had been so large and whose benefactions had been so many, should give her life for the life of another. It was in June, 1915, that she died, on the very day that her little daughter was born. When we think of the exquisite child she has given us in Allegra in her book called Dear Enemy, we are led to wonder whether her child would not have repeated in its life much of the beauty of that little girl. Having traced a few of the events of her life, let us examine into her background. By inheritance she had much of the sympathy, the sense of humor and the ability to portray character so marked in the writings of her illustrious forebear Mark Twain. She had the benefit of training in one of the best of American colleges. She, like her great uncle, was fond of travel in Europe, and it was given to her to spend a good many summers in that land that has contributed so much to the creative work of American writers. Her intimate knowledge of the dialects of both the Irish and the Scotch adds a good deal to the humor of her books. That she was a linquist of some ability is evident from the fact that when she was writing Daddy-Long-Legs she conversed with a young Italian boy who was in the home of her friend in his native tongue. This young man stated later that he had read Daddy-Long-Legs a considerable time before its publication, from the discarded pages that she had thrown in the wastebasket. That she loved the beautiful waters of the Mediterranean and the soft skies of Italy is apparent to all who read her books with adequate grasp of their content. Daddy-Long-Legs was inspired by a white marble statue of a girl in St. Patrick's Cathedral in Dublin; at least we were so told by the rector in charge, while visiting the Cathedral, that Miss Webster had made such a statement. The statue is one of a girl who was adopted from an orphanage by an old gentleman who later contracted typhoid from his charge and died as a result. Daddy-Long-Legs is the story of a little girl, Judy Abbott, who was reared-in an orphanage. Later, having attracted the attention of one of the trustees, she was given an opportunity for a college education, knowing only that her benefactor was a trustee. Miss Webster adopted an old literary device, that of writing letters. In this instance she does all the writing and we have to surmise what has been written to her by her replies. In one sense it is like listening to one side of a telephone conversation?we can judge something of what is being said by the answers. The orphanage in which little Judy Abbott was confined was GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 4&3 very disagreeable, and the woman in charge was a very disagreeable person. As Judy corresponds with her benefactor she makes known to him at what a loss she has been placed because she was deprived of home and parents as a child. Jean Webster has lifted her story out of what is oppressive, commonplace and dull, through two devices?the use of humor that plays constantly against the tragic, and by making a love story out of it. Judy's benefactor turns out to be a member of a very well known and highly respected American family, who falls in love with his charge and marries her. After the publication of Daddy-Long-Legs, Miss Webster was solicited everywhere by social groups until she found herself practically the center of a reform movement. Then she published another book, Dear Enemy, in which she retains her hero and her heroine of Daddy-Long-Legs, and through a superintendent makes over the John Greer Home for orphans. To get rid of the old buildings and substitute for them modern cottages, she has the place burn down. Into her scheme of decoration she weaves much brightness and caters to the tastes of the children. Instead of having the children in little dull uniforms, she has them made little gowns of bright colors, each child selecting the colors she likes, each child being the possessor of her own clothes. It is in every way a thoroughly up-to-date book. We quote the following from her last published work, Dear Enemy, "which beneath the light engaging love story that plays about the surface, presents the last word in the care of dependent children, is a book destined to do more effective service in behalf of these unfortunates than all the treatises yet published." She is said to have selected the names of her characters from the telephone book. She usually had somebody in mind as she drew her portraits. A most gratifying thought in relation to Jean Webster is that she exemplified her teachings in her life. She was a woman whose every day actions enriched and made beautiful the lives of others. There are some persons whose lives are so filled with beauty because of their good works that they strengthen our faith in the ideal and in the ultimate triumph of love in the world?such a character was Jean Webster. Her books are enlivened throughout by copious illustrations that are often more humorous than anything she says. That humor was deep-seated in her is as evident from her drawings as from her speech. We include part of three chapters from Dear Enemy that you may have an idea of her writings:
Friday.
Dear Judy:
Yesterday morning, without the slightest warning, a station hack drove up to the door and disgorged upon the steps two men, two little


ones, a baby girl, a rocking-horse, and a Teddy bear, and then drove off! The men were artists, and the little ones were children of another artist, dead three weeks ago. They had brought the mites to us because they thought "John Grier" sounded solid and respectable, and not like a public institution. It had never entered their unbusiness-like heads that any formality is necessary about placing a child in an asylum. I explained that we were full, but they seemed so stranded and aghast, that I told them to sit down while I advised them what to do. So the chicks were sent to the nursery, with a recommendation of bread and milk, while I listened to their history. Those artists had a fatally literary touch, or maybe it was just the sound of the baby girl's laugh, but, anyway, before they had finished, the babes were ours. Never have I seen a sunnier creature than the little Allegra (we don't often get such fancy names or such fancy children). She is three years old, is lisping funny baby-talk and bubbling with laughter. The tragedy she has just emerged from has never touched her. But Don and Clifford, sturdy little lads of five and seven, are already solemn-eyed and frightened at the hardness of life. Their mother was a kindergarten teacher who married an artist on a capital of enthusiasm and a few tubes of paint. His friends say that he had talent, but of course he had to throw it away to pay the milkman. They lived in a haphazard fashion in a rickety old studio, cooking behind screens, the babies sleeping on shelves. But there seems to have been a very happy side to it?a great deal of love and many friends, all more or less poor, but artistic and congenial and high-thinking. The little lads, in their gentleness and fineness, show that phase of their upbringing. They have an air which many of my children, despite all the good manners I can pour into them, will forever lack. The mother died in the hospital a few days after Allegra's birth, and the father struggled on for two years, caring for his brood and painting like mad?advertisements, anything?to keep a roof over their heads. He died in St. Vincent's three weeks ago?overwork, worry, pneumonia. His friends rallied about the babies, sold such of the studio fittings as had escaped pawning, paid off the debts, and looked about for the best asylum they could find. And, Heaven save them! They hit upon us! Well, I kept the two artists for luncheon,?nice creatures in soft hats and Windsor ties, and looking pretty frayed themselves,?and then started them back to New York with the promise that I would give the little family my most parental attention. So here they are, one little mite in the nursery, two in the kindergarten-room, four big packing-cases full of canvases in the cellar, and a trunk in the store-room with the letters of their father and mother. And a look in their faces, an intangible spiritual something, that is their heritage.

J. F. Disentangled himself from her endearments, and emerged, rumpled as to hair, but with a firm-set jaw. He set her on her feet, but retained her little doubled-up fist. "This is the kid for me," he said. "I don't believe I need look any further." I explained that we complete separate little Allegra from her brothers; but the more I objected, the stubborner his jaw became. We went back to the library, and argued about it for half an hour. He liked her heredity, he liked her looks, he liked her spirit, he liked
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 485
her. If he was going to have a daughter foisted on him, he wanted one with some ginger. He'd be hanged if he'd take that other whimpering thing. It wasn't natural. But if I gave him Allegra, he would bring her up as his own child, and see that she was provided for the rest of her life. Did I have any right to cut her out from all that just for a lot of sentimental nonsense? The family was already broken up; the best I could do for them now was to provide for them individually. "Take all three," said I, quite brazenly. But, no, he couldn't consider that; his wife was an invalid, and one child was all that she could manage. Well, I was in a dreadful quandary. It seemed such a chance for the child, and yet it did seem so cruel to separate her from those two adoring little brothers. I knew that if the Bretlands adopted her legally, they would do their best to break all ties with the past, and the child was still so tiny she would forget her brothers as quickly as she had her father. Then I thought about you, Judy, and of how bitter you have always been because, when that family wanted to adopt you, the asylum wouldn't let you go. You have always said that you might have had a home, too, like other children, but that Mrs. Lippett stole it away from you. Was I perhaps stealing little Allegra's home from her? With the two boys it would be different; they could be educated and turned out to shift for themselves. But to a girl a home like this would mean everything. Ever since baby Allegra came to us, she has seemed to me just such another child as baby Judy must have been. She has ability and spirit. We must somehow furnish her with opportunity. She, too, deserves her share of the world's beauty and good?as much as nature fitted her to appreciate. And could any asylum ever give her that? I stood and thought while Mr. Bretland impatiently paced the floor. "You have those boys down and let me talk to them," Mr. Bretland insisted. "If they have a spark of generosity, they'll let her go." I sent for them, but my heart a solid lump of lead. They were still missing their father; it seemed merciless to snatch away that darling baby sister, too. They came hand in hand, sturdy, fine little chaps, and stood solemnly at attention, with big, wondering eyes fixed on the strange gentleman. "Come here, boys. I want to talk to you." He took each by a hand. "In the house I live in we haven't any little baby, so my wife and I decided to come here, where there are so many babies without fathers and mothers, and take one home to be ours. She will have a beautiful house to live in, and lots of toys to play with, and she will be happy all her life?much happier than she could ever be here. I know that you will be very glad to hear that I have chosen your little sister." "And won't we ever see her any more?" asked Clifford. "Oh, yes, sometimes." Clifford looked from me to Mr. Bretland, and two big tears began rolling down his cheeks. He jerked his hand away and came and hurled himself into my arms. "Don't let him have her! Please! Send him away!" "Take them all," I begged. But he's a hard man. "I didn't come for an entire asylum," he said shortly. By this time Don was sobbing on the other side. And then who should inject himself into the hubbub but Dr. MacRae, with Allegra in his arms! I introduced them, and explained. Mr. Bretland reached for the baby, and Sandy held her tight. "Quite impossible," said Sandy, shortly. "Miss McBride will tell you that it's one of the rules of this institution never to separate a family."


"Miss McBride has already decided," said J. F. B. stiffly. "We have fully discussed the question." "You must be mistaken," said Sandy, becoming his Scotchest, and turning to me. "You surely had no intention of performing any such cruelty as this?" Here was the decision of Solomon all over again, with the two stubbornest men that the good Lord ever made, wresting poor little Allegra limb from limb. I despatched the three chicks back to the nursery and returned to the fray. We argued loud and hotly, until finally J. F. B. echoed my own frequent query of the last five months: "Who is the head of this asylum, the superintendent or the visiting physician?" I was furious with the doctor for placing me in such a position before that man, but I couldn't quarrel with him in public; so I had ultimately to tell Mr. Bretland, with finality and flatness, that Allegra was out of the question. Would he not consider Sophie?
The John Grier Home, January 14.
Dear Judy:?
Listen to this! J. F. Bretland read about our fire in a New York paper, (I will say that the metropolitan press made the most of the details,) and he posted up here in a twitter of anxiety. His first question was, "Is Allegra safe?" "Yes," said I. "Thank God!" he cried and dropped into a chair. "This is no place for children," he said severely, "and I have come to take her home. I want the boys, too," he added hastily before I had a chance to speak. "My wife and I have talked it over, and we have decided that since we are going to the trouble of starting a nursery, we might as well run it for three as for one." I led him to the library, where our little family has been domiciled since the fire, and ten minutes later, when I was called down to confer with the trustees, I left J. F. Bretland with his new daughter on his knee and a son leaning against each arm, the proudest father in the United States.
Suggestions: To take the place of Problems and Questions.
The class leader should obtain Daddy-Long-Legs and Dear Enemy so that the books may be reviewed for the members of the class. If you cannot find them in your public libraries, or obtain them from private individuals, send to McClurg & Company, of Chicago, and they will furnish them.
For you.
Lesson IV
Social Service
(Fourth Week in November)
INTELLECTUAL PROBLEMS
Julian and Vera
The last lesson discussed two children who were not, natively, very bright. According to the mental measurements they were
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 487
classified as "borderline" types. Because of their limited intelligence they had difficulties in their school careers, and special attention had to be given them to assist them in attaining their highest possible level. But it is not only the backward child who has difficulty in school. Children who are in the normal group (those who have I. Q.'s from 90 to 110) and even those who measure superior (I. Q. 110 to 120) sometimes fail to make satisfactory progress at school. The boy, Julian, age 13 had an I. Q. of 95. But had so many difficulties that he became a truant and was branded as a mean, vicious boy. Vera, age 10, had an I. Q. of 123, and was about to be dropped from her school because of inefficient work. Without the help of the mental test, and without a study of the physical, emotional and social make-up of these two children, they would undoubtedly have been considered stupid by both teacher and parents. Failure at school work is not a safe index to a child's intelligence. Failure may be the result of many other factors besides limited intelligence, so teachers and parents should exercise great caution in judging a child "backward" or "stupid" on the sole evidence of the inability of a child to perform the school work. It often happens that a child is retarded in his work because of some physical defect. A bright child with some eye trouble may have great difficulty to learn to read and spell, and if the defect is not detected and treated he may be considered slow and backward. A child who is hard of hearing is likewise handicapped in his school work and is in danger of school failure unless his ear defect is discovered and understood by the teacher. Children recovering from serious illness, or children with diseased tonsils or enlarged glands may be retarded in their school work, not because of mental dulness, but because of their lack of physical vigor. Not only physical defects but physical development affects a child's mental processes. An overgrown boy who is developed two or three years beyond his age may have serious difficulties at school. He may feel awkward and conspicuous in a class of children his own age, and he perhaps has no outlet in an ordinary grade school for his physical energies. With boys his own size, he could find outlets in trade work or athletics, but he could not compete with them in academic work. A boy of this type is likely to become irritable and restless, and because of his unhappiness and irritability may lose interest and even fail in work that he has the intelligence to perform. A normal child who is physically undeveloped may have a hard time to keep pace with schoolmates his own age, and who


have the same mental endowments. Not having the vigor of more normally developed children, he will perhaps only half complete his tasks and naturally receive lower grades. It is obvious, then, that children should be carefully studied before they are designated as stupid. The child who is in danger of failing in school work should be given mental examinations at various intervals. A thorough physical examination is of greatest importance, as it may reveal physical defects or abnormalities that are the direct cause of the child's failure. A study of the social and emotional factors in the child's life may likewise reveal the causes of maladjustment. Treatment of these physical, or social or emotional difficulties often saves the child from the rank of the "dull" and the "failures," and places him on the path of development and progress. The record of Julian and his school experience is not a pleasant one. Julian was not understood in the school, and it was not until he entered industry that he developed dependability and gained self-respect. His failure in school cannot be attributed to his stupidity, for his mental test showed that he had normal intelligence. It is interesting and instructive to observe the factors in his school life that made difficulties for him, and to note that with his removal from these irritating factors he showed no further manifestations of unruliness and unreliability. It, of course, is regrettable that this adjustment could not have been made in the school, giving him the advantage of additional years of school training. Julian had several difficulties, no one of which alone would have been very serious. In the first place, although a normal child, he was not as far advanced according to his age as the other members of his family. He had not been promoted three different times, although at thirteen he was only a year retarded. It is not difficult to imagine his humiliation at home, in a family where the children always "pass." Families, sometimes, have a way of being not too gentle in discussing one of the member's weaknesses. To add to his sense of failure, a brother two years younger was in the same grade with Julian, and this situation usually causes unhappiness for the older one. Julian, because of his maturity, had worked in the Summer and had associated with older boys. Their companionship was not entirely wholesome, but he undoubtedly admired their independence, and felt he was almost one of them. Realizing, then, his irritants in school and his feeling of maturity, it easily can be understood that the slap he received from his teacher was more than his self-respect could tolerate. He could think of only one thing to do?escape. When reality becomes intolerable, all persons seek an "escape"?either by
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 489
physically running away, or by unconscious mental devices such as day-dreaming, fainting, amnesia, etc. Julian's escape, playing truant from school, led him into difficulties with the juvenile officers and he was about to be sent to a Truant School. His parents interceded, so he was given an opportunity to attend a rural school, but because of a family quarrel he met new difficulties. He was then permitted to return home, and secured work with his father. Relieved of his struggle to compete at school work, and placed on a different plane as a wage-earner, he soon acquired steady habits and gained self-respect. Truancy should not be considered an offense punishable by certain penalties such as commitment to a Truant and Training School. The offender is a child, whose truancy is a symptom of some maladjustment in his home, or school, or mental or emotional life. The causes underlying his truancy should be carefully and sympathetically studied and treated by a skilled person. Julian was not a vicious boy in need of commitment. He was not a stupid boy. He was a normal boy, who was handicapped by his family's and the school's lack of understanding of his difficulties. Vera was a bright girl, whose I. Q. varied at different tests between 110 and 133. She had a nervous twitching of the eyes. For a time she was two years advanced for her real age, but now at the age of ten she remained in the fifth grade two years. She was permitted to enter the sixth grade but was demoted. The school was a private one, and all the members had I. Q.'s. As Vera was failing, she was asked to withdraw. It can easily be understood that Vera was nervous and neurotic, and that she cried frequently, when we learn that Vera was always under a strain and pressure. Her parents were too eager for her advance in school. Her father was a temperamental musician, interested only in her music, and her mother was attempting to give her daughter all the opportunities she missed in her own childhood. So Vera was urged beyond her physical endurance by the emotional strain placed on her by her parents. Because of this constant, intense drive to progress, Vera developed many nervous symptoms, including chorea (St. Vitus dance) and cross eye. These symptoms, with some simple treatment disappeared as soon as the child was relieved of the pressure placed on her by the school and parents. When it was explained that it would be a most trying experience to the girl to be dropped from the school, she was permitted to remain. With the removal of the fear of being dropped, her assurance returned and her school work improved.


The ability to advance in school does not depend alone on the I. Q. A child should not be pushed to the point where he is under a physical or nervous strain.
Reference: Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile?Julian and Vera?pages 103 to 112.
Questions and Problems
1. Why is the school failure of a child not a safe measure of backwardness?
2. Why are children with physical defects often retarded? What measures are taken in your school to detect physical defects?
3. How does physical over and underdevelopment affect school progress?
4. Why was Julian unhappy at school? What change might have made him more contented at school.
5. Why should truancy be considered a symptom of maladjustment?
6. Why were Vera's parents unwise in pushing her in school, even though she was unusually bright?
7. What nervous symptoms did she develop?
8. What are other symptoms of nervous or emotional strain?
We specialize in all branches of laundry work Let us relieve you of the worries of washday LAUNDRY Wasatch 2624 Quality Laundry 625 State Street SALT LAKE CITY —j Ji THE RADIUM VITALIZER WATER JAR Radium charged health water in the office, hotel, home or while traveling, imparts Health Spring quality to any drinking water. That which prolongs life is more to be desired than riches. All the benefits of noted Health Spring waters in America and Europe are available to you by means of the Radium Vitalizer in which is a deposit of Radium Substance sufficient to deliver an efficient gas charge to water for a LIFETIME. RADIOACTIVE WATER and its natural benefits are, in truth, a Divine gift to humanity The G. & H. Co.