Vol.32						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1904						No. 11


CONTENTS.
English Churchyards and Some Queer Epi-
	taphs.............................. Lydia D. Alder.	81
Mother’s Work................................................	82
New York Letter........... Emily W. Cummings	83
D. R. Meeting................................... E. B. W.	83
EDITORIAL.—Conference Luncheon and Rec-
	eption......................................................	84
	Editorial Notes........................................	84
	Daughters of the Pioneers.......................	84
Brief	History of the Stake Board Primary
	Association of the Salt Lake Stake.........
	.......................................... Ella W. Hyde	84
Elizabeth Pixton..............................................	85
Relief Society Nurse Class 1904.....................
	...................................... Emma A Empey	85
Mother’s Work.................................................	85
In Memoriam....................................................	87
Resolutions of Respect.....................................	87
International Quinquennial...............................	87
POETRY—Trust....................... J. A. Edgerton	81
	Loving Words................... Lydia D. Alder	83


TRUST.
	To be content,
		That is the best!
	Not to be indolent
		And simply rest,
But having done what duty calls to do,
And having been to your soul-impuls true,
Then worry not because you do not see
Results. Leave these unto the time to be.
Do what you can. Trust God for the event,
	And be content.
	To be content!
		Who in his soul
	Learns this accomplishment
		Has gained the whole.
He who can master self alone is great;
He who can work and likewise can wait,
Greatly deserve, and weary not the Lord
By constant intercessions for reward,
Know all will be returned that you have lent,
		And be content.
		To be content
			Is wisdom true!
		Know what for you is meant
			Will come to you.
Cry up the heights your motto, 'Onward, on!"
Then climb nor pause to count the distance
	gone.
Think not of self; but if some other soul
Is faint, assist and point him to the goal.
Thus mount and help until life's day is spent,
	And be content.
	To be content,
		This is the best!
	Life's sun and storm are blent,
		And both are blest
All glory love and joy that soul secures,
Who strives, and overcomes and who endures,
For God is all, and you with Him are rife-
Know this, and you have gained the goal of
	Life.
Take thou this blessing that is heaven-sent,
		And be content. 
						J. A. Edgerton.


[Column 1]
ENGLISH CHURCHYARDS AND SOME
		QUEER EPITAPHS.
	The churchyards of England! Graves of
the uncounted dead! The frailty and un-
certainty of human life so constantly in re-
membrance!
	Cities have grown up all around, and
over many of them, grass, high and dank,
waves in the wind that sobs and moans
among their headstones. In many instances
they are so worn by time that their letter-
ing cannot be distinguished.
	In the churchyard of Milton in Kent, the
scene is most touching. In the portion bear-

[Column 2]
ing date of the eleventh century and earl-
ier, the graves of those who must have been
the wealthy ones of the time, present a sad
picture. Those covered by solid slabs, with
head and foot stones, are upheaved, as
though from the effects of an earthquake,
but that is not the reason. O, no! this tells
of the return to dust, of all that was laid
here to sleep; the consequent settling down
of the stones speaks ominously.
	In some instances the head stone is much
the lowest; in others some other part.
Some up, some down, others cracked by the
elements to which they are ever exposed;
pieces falling off, some that are thick and
heavy, and some actually decaying. Noth-
ing to tell, who found a resting place here,
their names or estate. Thoughts of the
Resurrection come to the mind, more forci-
bly here, than almost any other place, the
ground seems to sway, and tremble, the
stones upheave as though the occupants
were about to come forth. But it is only
the destruction caused by time.
	The skull and cross bones are raised on
the head stones of many of the older graves.
What a hideous emblem! Like the doc-
trines of that time, they make one shudder.
Fit objects to accompany the belief, that in-
fants not a span long, were consigned to
the abode of fire and brimstone, if they had
not been sprinkled. This is one of the old-
est Churches in England. Its records going
back to 1100, A. D. l ke many others it is
built of small black, flint stones, put to-
gether with mortar and cement. About
one hundred feet up in the turret wall,
green ivy is growing out of the cement, be-
tween the stones, it looks so strange as
there is none, on any other part of the
building. How could it have gotten there
is the question. Life in an unexpected
place. Was a seed mixed with the mortar?
or did one cling to the moss, as it was
wafted on the wings of the wind? or did a
bird carry it there? The abuttments of the
Church are all covered with moss, but no
ivy only in this spot so high up. Its his-
tory none may tell. But there it is, serenely
looking over this city of the dead. The
graves, even of later years, are all grown
over with moss, that one must scrape it off,
to read the inscriptions. One low, plain
headstone, close by the walk, tells this
simple story. “Her mayden name was
Mary Smith, 1637.” The English long
“S,” is used, and “birth” is spelt “byerth.’’
Near this grave is a sun dial it has lately
been restored, and is really a fine one. It
was placed there about 150 years ago. Its
solid stone base, though so thick, has been
cracked twice across, but is now braced and
cemented together One can imagine time
laughing at the efforts, man puts forth, to
perpetuate anything. O, if only those hor-
rid skulls would not grin over the cross
bones among these scenes of desolation!
	The long dark grass unmown, neglected,
thick with the moss germs that creep among
it, what of its story? The answer is appar-
ent. Those who in ages gone, took pride in
those graves and watered them with the
tears of affection,—sacred, because of the
precious dust that sleeps there—have also

[Column 3]
joined the procession, that is marching on,
they in their turn have come here lying
down to rest: while the following genera-
tions, have gone into the world to other
lands, leaving their treasures behind,
“where the rude forefathers of the hamlet
sleep” The new part of the cemetery,
shows how the world has progressed. The
graves are neatly kept, white stones take
the place of grey: but they are not so strong,
and in a less number of years, than have
passed over those before described, no trace
of them will be found. Nice iron fences
surround the graves, while lovely flowers
and plants bloom over them On a stone
surrounding a grave, read the following:
“How glorious” a hand—pointing heaven-
ward—“are the feet of the righteous.”
	The lovely September weather, was one
to walk through the green lanes of Eng-
land. The day has been warm and balmy.
The sun is well rounded to the west, when
a visit to the old church at Tunstale is un-
dertaken. It is a lovely walk of two miles.
Entering the church, we find a workman
from London, who is repairing the organ,
and permits us to visit through the build-
ing. Many here too, are sleeping the last
earthly sleep. Some really fine monuments,
tell of the notable ones of other days. Some
are of clear yellow, white with roses and
leaves entwined, raised as a beau[-]iful bor-
der, all around the side they stand about
four feet high with Latin inscriptions on the
top, bearing date 12th century. Under the
stone floor are vaults, belonging to some of
the ancient families, some bearing only the
name. On a dark slab, over one just at the
foot of the channel, is the following: “In
memory of Lillian who died in the sure
hope of a glorious resurrection on the 4th
of January, 1809, aged 17 years. An error
in transposition, but it set the time of her
resurrection. In the church yard are some
also very queer. One reads to the memory
of M. Chambers. “What kind of a man he
was, the resurrection day will discover.”
	Here are some tall fine yew trees under
the wide spreading shade of one, are twenty-
five raised mounds. A quaint winding
path ascends to the church-yard, flowers
blooming all along the way while some del-
icate tea roses, adorn the surrounding plots.
Among the more modern, on a white stone
is an angel in gold, raised on the marble,
wings and all. It is a pretty place though
the grass here, is high and dark also.
	The city cemetery in Sittingbourne, the
walks are wide and white; lawns well kept,
white shrubs of various kinds, trimmed in-
to fantastic shapes, add to the beauty, and
general effect. It is laid out on a sloping
hill, not too steep, but rolling. Whether
one looks upon it from the main entrance,
or the one from the Recreation ground, it
is equally enchanting. It is strictly mod-
ern. The stones and crosses are of fine
white marble. On the graves bloom many
red geraniums, which show so plainly
among the tomb stones, taking away the
cemetery look by their warmth of color.
Near the main entrance stands the residence
of the keeper, almost buried among trees
and flowers. A short distance away, is the


building, with a high covered arch, on one
side the church, on the other the chapel.
Services are conducted in either, according
to the belief of the departed. Many fune-
rals drive straight through to the arch,
when the coffin is borne in on the shoulders
of six men.
	If the family is wealthy, the mlnister of
the Church of England clothed in his
black and white robes, proceeds down to
the entrance gate, and meets the procession,
reading as he slowly walks along in a
drawling, mournful voice, "I am the Res-
urrection and the life; whoso believeth in
me though he be dead, yet shall he be made
alive."
	The wealthy dead of the town are mostly
buried here. The trees attract attention,
so many varieties; some from other lands,
Scotland, America and elsewhere. Numer-
ous inscriptions many from the Holy Book
are written on the stones, while verses
adorn others, expressing the feelings of
those who mourn. Here are a few of the
original ones.
"Vain to the dead are tears, and vain is praise;
And vain each fond memorial we can raise;
The grave should teach, the grave should e'er im-
	part,
Such truths as melt the eye, and mend the heart."
"Sleep on beloved husband, take thy rest;
Lay down thy head upon thy Savior's breast;
We loved thee well, but Jesus loved thee best."
	"I shine in the light of God,
		His likeness stamps my brow;
	Through the shadow of Death, my feet
			have trod
		And I reign in glory now."
"He has gone, and the grave hath received hiim'
	It was Jesus who called him away;
He has gone to the Lord who redeemed him,
	From the night to the splendor of day."
		"Faint not for fear, His arms all near,
			He changeth not, and thou art dear;
		Only believe and thou shalt see
			That Christ is all in all to thee."
							LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.
BEAVER STAKE.
	The object of Mother’s Work is to help
bring mankind to a higher standard through
the development, advancement and better-
ment of mothers.
	“Water does not rise higher than its
fountain.” “Nations do not rise higher or
faster than their women are climbing the
paths of progress.”
	“Mother, how divine your mission
		Here upon this natal sod!
	Keep, oh keep the young heart open
		Always to the breath of God.
	All true trophies of the ages
		Are from mother-love impearled;
	For the hand that rocks the cradle
		Is the hand that rules the world!”
Lesson I.—Pre-existencee.
	Ref. Job 38:3-7; Doc. and Cov., sec. 76:
13; Book of Mormon, II Nephi, 25; 12.
	I. Pre-natal Individuality.
	Ref. Gen. 25:21-24; Doc. and Cov., sec.
29:36; Rev. 12; 7-12; Pearl of Great Price,
pp. 9, 41.
	II. Pre-natal Influences.
	a. Heredity—ancestral characteristics and
influences. b. Parental influences, espec-
ially the mother’s. Judges 13:1-5. c.
Dwell on and emphasize which influence
should be courted and encouraged and
which restrained or avoided.
	III. Influence of Environments—mental-
ly, morally, socially, spiritually and physi-
cally.

[Column 2]
Lesson II.—Mortal Existence.
	Mortal existence—The union of the spirit
and element.
	I. Object of mortal existence—That we
may receive a fulness of joy which can
only be obtained through experience gained
in a mortal state. Doc and Cov., 93:33,
34.
	II. Channel of mortal existence—Parent-
hood—the only channel through which this
object may be attained.
	a. Importance of parenthood. Millions
of spirits yet unborn who are entitled to
mortal existence. We who have received
this blessing, are under moral obligation to
in turn do our part for those who are yet to
receive bodies. (The first great command-
ment, Gen. 1:28). To what extent are we
obligated to fulfill this divine injunction?
b. Reproductive faculties—The greatest
given by God to man. The highest penal-
ties attached to the abuse of these faculties
—Morally, intellectually, socially, spiritu-
ally and physically. What bearing does
the second commandment have on this sub-
ject? Exodus, 20:5, 6.
Lesson III. —Motherhood
	“The mother in her office holds the key
of the soul; and she it is who stamps the
coin of character.”
	1.True mother-love.
	a. Compare true mother-love with vanity.
b.Will true mother-love shield a child from
all responsibility and hardship? c. From
just punishment or reproof? d. The grati-
fication of the child’s desires or the mother's
present convenience, will not be considered
in preference to the ultimate good of the
child.
Lesson IV—Infancy.
	I. Influence of the mother.
		“Would you know the baby’s skies?
		Baby s skies are mother’s eyes—
		Mother’s eyes and smiles together
		Make the baby’s pleasant weather!
		Mother, keep your eyes from tears,
		Keep your heart from foolish fears,
		Keep your lips from dull complaining
		Lest the baby thinks its raining.”
	a. Whether we will or not, it is at the
cradle that education begins. b. How do
a mother’s looks and tone of voice affect the
infant physically? 
	II. Physical care.
	a. The bath—Cleanliness is next to God-
liness. Explain the benefits of bathing. Is
it wise to bathe delicate babies daily? b.
Dress. Comfort the primary consideration.
c. Food. Regularity. Great care should
be taken in the selection, preparation and
quantity of artificial food. d. Benefits of
sufficient sleep taken regularly. e. Neces-
sity of fresh air and sunshine to the well-
being and development of the baby. f. The
evil effects of excitement.
Lesson V.— Childhood--Physical Develop-
	ment.
	I. Food.
	a. Plain, nourishing and easily digested.
b. Name suitable foods. c. Condiments
and too much sweets and meats should be
avoided. d. Cultivate proper appetites
while young. e. Watch the digestion.
	II. Clothing.
	a. Plain and loose. b. Bad effect of
high-heeled shoes. c. Benefits of going
barefoot.
	III. Necesssty of regular bathing and
care of the teeth.
	IV. Proper poise of the body necessary
to health and grace.

[Column 3]
	V. A reasonable amount of work should
be provided to properly develop brain and
muscle.
	VI. Give the good effects of ventilation
and airing of beds.
Lesson VI.—Power of Example.
	I. Example a more effective teacher than
precept.
	II. Parents’ words and actions are re-
flected in the children, therefore the import-
ance of speaking proper and pure language.
	III. Consider the degrading effects of
slang, impure language, indecent jokes and
loud laughter.
	IV. Profanity—Third commandment.
	V. Gossip, evil and lightly speaking and
irreverence for sacred things. Beware of
destroying the influence of teachers and re-
ligious and secular authority by making
slighting remarks of same.
Lesson VII.— Obedience and Order.
	I. Necessity of obedience.
	II. Value of prompt obedience.
	III. Obedience the parent of order. Or-
der is the best manager of time, the prime
agent in private economy, accumulator of
wealth, the preserver of peace and the pro-
moter of home comfort and happiness.
	a. How does order put confusion to
flight? b. Give the value of order in the
expenditure of means and in the manage-
ment of housework. c. Explain how order
and industry are the soul of household
thrift.
	IV. Teach orderly habits.
	a. Economy of putting things in their
proper places.
Lesson VIII.—Industry.
	Labor—All labor is noble and holy. Let
thy great deeds be a prayer to thy God.
1. Industry is the soul of thrift. Explain
how. 2. Explain how industry promotes
health and dispels melancholy. 3. Why is
constant, wholesome occupation necessary
for the intellectual, moral, spiritual and
physical growth of she child? 5. Give the
benefits of children waiting upon themselves
as much as possible and bearing some re-
sponsibility in the household. 5. What is
the best plan for creating in children a love
for work? Is it wise for mothers to hire
their children to labor?
Lesson IX.—Discipline.
	“Train up a child in the way it should go
and when it is old it will not depart there-
from.” 1. How does discipline contribute to
the pea e, order and comfort of the home?
2. Give the advantage of children who are
trained at home, by wise parents, in the
habits of industry, thrift, attention, study
and cheerful obedience, over those who are
not. 3. Name the blessings of children
who are disciplined by parents in purity,
love, gentleness, kindness and a sacred rev-
erence for right and the Great Creator and
Redeemer. 4. Necessity of proper parental
control. a. Unity and harmony necessary
in successful parental government. b. Par-
ents cannot hope to govern successfully un-
less they practice self control, 5. Show the
bad effects of deceit and broken promises of
parents to children. 6. Discuss the best
methods of controling and punishing chil-
dren.
Lesson X.—Deportment.
	1. Respect to parents, brothers, and sis-
ters. a. Children who respect the authority
in the home will be respectful to the auth-


ority of school teachers, their superiors in
temporal affairs and the authority of God,
which is manifested through His prophets.
	2. Self-respect. a. Show how children
who are trained in proper self-respect will
not stoop to do anything mean improper, or
unbecoming. 3. Show the beauties of con-
sideration and kindness to the aged and in
firm, sympathy for the maimed, crippled
and deformed and charity for those who
falter and fail. 4. Explain the necessity
of training children to respect public and
private property. 5. Due reverence for
houses of worship and all other sacred
places and things, also the Lord’s anointed.
Lesson XI.—Gospel Training.
	The commandments of God concerning
the rearing of our children. Doc. and Cov.
68, Sec. beginning at verse 25. 1. Give
methods of promoting faith in the child. a.
Show how prayer develops and strengthens
its faith. b. Explain how faith in the
promises of God helps children to resist
temptation. 2 The necessity of parents
teaching their children true repentance. a.
Give the evil effects upon the child of un-
repented sins. Forgiveness is the sure re-
ward of repentance. 3. Prayer a divine
command. The authorized channel of com-
munication between God and man in all
ages. a. Object—to direct the mind of man
to his Creator, b. Show the necessity and
give the benefits of prayer. c. Discuss the
proper mode and time for prayer. d. Give
the value of children taking part in family
prayer and asking a blessing upon the food.
e. Parents, particularly the mother divine-
ly commisioned to direct the infant mind to
God through prayer.
Lesson XII.—Continuation of Gospel Train-
	ing.—Tithing
	1. Law of God. Lev. 27th ch., 30-34.
Doc and Cov. 119 sec. a. Name some of
the blessings to be gained by obedience to
the law of tithing. Mal. 3: 10; 11, 12
Prov. 3. b. Parents should teach and train
their children that one tenth of their earn-
ings and income after they become mem-
bers of the Church, belongs to the Lord,
and that they have no right to use it. 2. It
is an imperative duty of parents to see that
their children attend regularly the Sunday
School, Primary Association and Religion
Class, and that all parts are prepared for
the same. a. Discuss how these organiza-
tions are especial helps to parents in rearing
and training their children in the fear and
admonition of the Lord. b. Explain how the
child is benefitted spiritually, morally and
intellectually by attending these organiza-
tions. Parents must live the Gospel them-
selves, if they expect their children to be-
come good Latter-day Saints.
			ALICE G. WHITE,
			MARY A. WHITE,
			MARY E. GUNN HARRIS,
			SARAH C. MAESER,
			MARY FERNLEY,
						Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Some Utah women have sailed on board
the Cretic expecting to attend while ab-
sent the International Congress to be held
in Berlin, Germany. Alice Merrill Horne,
Lydia D. Alder, Miss Ludina Christenson
and Miss May Alder. Mrs. Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Mi[-]s Foster, Mrs. Mary S.
Horne and Miss Lillian Horne intend to
sail June 2, on the Cretic.


LOVING WORDS
O, loving words, speak loving words,
	The world is full of care
Speak loving words, O, loving words
	And with them breathe a pray’r,
Speak loving words, such loving words,
	The path is rocky-steep
So oft we stumble, lose the way,
	The road is hard to keep.
Oft times the fair day ends in gloom
	Fierce storm clouds break o’er head
The sun goes down, e’en at its noon,
	Its glory—warmth all fled
Life’s storms cross o’er and o’er our way,
	Such bitter tears are shed
As in the chamber lone we weep,
	Alone but for our dead.
Speak loving words, speak loving words
	They soothe the heart, the tear,
It is the way the Master trod
	E’en was the sparrow dear.
The sad, distressed and weary bless.
	They unto God are dear;
For lo, the Savior waiting stands
	To wipe away each tear.
Speak loving words, speak loving words
	The broken heart, bind up,
So in the trial you are blessed
	Though ’tis a bitter cup.
Some day, your Savior you will meet,
	His glorious face will see;
He wept in anguish on the sod;
	Prayed in Gethsemane.
Then loving words He’ll speak to you.
	Who helped the suff’rer live,
And crowns and kingdoms wildering fair,
	To you He yet may give.
Then feed the poor, the needy aid.
	Speak loving words so sweet,
Thus endless blessings will be yours,
	Love twines them round your feet.
					LYDIA, D. ALDER.


NEW YORK LETTER.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	I enjoy reading your little paper, which is al-
ways full of instructive reading, I take great
pleasure in watching the progress that is being
made by our Relief Society organizations at home
and throughout the world.
	I am sorry to note that so many of our faithful
workers seem to be passing away. Only a few
seem to be left to tell us of the interesting inci-
dents of the early days of the Church.
	We held a meeting here in New York on the
17th March, in commemoration of the first Relief
Society organization, as I presume was done in
most of the places where there is a society. We
had a nice program; and spent an agreeable
evening.
	Our society here, though not very large, is in
good condition, and all seem to be desirous of do-
ing what they can for its advancement. It is
composed mostly of those who have embraced the
Gospel here, though a number of our sisters from
home have been enrolled from time to time; but,
of course, their stay is of short duration. We have
felt, however, their support, both in an intellectual
as well as a financial way, for which we feel very
grateful.
	The sisters here are energetic, and full of faith,
and are anxious to learn all they can. and what
they can best do to forward the interests of the
cause.
	We have been able to do quite a good deal of
charitable work. Our means is obtained mostly
by entertainments and from members of the soci-
ety, as it has not been deemed practical as yet to
carry out the system we have at home, the distanc-
es between the homes of the Saints being so
great. Some are located here, others in Brooklyn
and elsewhere.
	Most of our meetings are held here, but we en-
deavor to hold one every month in Brooklyn,
where much interest is always taken and a good
spiri t prevails.
	We hold sewing classes quite often, but many
that woul d like to attend are holding positions
and are engaged during the day, so that our at-
tendance is small; but we have been able to ac-
complish a good deal in aiding those who are not
able to get such work done any other way. As
soon as we relieve those conditions we intend
making articles to sell—we have already a quilt
almost completed, which we think will bring a
nice sum.
	We have devoted much of the winter to


studying the “Women of the Bible.” It has
been very interesting, and I assure you very
profitable. We also hold a monthly meeting
either at my house or at President McQuar-
rie’s. In this meeting the Elders are invited to
meet with us. A paper is read by one of the sis-
ters, and the topic fully discussed. A great deal
of interest is taken, and much valuable instruc-
tion is derived from such meetings.
	The sisters express great satisfaction from the
lessons and experience that they are having,
which they feel are calculated to better fit them
for the defense of their faith, which is so often
required of them, especially when the “Mormon
question” is agitated, as it is so frequently is by
the press.
	I feel very much endeared to the sisters associ-
ated with me, whom I believe to be loyal and true
Latter-day Saints. Many of them are called upon
to make great sacrifices and have much prejudice
to overcome, but through prayer and unbounded
faith are triumphant.
	The secretary has forwarded reports, or fur-
nished them, rather, to the conference, which I
presume you have received in due time.
	I had no idea of giving you such a detailed ac-
count when I started to write, but thinking that
you might want to hear something of what we
are doing here, I have ventured to trespass upon
your valuable time,
	With sincere regards, your sister in the Gospel,
						EMILY M. CUMMINGS.


D. R. MEETING.
	The regular monthly meeting of the U.
S. S. D. R. was held on Saturday, April 16,
at the residence of Mrs. T. G. Webber, at
3 p.m. Vice Regent Mrs. Phebe Young
Beatie presiding in the absence of the Re-
gent Mrs. I. M. W. Sears. Prayer was
offered by the chaplain Mrs. P. T. Farns-
worth and the reading of minutes and tran-
saction of miscellaneous business was at-
tended to as usual, after which the Secre-
tary Mrs. George A. Smith read the paper
prepared by the Regent. The subject was
General (Marquis) De La Fayette, and was
well written and contained much valuable
information concerning this great and good
man, the friend of Washington and of lib-
erty, that ought to be garnered in the
minds of every patriotic woman. Mrs.
Smith read the paper with much pathos as
though she loved her subject, and it was
very evident Mrs. Sears had put deep feel-
ing into its construction and arrangement.
Mrs. Mira Young Rossiter gave the story
which was quite diverting on account of its
giving much of the fashion of the La Fay-
ette period, and was quite apropos to the
time. Mrs. Richards, (mother of Mrs.
Webber) recalled some incidents concern-
ing these fantastic costumes worn some
years afterwards, and Mrs. E. B. Wells re-
membered hearing her mother tell many
times of meeting La Fayette on his last
visit to the United States. Mrs. Julia F.
Lund read with great fervor the Star
Spangled Banner and the Marsailles, the
National songs of both the countries La Fay-
ette loved so well.
	There were present three or four invited
guests, friends of the hostess, who seemed
to enjoy the meeting very much.
	The handsome parlor and library were
decorated with stars and stripes and the
colors of the Society; and delicions refresh-
ments were daintily served after which the
meeting adjourned to May 16, to be held at
the home of Mrs. George A. Smith.
						E.B.W.


Mrs Jennie Nelson of Ogden has been
elected by the Utah State Republican Con-
vention an alternate delegate to the National
Republican Convention. In a state where
women cast half the votes a woman delegate
should have been elected.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

			Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1904


CONFERENCE, LUNCHEON AND
			RECEPTION.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall in this city, Saturday, April 2,
1904, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and
at 2 p. m., as usual, President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. The stands were
very prettily decorated with flowers and
potted plants and presented a pleasing
appearance. The Relief Society banner,
which was made for the Jubilee of the
Church in 1880, was displayed upon the
organ. This banner is quite large and is
made of home made silk, heavily fringed
and handsome lettering. The Assem-
bly Hall was filled with sisters, and a few
brethren, and most of the stakes of Zion
were represented by officers, many of them
from long distances.
	A luncheon was given by the General
Relief Society at the noon hour, from 12
m to 2 p. m., at the residence of Bishop
W. J. Beatie, 55 N. West Temple, con-
venient to the Assembly Hall, and about
one hundred guests were entertained at
tables. It was a very pleasant affair and
gave the sisters from a distance an oppor-
tunity of meeting their president and coun-
selors and others in a social way, where
they could enter into conversation, exchange
greetings and get a little better acquainted
with each other.
	Monday evening, April 4, a reception
was tendered the Relief Society Stake pres-
dents and officers by the General Society,
at the residence of First Counselor, Annie
Taylor Hyde. Invitations had also been
issued to the First Presidency of the Church,
the Patriarch, the Apostles, Presidents of
Seventies, Presiding Bishops and other
Church authorities, also to the Presidency
and General Board of the Young Ladies’
and Young Men’s Associations.
	The elegant parlors and dining hall of
Brother and Sister Hyde’s residence were
handsomely decorated for the occasion and
the affair was altogether one long to be
remembered. There was delightful music
and some vocal selections given by Sister
Maggie C. Hull and others. Brief ad-
dresses were made by the General Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith and by President
Jane S Richards, of Weber Stake, Presi-
dent Emma S Smith of Snowflake Stake
Arizona, President Ann C. Woodbury, of
St. George Stake and others.
	The evening was most enjoyable, and
as this is the first reception given by the
General Society to the officers of the sever-


al stakes and missions, it is an event wor-
thy of special importance and one of sig-
nificance.


[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.
	The annual meeting of the Daughters of
the Pioneers was held at the residence of its
Founder-General Sister Annie Taylor Hyde
on April 11, 1904. Meeting opened with
prayer by the Chaplain, Sister Margaret P.
Young, Counselor Isabel M. Whitney
Sears, took charge of the meeting in the ab-
sence of the President, Sister Alice Merrill
Horne, Counselor Elizabeth S. Wilcox was
also present, Secretary read the minutes of
the last annual meeting—and the names of
the daughters whose papers were ready,
were read by the Secretary and they were
admitted to membership in the Society.
	The program for the year which had been
prepared by a Committee consisting of the
President Alice Merrill Horne, [-]er Coun-
selors, Sisters Isabel M. W. Sears and Eliz-
abeth S. Wilcox also, the Historian of the
Society, Sister Edna L. Smith and Treasurer
Minnie Horne James was submitted for ap-
proval and accepted by the meeting.
	Sister Alice K. Smith gave the history of
the Society with a sketch of its Founder
Annie Taylor Hyde which was very inter-
esting and contained many important items
valuable to the Society which is one of
great historical value to the Latter-day
Saints perpetuating the memory of heroes
and heroines, the pioneers of the Great
American Desert.
	Sister Zina Young Card one of our
most eloquent speakers addressed the meet-
ing, her subject being, “A Broken and a
Contrite Heart,” dealing with the martyr-
dom of the Prophet and Patriarch of the
Church. A most pathetic theme which she
handled with the true spirit of a Saint in
very deed.
	Remarks appropriate to the occasion were
made by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson. The meet-
ing must have been significant of the great
work which the Society has undertaken,
viz., to follow out the plan of forming com-
panies of tens, fifties and hundreds as did
the original pioneers.
	The President has mapped out work that
seems almost marvelous in theory and scope
and will give those engaged in its develop-
ment an experience specially educational in
the history of the past half century.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Pioneers was held on Sat-
urday April 23, 1904, at the home of Sister
Phebe Young Beatie at 3:30 p. m. Counse-
lor Isabel M. W. Sears in charge. As it was
a very stormy day the attendance was
light, but the meeting was enjoyable, after
prayer by the Chaplain, Miss Phebe
Scholes gave a reading from the journal of
her grandfather, President Wilford Wood-
ruff which gave an accurate description of
the entrance of the pioneers into the Salt
Lake Valley and of other important inci-
dents in connection thereto, Sister Clarissa
S. Williams read in a tender voice and most
effective style the hymn, “A poor wayfaring
man of grief,” before commencing Sister
Williams gave in brief a good word picture
of the author of the hymn and brief sketch
of his life work.
	Sister Lucy Russell Pratt read a paper
written by herself on her mother’s life,
Sister Hannahette Snively Pratt a pioneer
of 47 and combined with it something of
the history of her aunt her mother’s sister,

[Column 2]
Susannah S. Young, their lives were in
many respects similar. Sister Nettie Y. Eas-
ton was invited to speak of her mother, Sis-
ter Clara D. Young the first pioneer woman,
and said a few words in praise of her noble
character, mentioned some of her charitable
deeds. After the closing exercises meeting
adjourned to meet at Sister W. N. Will-
ams, May 24, 1904.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The sisters will please excuse the minutes
of the General Conference of the Relief So-
ciety not appearing in this number as it
was impossible to prepare them in time.
They will appear in the May number of the
paper.
	There are now four new Stake organiza-
tions of the Relief Society in Salt Lake Co.
Liberty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Ensign, as
yet no Conferences of these Relief Society
organizations have been held, but will be
probably in the near future.
	Sisters Mary Alice C. Lambert and Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson have been appointed by
the General President to attend Cache Stake
Relief Society Conference at Logan, April
30, and Hyrum Stake Conference May 2,
1904.
	On Friday, April 22, 1904, the first Re-
lief Society Conference of the Blackfoot
Stake of Zion was held in Shelley, Idaho,
the newly elected President Ann H. Walk-
er presiding. Sisters Emily S. Richards
and Priscilla Smith representatives from the
General Board attended the Conference and
gave instructions.
	By invitation of the President of Relief
Society Morgan Stake, Sisters Mary Alice
C. Lambert and Lydia D. Alder attended
the Relief Society Conference of that Stake
of Zion, on Sunday, April 17. Sister Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson attended the Relief So-
ciety Conference of Davis Stake held at
Centerville, April 28, by invitation.
	We have on hand minutes of many Re-
lief Society Conferences and Seventeenth of
March celebrations, we are glad the sisters
send them in and such condensed minutes
as we can find space for will be used, but
the material is at hand to help make history,
and therefore it is not sent in vain. The
Outlines of Mother’s Work have taken
much of the space in our little paper and
we trust our sisters understand and appre-
ciate this fact as it has been with a view of
helping the branches in their respective lo-
calities.


BRIEF HISTORY OF THE STAKE BOARD
	PRIMARY ASSOCIATION OF THE SALT
	LAKE STAKE.

	After the first organization of the Primary
Associations by Sister Eliza R. Snow, the 
associations increased so rapidly throughout
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion that it was de-
cided to organize in a Stake capacity.
	The first stake organization was effected
on June 19, 1880, Ellen C. Clawson being
chosen as president, with Camilla C. Cobb
as first and Annie Davis (now Watson) as
second counselors, and Vilate Young as
secretary. Shortly after Lydia A. Wells
was appointed second counselor, Annie
Davis having resigned
	The sisters held these positions until the 
death of Sister Clawson which occurred in
1896, she having held the office of president
for seventeen years, during which time a


[Column 1]
number of changes had been made in the
secretaryship, Vilate Young was followed
by Caroline C. Raleigh, as secretary, after
which Bessie Dean was appointed. Ida
Whipple followed Sister Dean and held the
position until 1896, when she offered her
resignation. During the seventeen years
of the existence of this organization great
progress had been made in the advancement,
of Primary work in the Salt Lake Stake
	On September 12, 1896, a reorganization
of the Stake Board was effected. Camilla
C. Cobb having been a very efficient work-
er was selected as president, and she chose
for her counselors Lydia A Wells and
Mary L. Morris, with Ella W. Hyde as
secretary. Catherine Wells as treasurer,
Julia C. Howe and Ida Whipple Taylor as
aids.
	As the associations multiplied and the
Primary work increased, President Cobb
found it necessary to call more aids to her
assistance, and on June 5, 1897 she ap-
pointed Jane S. Hill and Lauretta Corn-
wall as aids to visit the country wards.
	On May 7, 1898, she also appointed as
aids to the Stake Board, Jessie P. Jones,
Fanny Wool[-]ey, Mary A. Tudenham and
Eliza Bergen, and soon after this Millie P.
Bassett and Clara Beebe were added to the
list of aids. As the work advanced, more
aids were required and on May 4, 1900.
Betsy Howarth and Josephine Woolley
were appointed.
	On August 4, 1900, the organist, Sister
Laura Cushing, having resigned, Lizzie
Thomas was appointed stake organist. On
March 2, 1901, Mary L. Morris offered her
resignation as second counselor in the Stake
Board on account of ill health, and Fanny
Woolley was appointed in her place, and in
September of the same year, Sister Woolley
having been called on a mission to Colorado,
Millie P. Bassett was chosen to fill that
vacancy.
	As the ranks of the aids were reduced,
Olive Pixton was appointed on October 12,
1901 to act in that capacity. On May 3,
1902, Emma Jeremy and Lucy Chanberlain
were selected, and on May 2, 1903, Mary
T. Smith was appointed an aid, making a
complete band of noble, energetic workers
in the Primary cause.
	On April 11, 1903, Nellie Penrose Whit-
ney was appointed Stake Chorister, and
with her musical experience, combined
with the efficient service of Lizzie Thomas,
the musical department has been one of
the most pleasing features in the Primary
conferences and entertainments.
	In January, 1902, the Children’s Friend
the organ of the Primary Associations,
published by the General Board, was issued
and has since been a guide to the associa-
tion, lessons being prepared for each grade.
Since its introduction into the associations,
they have been conducted more uniformly,
and better work has been done.
	Since the reorganization of the Stake
Board in 1896, great improvement has
been made in Primary work in the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion. Through the untir-
ing efforts and wide experience of President
Comilla C. Cobb, and the aid and co-oper-
ation of her co-laborers, the associations
have increased in numbers and member- 
ship, and have been raised to a much
higher standard of excellence than form-
erly.
	Too much praise cannot be given to
President Cobb for her untiring zeal for the
advancement of the work, for her moth-
erly counsel and advice, and her loving

[Column 2]
words of encouragement, which will ever
be remembered by those who received them,
and will be a guide to those who may con-
tinue in the work.
	The Primary Stake Board has now dis-
solved on account of the division of the
Salt Lake Stake, but the members of the old
Board will always hold in affectionate re-
membrance the years they labored together
with love in their hearts for each other and
the children for whom they labored.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ELIZABETH PIXTON.
	Sister Pixton, who was called suddenly
from this life, March 21, 1904, to join her
husband and loved ones who had gone be-
fore, had been for many years a conspicu-
ous figure in this vicinity; she was a wom-
an of great strength of character, and un-
common executive ability. She will be
missed in various ways, and in many
places. She was a woman of great integ-
rity to the Gospel and of a generous na-
ture, her good deeds will live in the mem-
ory of many whom she helped without
letting “her right hand know what the
left hand doeth,” according to the scrip-
ture.
	Sister Pixton was president of the Re-
lief Society of Taylorsville at the time of
her death, and had held the office over
twenty years.
	A sketch of her life was published in
the EXPONENT, February 15, 1900, short-
ly after she had celebrated her 80th birth-
day anniversary. On that happy occasion
about three hundred people assembled in
her honor at the meeting house in Tay-
lorsville. Many tributes were given her at
that time of affection and friendship, and
she was honored by all present each of the
speakers testifying to the high esteem in
which she was held by the community,
and her liberality to the poor and needy
was favorably commented upon.—E. B. W.
	The Relief Society officers of the Granite
Stake of Zion, to which she belonged,
wishing to do honor to her memory have
prepared the following—
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our much esteemed sister and
colaborer, has by the hand of divine prov-
idence been removed from our midst, and
has, we feel confidently assured, gone to a
better world, we, her sisters, who know
of her loving deeds and appreciate her
many noble qualities, desire to express
our tender sympathy for the bereaved fam-
ily, and to acknowledge her labors and
ministrations of kindness, as a member of
the Relief Society, and also as a friend and
neighbor in the best sense of the word.
Therefore be it
	Resolved, we do humbly testify that
charity and humility were leading traits of
her character, and that her last act the day
before her death was one of charity, and
that her simple and unassuming manner
was beautifully illustrated in her last re-
quest, “that her coffin should be plain and
no flowers placed upon it, as the money
could be used to better advantage.”
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family of the de-
ceased and that they and the sisters of the
society over which she presided so long
may follow her noble example of diligence
and faithfulness.
	Resolved that these resolutions be re-


corded in our stake record and also pre-
sented to the family and published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMA S. WOODRUFF,
MARY P. YOUNG,
CATHARINE H. BROCKBANK,
	In behalf of Granite Stake Relief Society.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5.
	The above class will commence Septem-
ber 19th, 1904, continuing eight months.
Four lessons a week will be given by Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, the class instructor,
and lectures by other physicians and sur-
geons of Salt Lake. There will also be a
course of lectures on cooking and ot her im-
portant subjects connected with the nurse
profession, by members of the General
Board of the Relief Society or by those
whom they may appoint.
	Charge of tuition $10 00.
	Students will furnish their own text
books designated by the Class Instructor.
	The students shall each sign a contract
to nurse for charity for seventy-five days or
whatever pay shall be designated by the
superintendent for two years from the date
of graduation.
	Anyone desiring to take the nurse course
and not paid for by the Relief Society of
her ward may do so by paying the ten dol-
lar fee herself and signing the contract.
All correspondence on this subject should
be addressed to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55
N. West Temple Street.
				EMMA A. EMPEY,
	Superintendent Relief Society Nurses’
		Classes.


MOTHERS' WORK.
PAROWAN STAKE.
Lecture I.—Pre-existence of spirits.
	Sing Hymn, “O My Father.” Give a
talk explaining the doctrine expressed in
the hymn. Speaker read the hymn, as proof
that we have a Father in Heaven. Prove
that all existed with God and His only be-
gotten Son before we came to this earth.
What was our condition in our pre-exis-
tant state?
	References.—John, 1 14. John 16, 28.
John 17th, 5. Heb. 12, 9. Matt. 6. 9. Job
38, 4 7. Num. 27, 16. Ecc 12, 7. John 3,
2. Jer 1, 4-5. Rev. 12, 7-9. As set forth in
“Woman who art thou, What is thy Mis-
sion, By Pres. John Taylor. Added upon.
Jude 6.
	Questions.—1. What proofs have we
that we have a Father and Mother in
Heaven? Read explanation on marriage in
Compendium, also Gen. 1, 7. 2. Had we
developed as thoroughly as we could in the
spirit world? 3. Did we all keep our first
estate?
Lecture 2.—Object of existence.
	(a) Whence we came, (b) Who we are,
(c) Where are we going? (d) Object is to
benefit humanity and to gain eternal life.
	References.—(a) Pearl of Great Price,
page 32. Alma 13, 3-7. Eph. 1, 3-4-5.
Tit. 1, 2. (b) John 3, 2. Heb. 12, 9. (c)
I Nephi, 28, 8. Doc. and Cov. 43, 44-45.
Ecc. 12, 7. Pearl of Great Price, page 22.
Rev. 20, 6. Doc. and Cov. 29, II. (d)
Multiply and replenish the earth. Gen. 1,
28.
	Questions.—Will all get back to our
Father’s home? Doc. and Cov. 29, 9-14-21.
What was the first commandment given to
Adam and Eve? When was it given? How


[Column 1]
can we benefit humanity? How may we
gain eternal life.

Lecture 3.—Divinity of Parents Mission.

	Love and attributes as God planted them
in the human heart for a holy purpose. Mar-
riage a divine covenant for the propagation
of the race. Woman as a helpmate.
	References.—Read articles on marriage
(Com) John 5, 42. Tit. 3, 4. 1 Cor. 11, 11.
Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132. Sec. 49, 15-18.
1 Cor. 11, 3-12. Gen. 2, 24. Doc. and Cov.
Sec. 23. Gen. 2, 18.
	Questions.—Why is love implanted in
the human heart? 2. Is the mutual attrac-
tion of the sexes proper? 3 Enumerate the
ways in which women can be truly help-
mates. 4. When was woman divinely
chosen to be a mother? 5. What is truly
woman’s mission?

[-]ecture 4.

	(a) As mothers in Israel what manner
of women should we be? (b) Very prayer-
ful. (c) A sound mind in a sound body.
(d) Deportment to husband and children.
(e) Seek knowledge from all good sources,
truth, wisdom and the Holy Spirit. (f)
Motherhood a gift from God.
	References.—Doc and Cov. The prayer-
ful life by A. O. Woodruff, Young Wo-
man’s Journal Jan. 1[-]04. Eph. 5 chapter
22-25 vs.
	Questions.—1. What are some of the qual-
ifications necessary to be a true mother in
Israel? 2. Was the 25th Sec of the Doc.
and Cov. given for Emma Smith only? 3.
Should mothers devote their time entirely
to their home? 4. Why is it necessary to
keep our bodies sound and healthy? 5.
Why should we be careful in our deport-
ment around our home? 6. Is Motherhood
a gift from God?

Lecture 5—Prospective Mother.

	What shall we do to have our babies
healthy and happy? A life in harmony
with the gospel is the perfect example.
Discuss the physical needs of the body.
Freedom of dress, out door exercise, clean-
liness, food, fresh air and sunshine. Power
to guide and control oneself. Study well
one’s character before undertaking the grave
responsibility of Motherhood.
	Questions.—1. Give experiences what ef-
fect certain tendencies of the mother have
upon the child. 2. Does our temporal con-
dition effect our children? 3. To what ex-
tent should women exercise?

Lecture VI.

	Mental development, choice of literature.
The social life of the mother Spiritual de-
velopment, following the steps of the Sav-
ior. Parents may have the kind of spirits
they are worthy of.
	Questions.—1. What course should a
mother take in order that her child may
have the proper development? 2. What do
you think of mothers going into society
during this period? 3. Did the Roman and
Grecian nations honor prospective mothers?
4. Were children welcome by the Jewish
nation?

Lecture VII Care of the Infant.

	The baby’s wardrobe. How to care for
the infant. Discuss ventilation and sleep-
ing apartments. The baby’s food, when to
feed and quantity. Baby’s bath, baby’s ills
and how to treat them.
	Questions.—1. How should baby be

[Column 2]
dressed? 2. Why have flannel next to the
skin? Should the clothes be long or short?
3. Do you think a child should be fed at
regular intervals? 4. Why should a child
be bathed and how often? 5. Should a
baby learn to creep before it walks? 6.
Should a child be given water often? 7.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient,
what artificial food do you think best?

Lecture VIII.—First Years of the Child.

	Obedience is heavens first law. As the
twig is bent so the tree inclines. “Too
much indulgence has spoiled many a child,
too much love not one. Love brought the
child into the world and the more love we
give them the more we have for ourselves.”
“Love begets love.” Home is the child’s
world. Keep it uppermost in our
minds. One of the first steps is to gain
the child’s confidence. Habits are formed
in infancy.
	Questions.—What lessons of obedience
should a child learn in the first five years of
its life? 2 Illustrate love and indulgence.
3. In what way would we have more love
if we gave more? 4. Should we gratify the
child’s wishes about pleasure and outings?
5. How can we gain a child’s confidence?
6.What habits are formed in infancy?

Lecture IX.—Physical Development.

	Teach the child proper attitudes. Observ-
ance of the Word of Wisdom is essential to
physical development. The rights of chil-
dren in the home. Pay strict attention to
questions and give suitable answers. To
put children off or to send them away, what
effect does it have on the child’s character
	Questions.—1. What are proper attitudes.
2. How shall we entertain our children in
the home? 3. Should each child have some
part in keeping up the home? 4. What
effect has responsibility on character? 5.
How far should the freedom of a child ex-
tend in the home? 5. Why are idle mo-
ments dangerous to the child?

Lesson X.—Mental, Moral and Social
	Development.

	Overcome evil with good. Encourage
virtue and vice will disappear. Selection of
good books and companions should be
taught early in life. A mother’s influence.
The part a mother takes in the forming of
character cannot be over-estimated. It is a
social duty to be cleanly of speech, person
and dress.

	True politeness is to do and say,
	The kindest thing in the kindest way.

	Questions.—1. How can we overcome
evil with good? 2. Illustrate how we can
encourage virtue? 3. Name some good
books suitable for children of all ages. 4.
llustrate how a mother helps to form a
child’s character. 5. Why should we be
clean of speech, person and dress?

Lecture XI.—Spiritual Development.

	Each day should properly begin with
prayer. Peace, love and contentment come
from within. Christ the true ideal. One
life which embodies all the virtues, should
be made the example in the life of all. Give
special religious training in order that hon-
or for the priesthood may be fostered. Why
should the lesson of obedience be one of the
foundation stones of character building.
How is obedience connected with our spir-
tual progress?
	Questions.—1. Why should each day begin
with prayer? 2. Do favorable temporal sur-

[Column 3]
roundings make us contented and happy?
3. How do parents constantly teach morals
good and bad to their children? 4. How
soon does a child have a moral sense? 5.
What special religious training should be
given in order that children may obey or
honor the Priesthood?

Lecture XII.— The Development of the
	Child to Man and Womanhood.

	Teach the child the sacred laws of life be-
fore he gains the knowledge from evil
minds. Be sure you have his confidence
and then pay strict attention to every need.
Assist the children in choosing suitable
companions and books. During the devel-
opment period the boy and girl should be
tenderly and wisely guarded.
	Questions—Do you think children should
be taught the sacred laws of life, and how
soon? How can we gain their confidence,
and what are their needs? How can we as-
sist our children in choosing their compan-
ions and books? To what extent should
our boys and girls be allowed to participate
in dancing and other exciting pastime?

		WOODRUFF STAKE.

Lecture I.—Mission of Woman.

	a. Influence of womanhood. b. Trials
and temptations of woman. c. What are
the accomplishments of women?

Lecture II.—Qualifications for Married
	Life.

	a. How to make oneself worthy of a good
husband. b. Desirable traits of character
in the opposite sex.

Lecture III.—Marriage.

	a. Marriage ordained of God. b. The
necessity of Marriage. c. Knowledge gained
by obedience to the laws of God.

Lecture IV—Marriage (continued.)

	a. Teach the sacredness of the Temple
marriage compared with the temporal. b.
Dwell upon the rights of eternal inherit-
ance. c. Warn against disinheritance.

Lecture V.—The Home.

	a. Kingdom of woman, she should reign
as queen. b. The necessity of contentment
in the home.

Lecture VI.—Prenatal Culture.

	a. Parents should learn the lesson of self-
control. b. Preparation for motherhood.
c. Proper diet. d. Cleanliness.
			SARAH TYSON,
						President.
			ALICE JACKSON,
			HANNAH TELFORD,
			KATIE EPPICK,
			PEARL BROUGH,
			AMELIA JACKSON,
						Committee.

		JORDAN STAKE.

“Woman, know thyself
	And know thy mission too,
Thou camest from thy Maker’s
		hand,
	A mighty work to do.”
				Eliza R. Snow.

Lecture I.—Woman.

	a. Infancy.—1. Food, 2. Hygiene. 3.
Dress. b. Childhood—1. Manners. 2. Oc-
cupation. 3. Play. c. Maidenhood—1. Mor-


al training. 2. Education. d. Wifehood.
e. Motherhood.
There is none
“In all this cold and hollow world no fount
Of deep, strong, deathless love like that
	within
A mother’s heart!”
Mrs. Hemans.
Le[-]ture II.—Home.
	a. Orderly and attractive. b. School of
character. c. Proper literature. d. Econ-
omy.
	“A crust your own is a feast, but a feast
from creditors is famine.”
Lecture III.—Habit.
	a Self-denial. b. Purity. (Reference
“School and Fireside,” Karl G. Maeser.)
“The purest treasure mortal times afford,
Is—spotless reputation; that away,
Men are but gilded loam, or painted clay,
A jewel in a ten-times barred-up chest
Is—a bold Spirit in a loyal breast.”
Shakespeare.
Lecture IV—Dress.
“We sacrifice to dress, till household joys
And comforts cease. Dress drains our cel-
	lar dry,
And keeps our larder lean. Puts out the
	fires,
And introduces hunger, frost and woe,
Where peace and hospitality might reign.”
Cowper.
	a. Simplicity. b. Plain and neat. “The
body is the shell of the soul; the dress the
husk.’ c. Richest dress. “The richest dress
ts always worn on the soul. The adorn-
ments that will not perish and that all most
admire, shine from the heart through this
life. God has made it our highest, holiest
duty to dress the soul He has given us.”
d. Changes, Manners. “Men of sense fol-
low fashion only so far that they are neith-
er conspicuous for their excess nor peculiar
by their opposition to it.”
Lecture V.—Family Government.
	“Govern by kindness and love.”
Joseph Smith.
	a. Respect for Priesthood. b. Respect
of parents for each other. c. Respect of
parents for children. d. Respect of child-
ren for parents. e. Respect of children for
each other.
Lecture VI.—Faith-
	a. Ordinances of the Gospel. (Ref.
Gems of Prophet Joseph Smith and all
other Church works.
FIDELIA NELSON,
EMMA J. BUTLER,
Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.
			MARY E. HARRIS.
 “Leaves have their time to fall, 
	And flowers to wither at the north wind’s breath, 
And stars to set—but all, 
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, oh Death.”
	Mary E. beloved wife of E. F. Harris, and
daughter of Thomas and Ann H. Gunn, departed
this life February 29, 1904, from pneumonia She 
was born September 15, 1868, in Adamsville,
Beaver County. She was a counselor in the Y. 
L. N. M. I. Association, and secretary of the Sab-
bath School in that ward for a number of years. 
She taught school in every settlement of Beaver 
County except one. She was married in Septem-
ber, 1891, to Brother C. J. Harris, of Beaver City,
who in the following October took his departure to


fill a mission to Great Britain. During his ab
sence she supported herself by teaching school and
also contributed towards his support while in the
mission field. She was the mother of three sons,
one ef whom preceded her to the spirit world. She
filled the office of stake secretary of the Relief
Society in an able and satisfactory manner for a
year and a half previous to her demise Although
she had been a partial invilid for several years,
she was a devoted and affectionate wife and
mother, and was an efficient Latter-day Saint in
every sense of the word. She leaves a grief-
stricken husband, two children, an aged mother,
one brother, four sisters and a host of relatives and
friends to mourn her untimely departure.
	Funeral services were held in the L D. S.
meeting house November 2, 1903, at 2 o’clock p.
m. The speakers all paid a high tribute to her
pure, exemplary life and stirling worth. She was
highly respected, esteemed and beloved by all
who knew her.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas an Alwise Creator has seen fit to call
from this sphere of action our worthy and beloved
sister and co-laborer, Mary E. Harris, therefore
be it
	Resolved, that we strive to emulate her unwav-
ering faith, her fidelity to purity and truth, her de-
votion to her home and religious duties, and her
humility and respect and obedience to proper
authority.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
and love to the bereft husband and children and
to the worthy mother and to the brothers and sis-
ters and to all other dear ones and that we sin-
cerely pray our Heavenly Father that He will fill
their wounded souls with the comforting and heal-
ing influence of His Holy Spirit, that they may
realize that she has only gone before to enjoy the
rest and reward of a well spent life.
	That a copy of these resolutions be given to the
esreemed husband and the worthy mother, and
one be sent to the Woman’s Exponent for publi-
cation.
			ALICF M. T. TANNER, Sec.
Beaver, Utah, March 10, 1904.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	In Memory of Sister Josephine F. Nash who de-
parted this life, July 25, 1903, at Salem, Utah,
was born in Letmis Tiania, Norway, Feb. 23, 1854.
Adopted by the Relief Society.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in his infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our beloved sister
and
	Whereas, we feel in the death of Sister Nash a


sore bereavement and regret that she should be
called from our midst so soon, be it
	Resolved, that we do express our sorrow and ex-
tend our sympathy to her family, and also, be it
	Resolved, that we keep in memory her great and
noble patience, and loving kindness to all fellow
mortals and that we ever emulate her example.
	Resolved that these resolutions be published in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and that a copy be given
to the family of Sister Nash.
						SISTER GARDNER.
	In Memory of Sister Annie Peterson, Born in
Plesing, Denmark, Nov. 20, 1814. Died in Salem,
Utah, Jan. 15, 1904. Adopted by Relief Society.
	Whereas, our beloved sister Annie Peterson,
has after a long and useful life, been called home
by our Heavenly Father, be it
	Resolved, that we express our love for sister
Peterson and our appreciation for the good and
noble work she has done among us, Be it also
	Resolved, that we sympathize with her beloved
ones who still remain with us and who feel the loss
of a mother and wise counselor.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be published in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and that a copy of them
be sent to her family.
						MARY EDMAN.


INTERNATIONAL QUINQUENNIAL.
INFORMATION CONCERNING THE AP-
PROACHING THIRD QUINQUENNIAL OF
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL AND THE
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS IN BERLIN.
	I am in constant receipt of letters asking
for more minute information than has been
given in previous articles in regard to var-
ious details of the approaching Quinquen-
nial and its accompanying international Con-
gress. Every inquirer has received a per-
sonal reply, but, as the plans are matured,
and in that process necessarily to some ex-
tent modified from time to time, I will ask
all interested in the subjects to consider that
this constitutes a correct answer to date to
any questions that may have been asked
me. If, as in some instances will be the
case, the information communicated differs
from that communicated in personal letters,
I beg them to understand that the differ-
ence in the dates between this communica-
tion and the letters they may have receivd
from my office, accounts for any changes
in the information.
	Being in receipt of frequent advices from
Berlin I can confidently assure my country-
women that every provision possible is be-
ing made by the German committee of Ar-
rangements for the succees of both Council
and Congress, and for the comfort, conveni
ence and hospitable entertainment of all
who may attend them. The German Com-
mittee of Arrangements is responsible for
the preparations for the Congress only,
which is to be held under the auspices of
the International Council and immediately
succeeding the Quinquennial proper; but
the German Committee is interpreting its
responsibilities very generously. Although
the preparations for the Council proper are
in the hands of a large Committee of Ar-
rangements composed of the General officers
of the International, the Presidents of all
affiliated National Councils, and one mem-
ber from each Council especialy appointed
to serve on this committee, and, although
this committee of which the President of
the International Council is the Chairman,
has worked constantly since Mid September
for the success of the Council, it goes with-
out saying that there are many matters of
detail relating to the local situation which
cannot be arranged by correspondence. In
regard to all these, the German Committee
is generous with both advice and practical
help.
	It is not improbable that all the sessions


[Column 1]
of the Council, Executive and Public, may
be held in the Reichstag Building. This
is greatly desired, but if the strenuous eff-
orts to secure it fail, beautiful and ample
accommodations will be found in the Phil-
harmonie. Should the Council be honored
by being granted the Reichstag, as even its
large hall will be too small to accommodate
the Council on the occasion of its Peace and
Arbitration meeting, and, as for other reas-
sons, the Parliament House will not be suit-
able for such a meeting, that may probably
be held in the very beautiful Cirkus Schu-
man. Either in the Reichstag or in the
Philharmonie, a room will be set aside for
the use of the Council during the Quinquen-
nial week as a Central Bureau, or what in
this country we should call a “Business
Headquarters.” The Chairman of the
Sub-Committee on Hospitality recommends
as what we in the United States would call
“Hotel Headquarters” Das Palast Hotel,
Koenig Gratzer Strasse, Leipziger Platz.
	This hotel is conveniently situated to the
halls in which the meetings of both Coun-
cil and Congress will be held, and is rec-
commended as being in all respects desir-
able.
	The cost per day of a room with light
and service included is from four to ten
marks according to location; of breakfast
one mark and a half. I am at the present
time in correspondence with the proprietor
of the hotel and hope to secure such accom-
modations as will enable us to announce as
Hotel and Social Headquarters. As one of
the chief advantages of such a gathering of
women from all parts of the world is the
promotion of their real acquaintance with
one another, it seems to me most desirable
that as many as possible shall secure their
rooms in this hotel recommended as head-
quarters. If any of our American women
going over desire a cheaper hotel, one in
the same neighborhood named “Hotel
Bellevue” in Potsdamer Platz is recom-
mended. Here according to location rooms
are from three to seven marks, breakfast
one and one fourth marks, luncheon and
dinner in proportion. For the benefit of
any Council of women who prefer to make
other arrangements, I give the address of
the chairman of that special section of the
Hospitality Committee whose functions it
is to find accommodations in hotels and
pensions, and will remind ladies who prefer
privite hospitality that the German women
have very generously provided to secure
this in so far as possible for those applying
for it. Frau Cubitz, Lutzow Str. 85 B. Ber-
lin W. Germany.
	I am in constant receipt of letters from
women who have received the general invi-
tation to speak at the Congress or to “par-
ticipate” in it, asking for a statement of
their specific subjects, and of details con-
cerning their individual work. Since it is
only with the details of the Council pro-
gram that I am directly and responsibly
concerned, I am obliged to refer all such to
the chairman of the Committee of Arrange-
ments, Frau Marie Strit, Wintergarten,
Strasse 3, Dresden, Germany, or to the Cor-
responding Secretary of the German Coun-

[Column 2]
cil whose address is Berlin West 10 Frieder-
ich Wilhelm Strasse 7.
	As for the program of the Council proper,
it is being developed, with as much rapidity
as could be expected where so many coun-
tries are involved. The President has is-
sued a call to the Committee of Arrange-
ments inviting as many members as possi-
ble to convene in a preliminary meeting on
Saturday, June 4th, so that any inside de-
tails, of which there are always so many on
the eve of any great gathering, may be
provided for. It must be understood that
all preparation that can possibly be made
by correspondence, will be made in ad-
vance; that the President of the Interna-
tional Council will arrive in Berlin a week
or ten days before the opening of the
Quinquennial, and that the preparations
which must be made on and after June 4th
will be reduced to a minimum. The pro-
gram for the Quinquennial in large is as
follows:—
		SATURDAY, JUNE 4TH.
	Meeting of the Committee of Arrange-
ments to endorse arrangements already
made by the Executive in Dresden supple-
mented by correspondence during the year,
etc., etc., and to take action upon final de-
tails.
		MONDAY, JUNE 6TH.
	The morning will be occupied by meet
ings of Standing and Special Committees of
which there are now five.
	a) Press, whose chairman is Mrs. Emily
Cummings, 44 Dewson St., Toronto, Canada.
	b) Peace and Arbitration, whose acting
chairman is Mrs. May Wright Sewall, 633
N. Penna. St. Indianapolis, Ind.
	c) Legal Position of Women, whose chair-
man is Baroness Olga von Beschwitz. 5
Mozart Str. Dresden Germany.
	d) Finance, whose chairman is Mrs Dig-
ham 284 St. George St. Toronto, Canada.
	e) International Relations whose acting
chairman is the President.
	The President has asked the chairman of
every committee to convene her associates
at this time in order that any propositions
which the different committees may wish to
submit to the Executive may be considered
in such special sessions of the committees.
	The afternoon of Monday will be occu-
pied by a meeting of the Executive Comm-
ittee proper when the program will in-
clude:—
	a) To receive reports of Standing and
Special Committees.
	b) To affiliate New Councils.
	c) To elect New Patrons.
	d) To present unfinished business which
has been turned over to this particular
session.
		TUESDAY, JUNE 7TH.
	Both morning and afternoon will be occu-
pied by sessions of the Executive.
	The mornings of Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday, June 8th, 9th and 10th will
also be occupied by sessions of the Execu-
tive before which many important matters
announced in the Agenda will be brought.

[Column 3]
	All the numerous amendments to the
constitution which have been proposed dur-
ing the Quinquennial period will be brought
forward for action. While many of these
are merely formal, and others concern
merely the method of transacting business,
there are still a large number of vital im-
portance. It will be proposed at the ap-
proaching Quinquennial that two very im-
portant subjects be added to the one which
has already in 1899 been adopted for propa-
ganda. Thus far, the Council has been
committed to making propaganda only for
Peace and Arbitration. At Berlin, it will
consider the propriety of adding to its pro-
gram.
	a) Abolition of White Slave Traffic.
	b) Political Equality for Women.
	I wish to call attention to the phrasing
of this second proposition. Even our
Council Workers often speak of this as being
a recommendation of “Suffrage for Women”
and then treat this phrase as if “Suffrage
for Women” means the same degree of
political liberty in all countries. A little
reflection will show that between “Woman’s
Suffrage” as it is understood in the United
States and “Political Equality for Women”
as it is understood in the Council, there is
a wide difference, but the principle demon-
strated in the former is clearly recognized
in the latter. The proposition as it will
stand on the Agenda is as follows:—
	“INASMUCH AS ALL GOVERN-
	MENTS EQUALLY EFFECT THE
	MEN AND WOMEN LIVING UNDER
	THEM. THEREFORE, BE IT RE-
	SOLVED THAT UNDER ALL GOV-
	ERNMENTS WHETHER NOMINALLY
	REPUBLICAN OR MONARCHICAL
	WHATEVER POLITICAL RIGHTS OR
	PRIVILEGES ARE ACCORDED TO
	MEN OUGHT ON CORRESPONDING
	CONDITIONS TO BE ACCORDED TO
	WOMEN.”
	It will be seen that this proposition seeks
to abolish the political distinctions which
have been based solely on sex.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


IN MEMORIAM
	Died at Lewiston, Cache county, Utah, March
7, 1904, Sister Abigail Thorne Pond, one of Utah’s
Pioneers Sister Pond was born in the town of
Sempronious, now Moravia, Cayuga county, state
of New York, April 2, 1821. being at time of her
death 82 years, 11 months and 5 days old. She
embraced the Gospel in her childhood, being bap-
tized on the 30th of September, 1838, and was the
first in the neighborhood where she lived to offer
herself for this sacred ordinance. She emigrated
to Nauvoo in 1841, and was well acquainted with
the Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum
Smith. She was taught the principle of plural
marriage and embraced the same, being married
in the Nauvoo Temple Jan. 26, 1846, to Elder
Samuel Russel. They left Nauvoo with the
Saints when they were driven from their homes,
and endured cheerfully all the hardships and per-
secutions of that historic period. They arrived in
Salt Lake City, Utah, in September, 1841, Some
time after their arrival in Utah the husband apos-
tatized and went with his first family to California.
Some years later she became the wife of Brother
Stillman Pond.
	Brother and Sister Pond were among the early
settlers of Richmond, where they raised their fam-
ily and where Brother Pond went to his well-
earned rest. Sister Pond then moved to Lewiston,
where most of her children were living, and has
resided here for a number of years, tenderly loved
by her children, grand-children, and a host of
friends. She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, and
a devoted wife, a kind and loving mother, and a
friend to the oppressed. She was a member of
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, was president of the
organization in Richmond for a number of years,
and was a faithful worker until her health failed.
She awaits a glorious resurrection with the just.
RHODA M. HENDRICKS,
Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY 
					AND NURSING.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


Marilla Daniels 

								Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

