			Vol. 32		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1903		No. 7.


CONTENTS.
The Pioneer Christmas, Annie Wells Cannon,	49 53
EDITORIAL—Christmas Gatherings—Editorial
	Notes.......................................................	52
R. S. Reports...................................................	52
In Memoriam..................................................	54
Mothers’ Work................................................	55
Haste and Rest....................Julia Ward Howe	56
Notes and News..............................................	56
Notice to Secretaries.......................................	56
POETRY—Thanksgiving Poem, Ruth May Fox	49


THANKSGIVING POEM.
[Written for the Press Club, 1903].

We are thankful, O God, for all that is fair,
For mountain, valley and river;
	For the wealth of the field
	Which the harvest doth yield,
	For the lowing of kine
	And the fruit of the vine;
And we render all praise to the Giver.

We thank thee, O Father, for sunshine, and rain,
That roses and thorns grow together;
	For the music of birds
	And the tender buds stirred
	By the breath of the spring,
	Whose frargrance doth cling,
Round the homes where our hearts wander ever.

And Father, we thank thee for hearts that are true,
For friendship sincere and abiding;
	For the hand that doth clasp
	In a brotherly grasp
	The hand of the weak;
	For the fond lips that speak
Kind words that are pure and confiding.

We thank thee, O Lord, for the strong and the brave,
Who shrink not from trial or duty,
	For the gentle and sweet
	Who strew flow’rs at our feet,
	Who comfort our fears
	And weep with our tears
Making earth a bright bower of beauty.

But most of all, Father, we thank thee for life,
Glor’ous life, progressive, alluring
	Our hearts far away,
	Aye, away and away,
	To revel in light
	’Mong the planets of night
And splendors forever enduring.
					RUTH MAY FOX.


[Column 1]
THE PIONEER CHRISTMAS.

There’s plenty of hardship in pioneer life,
	A hard working stint at the best:
But with brawn and pluck and courage rife, 
	The heart beats with hope in the breast.

	“Why, Elizabeth, what brought you out-
side the fort walls so late in the day; are
you not afraid of anything, girl?”
	“Afraid,” the girl answered “that some-
thing might happen to you on your peri-
lous trip, and you don’t know how good it
seemed to hear the rolling of the wagon
wheels over the frozen ground, the steady
tread of the oxen, the crack of your whip,
and best of all, the sound of your voice say-
ing ‘gee’ and ‘haw,’ urging the oxen
along.”
	“It is very sweet of you,” the boy said,
“to think of me and come out to meet me.
The other boys are not far behind; but

[Column 2]
come, walk close beside me, sweetheart, and
I will tell you of the trip.”
	So, hand in hand, the two young lovers
walked close beside the loaded wagon, ex-
changing experiences of the last few days
and thinking all the time of each other,
roughly and not too warmly clad, but
hearts warm and true and minds clear and
pure as running water.
	“Our trip, Elizabeth, was quite success-
ful, though rather hard. We followed the
creek as far as the road permitted; but
shortly after entering the canyon, it be-
comes so narrow that we made a camp,
where John and I watched the wagon and
cattle and gathered small wood, while
Charley and Sam explored farther up and
found some splendid pines. The first day
they took the axes and ropes and felled as
many trees as they could, and yesterday
John and I took our turn, so we have two
fine loads of logs and two of smaller wood
for firing. Now your mother can have a
floor in her house, and we can all have
warm, cheerful fires for Christmas, if noth-
ing more. The other boys are some dis-
tance behind, though not far. You know
I boast of my good driving, and besides
there was a magnet drawing me on, which
I knew not of. The Lord bless you, Eliza-
beth; for thinking of me, few boys in the
valley are as lonely as I. Do you know
when I saw my mother die on the ocean,
and her body lowered in the great white
sea, I could myself have died. All desire
for life, all future hope left me, and there
on the ship’s deck, death would have been
welcome. My sisters wept, my little broth-
ers clung to father's hand; but I seemed
alone, my heart almost ceased to beat. I
was like stone, no tears or sobs relieved the
dull pain of that dreadful hour. It seems a
marvel that still we live after such suffer-
ing; but the old ship steadily tossed along
the waters, the waves closed over her body,
aud the great ocean heaved just the same;
and life has rolled along, sometimes throb-
bing, sometimes sobbing, but still carrying
out no doubt my destiny. Can you be pa-
tient and wait for me? With your love for
my guiding star, I shall never fail. We
are nearly home now, you must forgive me
if I recall sad scenes, I have never been
able to talk of mother to any one but you
and sister Anne. Now for a little while we
must part, I hope your mother has not wor-
ried about you, for really it is hardly safe
for you to venture so far, and besides it is
against counsel for any of the women folks
to leave the fort after sundown. Wise
counsel it is too, for there are many dangers
in this desert country. You are a girl of
wonderful courage; but as you truly love
me, you must take care of yourself.”
	“You speak of dangers,” said Elizabeth,
“are there any new ones? I cannot think
the Lord will let the Indians or the wolves
harm us. We have passed through so
many hardships, privations and sorrows since
leaving our homes, that surely somewhere
in the world we can find a refuge; and be-
sides, those who ought to know have told
us this is the chosen spot. I believe we
are safe and will be protected here. Yes,

[Column 3]
I will do all you ask. Life is pretty hard
for us; but we are young and strong, and
our love will help us through, so now good
night.”
	So they parted, having reached the North
gateway of the fort. Elizabeth knew her
mother would be anxious, and perhaps a
little angry, for she did not altogether ap-
prove of her daughter’s love affair. So
hastening into her rude home, she quickly
explained that the boys were all coming
and that John would soon be home, though
in fact she had neither looked nor listened
after meeting her lover to learn whether her
brother was near or not, That was only
because she had been so sympathetically in-
terested in his story, for she possessed all
the best, kind attributes of a sister, and be-
gan immediately to prepare something
warm and nice for her brother and to think
of his comfort.
	In the meantime, the young man had un-
yoked and cared for his oxen, and then re-
ported himself to his uncle, with whom he
lived, and who had sent him into the can-
yon for logs. He hinted in his conversa-
tion with Elizabeth about dangers, but to
his uncle he had something quite important
to report. A large number of Sioux Indians
were camped up the canyon, just having
come away victorious from a conflict with
some Utes, and it was more than likely
that they would come down in the settle-
ment and worry and frighten the settlers if
nothing more. At any rate, a visit from
the Indians always meant a dividing up of 
provisions for the sake of peace, and the
people were not any too well provided for
themselves, with a long winter before them
and no hope of any more companies coming
in with supplies before the spring. 
	In pioneer days in the far west, the set-
tlers had to live close together for protec-
tion, and the first Fall of forty seven, the
few families of Mormon emigrants who
reached the valley built themselves homes
of adobes and logs, all as it were in one en-
closure. A high wall of adobes enclosed a
large square, thus forming the outer wall
of the several homes, mere huts, one would
call them now, all facing an inner court.
Rude logs sawn in half made the rafters and
supporting beams, while loose soil was
thrown over the rafters to form a roof.
Some of these huts had doors, and some had
floors, but others had the bare ground for a
floor, and only an open space among the
logs for a door way. There was only the
smallest openings in the outer wall for out-
looks, for there was no such thing as glass for
windows, and the dangers were many.
Great herds of white wolves and howling
coyotes came down from the mountains
night after night and prowled and howled
and tore around the walls, and the Indians
were not always friendly either. So much
care had to be taken to make these homes
secure. In these days everybody had much
hard work to do, and the women were only
too glad to help construct these rude homes.
To them, these walls of logs and mud meant
rest and protection, and a king’s palace is
no more than that. 
	After George had eaten his supper and


[Column 1]
sufficiently warmed himself, his uncle sent
him to the different houses to ask the men
to gather in his home for a little consulta-
tion, warning him, however, not to say
anything to alarm the women folks. George
made the round of the different houses,
leaving his message, and last of all knocked
at the door of Elizabeth’s home hoping
with a lover’s fondness to have a few words
with her that night; but, with her brother
John, she had gone to one of the neighbors to
help plan some Christmas entertainment
for the children; so after giving to her
father his uncle’s message, he returned to
his own home a little disappointed, but still
with the memory of her brave words in his
mind, full of hope for the future.
	The conference lasted about an hour, and
by that time every man in the fort was
ready to act as guard or soldier, just as oc-
casion should require. All guns were that
night inspected, and the powder horns hung
dry and near at hand. A detail of young men
was appointed to act as sentries on the four
sides and also to take information to the
families still living in wagons and tents
who were not yet inside the enclosure.
	While all these precautionary prepara-
tions were being made by the men, the
women were silently wondering what they
could do to make Christmas a little happier,
a little different from other days. The
mother nature always loves to do some-
thing nice for little folks; but oh, the dearth
of everything! How much poorer than
ever they seemed at this time.
	Elizabeth’s brother had brought from the
canyon with his logs some young pines,
and they had wondered if in some way
they might not be utilized to please the
children. So together John and Elizabeth
had gone with these young trees over to
Mary Dilworth, the little school teacher, to
discuss the matter. Other young folks
were also gathered there, and the hours
passed quickly.
	“Oh,” said Mary, “how pretty and green
they are.”
	“Yes, if we only had some of our Michi-
gan cranberries to string on them, we
might have a real Christmas tree,” an-
swered John.
	“Well,” she replied, “there’s no good
wishing for things we cannot have, and the
sight of the green pine needles will be
something for them after all. Come over
to the school tomorrow, Elizabeth, and
help me tell them a Christmas story and
teach them a happy song. The little folks
have always such a sober life, we can at
least try to brighten it for one day!”
	“Aren’t you glad, girls,” said Sister
Riter, “that the Battalion boys are with us
again? You young folks can at least have
a dance tomorrow night. Jesse Earls’ fid-
dling just makes us older folks want to
dance.”
	This was two nights before Christmas,
that in the same enclosure two confer-
ences were held, one among the young
folks planning amusement and making
merry with music, laughter and jests, and
one among the elder ones planning means
for protection and safety.
	As Elizabeth and John crossed the court
they noticed the sentry pass the gateway,
and immediately the word danger used by
her lover came to her mind. Without ex-
changing a word with her brother about
the circumstance, she crossed immediately
to the sentry and asked for an explanation.
The boy knew she was impetuous and self-

[Column 2]
willed, but he also knew her to be brave
and true, and he felt she was one who
would neither alarm nor annoy any one by
spreading evil tidings, so he expl ined
about the nearness of the Indians and their
warlike appearance. Elizabeth knew not
fear, and besides she was full of assurance
that she herself could scarcely account for,
that their worst dangers were passed, and
she gaily replied,
	“Keep on the lookout for wolves, Millen,
and shoot them if they come too near;
never an Indian will you see tonight.”
	Then rejoining her brother, they entered
the house.
	The mother and the other children were
all sleeping, but the father was waiting for
them, his Bible in his hand and his gun
leaning against his knee. The resemblance
between the father and daughter was most
striking. He, a large, well-built man,
whose very attitude denoted firmness and
courage, a kindly, open countenance with
clear, blue eyes, though heavily shaded,
and a mouth with lips close shut; while
this sweet maid, Elizabeth, almost a child
in years—in those days girls had no youth,
they passed from childhood to womanhood,
for the hardships and sorrows of pioneer
life was a bitter and trying school—was
like a tall red rose, graceful, strong and fair
to behold. She was full of faith and hope
and love. Her mind was rich in thought,
and her hands were never idle. Watching
her movements in her home, one would in-
stinctively recall the words of Solomon,
“She looketh well to the ways of her
household, and eateth not the bread of idle-
ness.” As her parting words with her
sweetheart implied, “I will do all you ask,
we are young and strong and can wait,” so
she always seemed full of strength and
power and courage to battle with any
emergency, and she diffused in her surround-
ings and among her associates, this great
personality, like a rose sends out its per-
fume.
	Some women are full of fears, and full of
tears, nervous and sentimental to a great
degree, but such women are usually those
reared in luxury and refined surroundings.
The dangers of the desert and the toil of
the pioneer made life’s work so incessant
that little time was left for fears or idle
weeping, but the soul was full of sentiment
and the very desert seemed to breathe of
hope.
	“Why father,” said the girl, ‘ you look
quite formidable, let John take your gun
and put it up, and I will read you a verse
or two from the good book while you pre-
pare for bed. I know all about your meet-
ing, and there is no need for you to watch,
for the boys will give us plenty of warning,
and I must sit up a while to knit, so if
there is occasion, I can wake you.”
	Then turning to her brother, she said,
“How very tired you must be, John dear,
after your canyon trip! Do get to sleep as
soon as possible.”
	So in her masterful way, she assisted
them both, and soon all was quiet, not a
sound but the steady clicking of her needles
as they worked in and out of the long com-
forter she was making for her lover’s
Christmas gift. Swiftly the needles flew,
and swifter flew her thoughts.
	“If George had not received this mission-
ary call, we might be married next spring
and begin to make a home for ourselves;
but as it is, it may be for years before we
really do begin to live. I believe I will get

[Column 3]
Mary Dilworth to teach me privately this
winter, and then when the new settlers,
come in next year perhaps I can start a
school, and so begin to earn a little money
and perhaps lay by something towards a
home.”
	So her thoughts ran on until the candle
burned down in the socket. She dared not
be so extravagant as to light another that
night, so carefully folding up her work,
was preparing for bed, when on the clear,
cold air was heard the report of a gun.
Quickly she sprang to the port hole in the
outer wall, but could see nothing, so she
quietly slipped through the door and ran to
the gate. Others were hurrying from the
houses and for a few moments great excite-
ment prevailed, but investigation proved
that oue of the guards had shot at a prairie
dog, thinking he saw a wolf. Darkness
enlarges the sight as well as the imagina-
tion. After awhile quiet again ensued, but
sleep was almost impossible for many that
night, when it became generally known
that danger was so near.
	The morning dawned clear and cold. The
earth was covered with a heavy frost that
glistened like jewels in the sun. The
housewives were astir early for there was
much to do that day. Elizabeth had de-
termined ty help Miss Dilworth entertain
the children, and early in the morning was
baking doughnuts in all sorts of fancy de-
signs, rings, hearts, balls and baby shapes;
grotesque enough some of them were, but
pleasing to the eye and certainly sweet to
the taste. With colored yarns and fancy
doughnuts they decorated the tree, and the
little ones were happy, for they had not ex-
pected anything. The pioneer mothers
dared not tell their children fancy stories of
Santa Claus and Christmas cheer, for well
they knew no such visions could be real-
ized, so the little folks received a pleased
suprise with this simple offering.
	Mary Dilworth—a girl of great intelli-
gence and wholly unselfish—had opened, as
soon as the room could be built, a school
for the children of the settlement, and had 
given her time and thought freely for their
benefit. The little folks loved her, and
were eager to learn, and on this day before
Christmas, she seemed particularly happy
among them; and with Elizabeth’s help,
they sang songs and played merry games
for some time, when standing before them,
she told them the story of Christmas, not
the merry making of today, but the true,
sacred story of Jesus’ birth. Ah, many
Christmas tales are told and written, but
after all what can equal that beautiful story
of Mary with her babe in the manger, when
the wise men came to worship and brought
beautiful gifts, and the glory of the Lord
shone over all!
	Elizabeth listened as intently as the chil-
dren and felt more than ever the desire to
help and to do good to some one, more
than ever anxious to sing praises and to
cease all complaining. And as the children
rose to receive their little cakes from her
hands, she said, “Let us all repeat the
Lord’s prayer, and then say together
“Peace on earth, good will to men.” Alter
this little ceremony with the children, a
perfect calm seemed to rest upon them all,
and a heavenly glow filled their hearts to
such an extent that to their sights the room
was all rosy-hued; and never a happier,
more contented little assembly ever dis-
persed that that.
	Elizabeth was full of the spirit of this oc-


[Column 1]
casion, and could not immediately bring
herself to the homely tasks of the house; so
after leaving the school room, she started
out for a walk. The sharp snap of the
frost under her feet, and the crisp air but
tended to increase the elation of her spirits
as with long steady strides she wandered
on, neither noting nor caring whither, when
suddenly she realized she had wandered in-
to danger, for not far ahead she saw an In-
dian crouching along, but between herself
and him was a settler’s cabin, and she hast-
ily made for the door, where she found the
poor frightened woman almost in hysterics
as she clung to her little babe.
	“Why, Aunt Harriet, are you hurt?’’ she
asked.
	“Oh no, but somewhat frightened, I ad-
mit, and a little unstrung in my nerves,
now that the danger is over,” replied the
woman.
	“Tell me what has happened, and shall
I go for help?” said Elizabeth.
	“No;” Aunt Harriet replied. “When I
gave the Indian all the bread I had, he
threatened me because he wanted more, and
for a moment I felt as though my last hour
and my baby’s too had come, then I re-
membered our great mastif, chained in the
other room, and pretending to get him
more bread, I went in and loosened the dog
and urged him on. Of course I couldn’t be
cruel enongh to let him quite kill the In-
dian, but I let the dog stay long enough to
make him pretty much afraid and quite
willing to give in to me too. Then I called
the dog off and dressed his wounds and
sent him off. I think that Indian won’t
come round here much more.”
	“I should think not,” said Elizabeth;
“but oh Aunt Harriet! I wish you were not
so far away from the rest of us.”
	“I’m not afraid, and when Spring comes
you’ll all be moving out of the Fort and
making homes, and you see we are just a
little ahead of you,’’ Aunt Harriet answered.
"But what brings you out this afternoon,
Elizabeth?”
	“I have been in the school-room today
with Mary Dilworth, and the exercises and
sweet stories she told the children so im-
pressed me that I thought I would rather
walk awhile and think of this holy theme
than go back to my cooking, and I only
chanced this way by accident; but now, I
believe the Lord directed my steps, for
surely you need company after such a
fright. ”
	Elizabeth immediately began to help her
friend with her work and remained until
nearly sunset, when Aunt Harriet’s oldest
son, who had been away for wood came in.
He also had seen a few Indians, but said
they-seemed friendly, and he did not antic-
ipate any trouble from them; but he was
more alarmed when he heard of his mother’s
experience with one of them. Concealing
his fear, however, he began to praise his
mother for her bravery and quick wit.
	“Yes,” the mother answered, "there
was no time to lose, scarcely time to think,
and oh! the thought of a death from the In-
dians! I would a thousand times rather
have died on the plains than to be killed by
these savages!”
	“Yes, Indeed,” answered Elizabeth, but
God is merciful, and I cannot think this
people will ever suffer from the Indians. Of
course we have all the time the dread and
fear and many perilous incidents like this to
alarm and worry us, but we are home at

[Column 2]
last, and do you know, Aunt Harriet, I be-
lieve we are going to be very happy here.”
	“You talk like a good, brave girl, Eliza-
beth, and I am sure you are right. We
have much to be thankful for, after all, and
the greatest of all is the wonderful love of
our people for each other. Tell your mother
and the rest of the folks down at the Fort I
wish them a Merry Christmas.”
	Elizabeth now bade her friends good-bye,
refusing the company of the young man,
for his mother needed him more than she
until others of the family should return,
and with long rapid steps she turned home-
ward.
	The day had been full of interest for her,
and her mind was full of rich, bright
thoughts, the thought of the wonderful
bravery and heroism of Aunt Harriet, more
than surpassed by her tenderness and mercy,
when she bathed and dressed the wounds
of the savage, of her great contentment in
her humble, almost destitute surroundings;
and she knew that all around her were
numbers of just such true, brave, lonely
women, enduring, almost with pleasure,
the greatest hardships and sacrificing every
selfish thought on an altar of faith. Then
she thought of Mary Dilworth, and her in-
tellect and talents, and wished in her heart
that she but possessed the same, for she felt
the great good she could do for others, and
how perhaps she might aid her lover too.
	At this thought, a rush of color suffused
her whole being. Dear George, how manly,
and yet h w gentle he is. “I wonder why,”
she said aloud, "he should have been se-
lected for that new mission. It hardly seems
fair, for as yet he has no means or property
or prospects. Well, he says if I love him I
must not complain, for he will ever bring
his own feelings into submission to the
opinions of those above him in authority.
The experience of our westward journey
ought to be sufficient evidence that obed-
ience is our surest road to success.”
	On reaching home, Elizabeth saw the
young folks already making preparations
for the evening dance. She did not join
them just then, however, but sought her
father to inform him of Sister Young’s ad-
venture, knowing that though the merri-
ment might go on, the vigilant watch must
still be kept.
	All this day George had been busy help-
ing his uncle work on their little home, and
later engaged in some writing and copying
for him, so he had not been aware of Eliz-
abeth’s walk or visit to the school. There
was always much work to do, and he was
never idle, for when his uncle had no em-
ployment for him, he delighted in study.
Opportunities were few, and books were
very scarce, but George’s uncle was a
scholarly man and had succeeded in bring-
ing into the desert some few very choice
and rare books, and he was also more than
willing to help his nephew in his search for
knowledge.
	The temperature was somewhat lower,
as the evening advanced, and a slight wind
began to blow, which the settlers thought
meant snow. There had been no snow in
the valley up to that time, and they had
wished all along for a white Christmas, for
that would seem more natural. The time
for the dance arrived, and young and old
assembled in the little school-room. What
a queer sight! Rough boards, on which to
dance, and tallow candles for the lights. At
the end where the band sat were two lant-
erns and a row of half a dozen candles, then

[Column 3]
around the room in different places, were
candles in tin holders, stuck in the wall.
	The company came to have a good time
and be merry; the music was good, and the
room was warm and their hearts were
warm, so the hours flew swiftly by.
	George had danced only once with Eliz-
abeth, and that in a Tucker quadrille, so
had scarcely had time to speak to her since
the night before; but towards midnight, he
came near and whispered,
	“Should a waltz be called, Elizabeth, will
you give it to me? I have to leave shortly
to take the watch at the East gate ”
	Elizabeth was a great favorite, and had
been danci ng quite gaily all the evening;
but at these words from her lover, she stood
up quickly, and in her usual impulsive
manner, said,
	“I won’t dance again to-night, only with
you; and if you have to go, I shall go too.”
	“No,” said George, "stay and enjoy
yourself. I am sure you are.having a good
time.”
	“Yes,” she answered, “but you are here,
even though you haven’t been very atten-
tive this evening; and when you go, the
good time will go too.” 
	George was greatly pleased with the
girl’s frank confession, and as the strains
of a waltz began, the two young people 
clasped in each other’s arms joined in the
dance.
	The rhythmic motion of the body to the
music of the waltz is poetry to the soul, and
all the harsh, hard things of life are forgot-
ten and only the beautiful remain. There
are moments when all the senses are awake
in their intensity, and one sees the glorious
colors of the rainbow, hears the tender
notes of the song birds, scents the delicate
perfume of the flowers and feels the exquis-
ite harmony of life; and to these young
people, this was such a moment.
	They had seldom been alone, but from
their first acquaintance, they had felt drawn
towards each other, and a mutual confidence
and affection had arisen in their breasts.
Tonight, the affection had become deeper,
and both felt to enjoy the happy moments
to the utmost; but suddenly the music
ceased, then things became real again; and
once more there mingled with the laughter
and the merry-making, the thought of fear
and danger and parting. ’Twas ever [-]o in
the old, old time of long ago. Joy and fear,
gay delight and sorrow’s dread found equal-
place.
	The hour had come for George to take
the place at the gate, and Elizabeth, true
to her word, went with him. As had been
expected the wind had blown over, and a
gentle snow had set in. The ground was
already white with . the soft downy flakes,
and the snow was still falling. George took
Elizabeth to her home, then turned immed-
iately towards his own to get warmer cloth-
ing and his gun. His watch began at mid-
night, and he was anxious to keep his prom-
ise and not delay the relief of his friend who
already had to miss the first part of the
party. As he was walking back and forth,
thinking of his happiness, for tonight he
felt especially happy, Elizabeth joined him,
and in a shy, though gentle manner said,
	“I brought you, George, your Christmas
gift, You know it is already Christmas
morning, and I thought this would help to
keep you warm.”
	So saying, she unfolded the long com-
forter she had been,knitting, and wound it
Continued on page 53.


[Column 1]	
	THE PIONEER CHRISTMAS.
	Continued from page 51.
around his neck. At the touch of her hand
and the knowledge of her tender thought-
fulness, his heart was filled with gratefulness
for her love, and his whole being thrilled
with delight holding her in his arms,
he gazed for one moment into the depths of
her clear blue eyes, and whispered, “Oh,
my love! my love! Heaven keep you safe
for me, and I will conquer every obstacle
and make you the proudest and happiest of
women.”
	There then, outside the old gray walls,
in the stillness of the night, with light
feathery snow falling over them, these
young lovers plighted their faith and devo-
tion to each other, pure and simple, but full
of hope and love divine. They lingered only
a few moments in the bliss of this sweet
exchange of promises, and then bade each
other good bye for the present.
	The girl returned to her home across the
court. She could not speak to any one that
night. Such a spell of happiness held her,
that she desired to be alone with her
thoughts. On the hearth glowed the coals
of a fragrant pine knot, and by that faint
light, she prepared for bed, not wishing to
disturb any one by lighting a candle.
Kneeling in the glow of the firelight by the
side of her father’s old arm chair, she
praised the Lord for her happiness and
thanked Him for her great love; and George
through the silent watch of that still night,
also in his heart, sang songs of praise and
thanksgiving. What matter that the night
was cold; what matter that the snow fell
thick and fast; what matter that the wolves
cried out in the night air; or that not far
off in the hills the Indians were camped!
These young hearts beat warm and happy,
and knew not cold nor fear. A Christmas
never dawned on happier, brighter hearts
than theirs.
	Christmas morning in the Fort was very
busy. Plans had been made to have the
families outside the enclosure come in and
share the good cheer with those inside, and
so quite a number of house parties were ar-
ranged. Meat and provisions had been
distributed, liberally and equally for the oc-
casion, so all fared alike and though the
dinners were somewhat plain, they were
feasts that day. Roast beef, dried corn and
puddings with dried peaches or plums are
not exactly the Christmas dinners of to day;
but these pioneer women had learned an
art of making toothsome and appetizing re-
lishes out of the simplest materials, and
such a variety as this was a feast indeed.
In after years, many times boiled segoes
and swamp-roots had to serve for a meal.

[Column 2]
While the housewives were preparing the
dinner, the men had assembled to plan some
means of treating with the Indians that the
watch need not to be kept, and to remove
the fear from their hearts. It was decided
that five young men go out to the Indian
camp with some meat and flour, though it
could not well be spared, and make some
terms, if possible, with these savages.
Young George asked to be permitted to be
one of this number; and so earnestly did he
desire to go, that he was allowed, though
he was extremely young for a mission re-
quiring so much caution, diplomacy and
perhaps fighting. He had no fear, and felt
called to go on this errand to the red men.
The Indians were pleased with the gifts
and begged the men to smoke the pipe of
peace with them, which of course the white
men readily consented to do. The savages
then expressed themselves as having no
hostile feelings towards the settlers, and
said they were on the way to their homes
on the blue water to the South, and were
just about to take up their journey. The
men of course were pleased with, the suc-
cess of their visit but George seemed un-
willing yet to depart, and finally succeeded
in persuading his companions to ask the
Indians to pray with them. After some ex-
planation from the white men, and wonder
from the savages, they all consented and
stood in a circle; then George passed in
among them, and in the Indian tongue
plead for mercy for this wild band of men
and their race, and told them of the Master
and His mercy and love for all mankind,
and that this day was the great day of peace
and praise throughout the world.
	A great silence fell all around. The sav-
ages stood like stone images, and the white
men almost he[-]d their breath, for they knew
a divine power had sunken through their
friend and comrade. He was the first to
move, and with a gladness of heart reflect-
ed in his face, he passed among them, shak-
ing hands and bidding them farewell. The
Indians felt the spirit of the occasion, and
were so overcome with what they had
heard, that they began to offer their blank
ets and robes and armlets to their white
visitors but th y had received already
more than they had expected and all they
wanted in the promise of peace, and so re-
fused to take these offerings, and as soon
as possible, returned to their friends with
the glad tidings.
	The day was too cold to call the people
out to the public place of worship, the Bow-
ery; but when the boys returned to the
Fort, the people were summoned into the
courtyard, and the good news was told and
the word given out for all families when
assembling for dinner to speak their praise
unto the Lord.
	When Elizabeth heard of the great power
given her lover, as he stood among the In-
dians, she felt very proud indeed, and more
than anxious to tell her parents of her great
happiness; but with the shyness of youth,
kept putting it off, though many times
through the day, while helping her mother
with the cooking aud work, she had nearly
told her. Her happiness, however, was
quite apparent, and she sang first one love
tune and then another, as an accompani-
ment to her work. She joked with her
brother and teased her sisters unmercifully
about their beaux; in fact, the great elation
of her spirits became contagious, and that
was indeed a happy household that after-
noon. After dinner, however, she sobered

[Column 3]
down somewhat, and while her father was
reading in his usual place by the fire, she
knelt down by his side and told him the
story of her love. She was sure of his sym-
pathy, and knew he would do all in his
power to help her. And he did. Stroking
her soft brown hair with his hand, he talked
to her for some time, praising her choice,
for he had watched and noticed young
George for many months, and he felt him
to be superior both intellectually and spirit-
ually to many of his companions, who
seemed to have greater advantages and bet-
ter prospects than he. And the father prom-
sed her his help aud good will in their fut-
ure preparations. This was very comfort
ing to Elizabeth; for while there was great
sympathy always between her father and
herself, she feared he might be influenced
by her mother who she knew had other
plans for her. Her mother was just as
good and kindhearted as her father; but she
also like most mothers, was a little ambitious
for her daughters and even among the early
settlers there sometimes seemed a little
caste. Some families could scarcely forget
that formerly they boasted noble ancestry
and fine homes, had been able to keep ser-
vants and carriages, though now a common
cause and a humble faith had made a com-
mon condition among the Sa[-]n[-]s. No rich,
no poor, all fared alike. All enjoyed equal
privileges, as all enjoyed equal favors from
our Heavenly Father. Oh, the joy of such
a condition! God’s children all—breathing
the same air, the same sky over all! When
ever before or since, has such a condition
prevailed among a people? It was like par-
adise set in the mountains.
	All day George had been almost over-
powered by the  thought of the great gift
that had been given him and had felt to
humble himself before the Lord. The tears
came to his eyes many times during the
night at the thought of what had happened;
and he was quite silent on the subject, only
telling his uncle in answer to some questions
how it had happened. He himself could
not account for this wonderful manifesta-
tion, only that he had prayed in his heart
to feel satisfied before leaving the Indian
c[-]mp that their promises were made in good
faith, and he believed that this was an an-
swer to his prayer. His sister Anne, a tall
fair girl, stood near during this conversa-
tion b  tween her uncle and brother and
throwing her arms around her brother she
said, “Dear George, this is but the fulfilling
of mother’s word to you: Go on and con-
tinue to live pure and true, and your des-
tiny will be great Oh, how I wish she
could have lived until this moment! How
well would she feel repaid for her sorrows.’’
	“My sweet sister,’’ he answered, “many
sufferings have been ours, and that is why
we appreciate every little token of mercy or
power from our Heavenly Father so
much.”
	Oh, the simple faith of these poor peo-
ple! What a source of happiness and joy 
it brought! How much better would the
world be now if only faith could be the
anchor.
	George’s aunt had been unusually silent
during this conversation but after her din-
ner was over, and her housework done for
the day, she [-]ook the youth aside and
talked to him long and earnestly of his
mother and his early home. Then taking
from her pocket an old fashioned leather
purse, she took therefrom a crooked guinea
and a ring. The coin had been her father’s


[Column 1]
and grandfather’s also and the ring had
been her mother’s
“Take these, George,’’ she said, “and
keep the coin always. The ring give to
your wife when you have one, for it was to
have been your mother’s had I ever seen
her again. Our mother gave it to me to
keep for her.”
The ring was of very soft, yellow gold,
with pretty, open carving around the set-
ting, and a clear oval sapphire, with a small
pearl on each side formed the setting.
“It seems almost too much happiness for
one day, dear Aunt,” said George; and
then he told her of his engagement to Eliz-
abeth, and asked if she were willing for
him to give this ring to her as a pledge of
their love. His aunt gladly consented, for
she knew and admired the girl exceedingly
and felt sure it would find a worthy place
on Elizabeth’s finger.
When evening came, George called at
Elizabeth’s home, where there were other
young men of the Fort visiting. Elizabeth
and her two sisters were very popular
young ladies, so their home was frequently
a gathering place for young people. Eliz-
abeth’s father gave George a very warm
welcome this Christmas evening, which the
company attributed to his wonderful exper-
ience in the morning with the Indians; but
George knew by the warm pressure of the
hand and the merry twinkle in his eye that
her father knew of their love and approved
of him; and so the evening hours glided on.
Parching corn in the long-handled frying
pan was one amusement, while reciting
pieces and singing songs made pleasure,
too. Then some one proposed a story.
“Now who can tell a story like mother?”
said John. “Come, mother, bring some-
thing out of the Michigan forests, if its only
a ghost.”
“Oh yes, do,” said the young folks in a
chorus, “we just love ghost stories, if they
do make us creep.”
“That’s just John’s nonsense,” said his
mother, “but I will tell you of something
that happened when I was a young girl, that
I had almost forgotten until I heard today
of George’s prayer with the Indians and
that recalled it, for it was almost if not quite
as strange. “Twas Christmas morning, and
the snow had been falling all the day before
and all night, and lay around the house at
least a foot deep; and in the doorways and
by the fences, were great drifts a yard or
more deep. Not a soul had left the house,
and mother had just started to prepare
breakfast when there was a knock at the
kitchen door. The children were not
dressed, and we hesitated for a moment
about opening the door, for we expected a
great rush of cold and a fall of snow into
the room; but sending the children out of
the draft, mother opened the door, and in
walked a tall elderly man. No cold seemed
to come into the room, nor any snow; but
we did not notice that then, we only looked
at the man, who quietly entered and closed
the door behind him, then walked over by
the stove and sat down before speaking.
We were all quite taken back by his man-
ner, still no one spoke. Then he held out his
hands to the fire, and they were white and
soft as snow, and we began to note how
tall and straight and handsome he looked,
when suddenly he asked mother if he might
have breakfast with us.
“Just an ordinary tramp,” put in John.
“Wait,” said his mother, “until you
hear the rest of the story, and then see if

[Column 2]
you think him a tramp.” Then she con-
tinued.
“We ate our breakfast almost in silence,
but such wonderful peace seemed around
us, and we all felt something like one feels
in a Quaker meeting, such a pure holy
spirit in the silence. You know we were
Quakers before we joined the Church, and
so this silence didn’t cause us much aston-
shment like it would now. Well, when
breakfast was over, the stranger got up and
said, “The Lord bless this house.” Then
out he walked, and mother felt so strange
she went to the window to see which way
he went, but she couldn’t see anything of
him at all, so father said that he would go
out and look around a bit; and would you
believe it, when he opened the door, the
drift of snow fell in, and there was not a
footprint in the snow anywhere around.
Now what do you think that was?”
“Maybe it was the wandering Jew,’’said
John. He has lived so long he can walk
on air by this time.”
“Well, without laughing, we thought
perhaps it was him,” answered his mother,
“but since I joined the Church, sometimes
I have thought it might have been one of
the three Nephites. At any rate, I know
it is a true story, improbable as it seems.”
After this story the company were rather
quiet and subdued. It seemed to speak so
much of the supernatural, but soon a song
was proposed, and one of the young men in
a clear rich voice sang the sweet old-fash-
ioned song, “Mary of Argyle.”

I have heard the mavis singing
His love song to the morn.
I have seen the dewdrop clinging
To the rose just newly born;
But a sweeter s[-]ng has cheered me
At the evening’s gentle close,
I have seen an eye still brighter,
Than the dewdrop on the rose,
'Tis thy voice, my gentle Mary,
And thine artless winning smile,
That has made this earth an Eden
Darling Mary of Argyle.

This set the company in a happy
humor again, and they all joined in singing
one or two favorite hymns, and then the
company prepared to depart.
George had enjoyed the evening, still he
had wished it were possible to have a few
moments with Elizabeth alone. There
seemed so much to say, and young love is
ever impatient. He could think of no good
excuse, however, to keep him after the
others, and also started to go; but Eliza-
beth’s father called him back and asked him
to remain awhile.
The family seated themselves around the
fire, and the father took Elizabeth over by
her lover and placed their hands together,
saying, “she told me, George, last night,
and I welcome you as a dear son and mean
to help you in your endeavors. Go on as
you have begun, and I will have no fear
for you.” Then turning to his wife and
the other children, he further said, “Eliza-
beth and George are engaged, mother, and
I want you to feel that it is all right, for I
feel so, and they could not be happy with-
out your consent.”
The mother was a little overcome, but
she knew that love matches were the only
happy ones, and that no amount of coercion
would have any effect upon Elizabeth when
once her mind was made up, so she decided
to try and think it was for the best, and
she kissed her daughter very tenderly and
spoke sweetly to them both. George then
showed them the ring his aunt had that day

[Column 3]
given him, and told them its history.
Even if he had been able to buy a ring, he
could not have bought it for at least six
months, when some of the men would be
going back East to help more of the set-
tlers in to the valley, but he was a poor boy
and this was a very great treasure to him,
beautiful for itself, and for its history
as well, and he knew no place so fitting
for it as the hand of his sweetheart,
so he placed it there in the presence of her
father and mother, vowing her eternal de-
votion; and she, sweet girl, was full of emo-
tion. She had never possessed a jewel in her
life, and this seemed a glorious one, besides
it meant so much to her. She was not
gifted with any particularly fine language,
but spoke always from the heart, sincere
and plain, and to-night she said, “You will
never regret this gift to me. I will wear
it as a token of our love and cherish it
above all my possessions.”
“Before you leave us, George, we will
have our family prayer,” said the father;
and then they knelt and praised the Lord
for the peace aud happiness of their lives.
So ended the first Christmas in the Valley;
and that night at least, two lives were
happy and full of bright anticipation.
No home is so lowly or humble, but what
love’s fairy wand can render it beautiful; no
life so lonely or despondent, but when love
enters all the shadows flee. Love alone is
enticing and entrancing; but love combined
with faith is glorious and divine.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
red by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1903


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS GATHERINGS.
	One of the blessings of Christmas day
consists in the custom of bringing people
together, families and friends. In this
workaday world what would we grow to
be, if there were not some such times
of refreshing as that day affords; the world
wonld be barren of real pleasure indeed.
We would all become cold and distant, and
the charm of blessed intercourse would be
a lost art. Even as it is, with the holidays
we have and many other reunions, we are
not as good to each other, or as friendly as
we ought to be. Let us be thankful we
have these times and seasons, and to the
fullest extent appreciate the friendly greet-
ing, the sweet association, the good cheer,
the warm welcome, the grasp of the hand,
and good wishes, if it is only that and no-
thing more.
	Let us also remember the lonely ones,
who have not as much to make life desir-
able; if our lot has been cast in pleasant
places then so much more is required of
us. It is not all in giving good gifts; there
is something better even than giving of one’s
substance, reaching after and lifting up
those who are distressed, and who need
consolation, sympathy and tenderness.
	Sometimes the death of one alters the
condition of many and so year after year as
time goes on changes may come, and the
Christmas festivities may be saddened or
even interrupted and then we look back
fondly upon the days when the household
band was unbroken. Occasionally the ab
sence of a part of the family from the home
circle makes a difference, if so we should
pause and give some thoughts of love to
those necessarily away, those, who are per-
haps far distant; let us never be forgetful
of the loved ones who cannot share with us
this Christmas the happy hours. These
are things to treasure for a lifetime, out of
sight is not always out of mind, it is an ex-
pression that needs modifying.
	There are some remembrances that
should mingle in our thoughts every Chris-
mas, the blessings we are enjoying because
of the birth and life, and example of the
Redeemer of the world. Let us draw near
to Him through the Holy Spirit of life and
salvation vouchsafed to us who believe on
Him and have partaken of the blessings of
the Gospel.
	It is beautiful to recall his advent into
the world, to repeat the sacred story, and
to know that the stars which shine above

[Column 2]
us are the same that shed their radiance
over the babe in the manger, the echoes of
the songs that were sung in the fields of
Bethlehem are still ringing down the ages
of time; the same moon that heralded the
rising of the sun of righteousness looks
down upon us who live today. These
heavenly bodies witnessed the sojourn of
the Redeemer upon earth, they shone on
Him in the wilderness, they heard his mid-
night supplication and rose over his sepul-
chre in the holy land; a land forever sanc-
tified by his bleeding footsteps. The story
is never old, nor tiresome, however oft re-
peated. Sometimes one can almost hear
the shepherds’ voices as they sing “Hos-
annah! hosannah! Hosannah to God in the
highest! Peace on earth and good will to
men.”
	Many are the beautiful and uplifting
thoughts and emotions that fill our hearts
with praise and gratitude at Christmas
time, and would that one could always be
full of the sublime charity that characterized
the blessed Savior of mankind; the exalta-
tion of feeling that is inspired when one’s
whole mind is centred in the love and
praise of God, but we are far from reaching
this divine height of excellence; yet many
are striving to attain that purity of life and
light that will lift them above petty annoy-
ances, and help them to live in a purer at-
mosphere. We can never reach such an
ecstatic state alone, it must be by minister-
ing to those around us and helping them to
stand for the highest and the best, to stand
for righteousness. The Gospel we have
embraced teaches us all these things, and
let us press forward that we may attain
thereto.
	O, the magnitude of the work, it seems
so little one can do in a lifetime, and yet
we realize much has already been done by
those who laid the foundation, and we are
learning day by day to help, the Scripture
says “They also serve who only stand and
wait,” waiting is hard but patience is re-
quired for those who wait and we are told
patience is a virtue, also long suffering and
gentleness.
	The prosperity of the Latter-day Saints
in the present day is almost beyond belief.
Some of us who know the bitter past are
simply amazed at the change. It is indeed
wonderful to contemplate. We see, how-
ever, the fulfillment of prophecy in these
things, and the prosperity of Zion should
cause us to rejoice and sing praises to our
Heavenly Father, who has vouchsafed to
His Saints such blessings.
	Christmas is a good time to make mani-
fest our gratitude by ministering to others
and proving our loyalty to the Master
whose natal day we celebrate, giving liber-
ally to those in need, whether of food or
raiment, love or sympathy, remembering
His words: “Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me.”

“The star that shone in Bethlehem,
	Shines still and shall not cease;
And we listen still for the tidings
	Of Glory and of Peace.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Most of the space in this number of the
paper is taken for the story, we hope the
sisters will be satisfied with the departure
from the usual reports and so on. A change,
is good occasionally and this is not only a


good story with a moral lesson, but it is also
true, as no doubt many of our readers will
recognize.
	The Daughters of the Rovolution, Utah
State Society met on December 16, 1903,
anniversary of the Boston Tea Party, at
the home of Mrs. Phoebe Young Beatie,
First Vice Regent of the Society at 3:30 p.
m, Regent Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney Sears
presiding. After preliminary exercises the
paper of the day, Dolly Madison, was given
by Mrs. Almira Murdock de Wolf, of
Beaver. A very interesting character sketch
and read in a graceful and elegant style.
Story by Mary E. Richards Webber was
read by Mrs. Beatie, Mrs Webber being
necessarily absent. An original poem by
Mrs. Susa Young Gates given by Mrs.
Maria Young Dougall, completed the pro-
gram. Mrs. Beatie’s parlors were approp-
riately decorated for the occasion, and old-
fashioned refreshments served on old-fash-
oned china helped to make the conversa-
tion exhilarating and the hours glide swiitly
by. The Society is growing in numbers and
the spirit of patriotism is always in evi-
dence.


R. S, REPORTS.
PANGUITCH.
	The Panguitch Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held in the Tabernacle at Pan-
guitch August 28, 1903, President Eliza-
beth De Long presiding. Meeting opened
with singing and prayer, roll call and read-
ing of minutes. Reports were given from
Escelante, Panguitch, Hatch Henrieville,
Cannonville, Hillsdale, Kingston. Re-
marks were made by Sisters Barbara Myers,
Maria L. Sargent, Hannah I Harris, and
Counselor Alice Jane Cameron each spoke
upon a different subject, teaching of chil-
dren, grain question, labors of the Relief
Society, responsibilities of mothers, moth-
ers’ work.
	Bishop James B. Heywood spoke upon
home attractions, good reading, observing
the Sabbath day to keep it sacred, counseled
the young people to be married in the
House of the Lord.
	Sister Elizabeth Haycock bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and Sister
Margaret H. Clark spoke on mothers’ in-
fluence, advantage of pure thought and
good conversation. President Elizabeth De
Long gave a report of her trip around the
Stake, and spoke upon family influence and
home surroundings.
	Conference adjourned without date, bene-
diction by Patriarch Joseph L. Heywood.
		MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec.
BIG HORN.
	The second annual conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Big Horn Stake was held
at Cowley, Wyoming, September 11, 1903,
President Lucy F. Grant presiding. After
singing, prayer, roll call and minntes of
previons conference, the presidents of the
several wards reported conditions temporally
and spiritually, all seemed satisfactory and
in good working order.
	President Emma S. Woodruff, of the
Granite Stake, and who is also a member
of the General Board of the Relief Society,
said she sympathized with the pioneer sis-
ters, had felt very anxious for those who
had come hither to colonize, but felt we


were rich in the Gospel, all here are work-
ing for the same great cause; she read a let-
ter of instructions from the General Presi-
dent, Bathsheba W. Smith.
	First Counselor in the General Relief
Society, Annie T. Hyde, expressed herself
as delighted with the way the sisters had
reported. Spoke of the great good the
mothers’ work was doing among the sisters,
suggested the lectures be given to the sis-
ters that are somewhat backward.
	President Lucy F. Grant, Counselor Av-
ilda Dixon and Sister Abbie H. Cowley
made encouraging remarks to the sisters.
	Conference adiourned for one year. Ben-
ediction by Charlotte Lindsey.
		SADIE PARTRIDGE, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	It beconies our painful duty to report the death
of one of our noble sisters of the twenty-fitfh
Ward Relief Society, Sister Matilda Ek, wife of
Bishop Carl Ek, who passed away, Friday Nov.
6th, 1903, after a severe illness. She leaves a hus-
band and family of eight children, three boys and
five girls. She was a devoted wife and mother.
She filled the position of second counselor in the
Relief Society, to the satisfaction of all, and en-
deared herself to a host of friends, but as our
heavenly Father, in his wisdom has seen fit to call
home our Sister to a better life, we the officers and
members of the Twentieth-fifth Ward express our
sincere sympathy to the bereaved husband and
family in their loss, feeling also that they have
been greatly blessed with her wise and faithful ex-
ample. Our sister is not dead, she simply sleeps,
her intelligent part having gone to that bright
sphere, where the just await the time of their re-
demption, when there will be a reunion of the
spirit with the body through the power of the res-
urrection. Having slept in peace, she has secured
her title to be among the heavenly throng that will
accompany the Lord of glory, when he shall come
to this creation to take the reins of its government.
								F. T. N.
	Sister Elizabeth Nichols Berry one of the earl-
iest and most respected citizens of Cedar Fort,
Utah Co., Utah, passed away November 13th,
1903. Sister Berry was born April 7th, 1832, at
Ashorne, Warwickshire, England, and was mar-
ried to John Berry Feb. 17th 1852. She was bap-
tized October, 1851, and with her husband and
parents emigrated from England in 1853, locating
in Cedar Fort, in the spring of 1854. She was the
mother of nine children, four of whom survive
her, five having died before her, her descendants
numbered fifty-three at her death. The funeral
services were impressive and beautiful. Words
of praise were given by her Bishop and neighbors,
also by visiting sisters of the Stake presidency of
the Relief Society.
		RESOLUTIONS CF RESPECT.
	Whereas, God in his infinite wisdom has seen
fit to call from onr midst our beloved president 
and,
	Whereas, we recognized in Sister Elizabeth
Berry a faithful and energetic worker,


Therefore be It resolved by the sisters of the
Cedar Fort Relief Society that we mourn her loss,
but that we appreciate the purity of her life and
the worthy example she set for us to follow.
	Resolved:—That we extend to the bereaved onr
sincere sympathy and pray God that his comfort-
ing influence may be with them and lead them to
know that what is their loss is her gain.
	Be it Further Resolved:—That a copy of these
resolutions be spread upon the record of the so-
ciety, one copy sent to the family and one sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
				EMELINE DUBOIS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS' WORK.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

Lecture I— What Woman should know.

(a) Every woman should be the em-
	bodiment of purity, modesty, patience,
	affection and gratitude. (b) Woman
	should understand the physiology and
	hygiene of her own organism, (c) Home 
hygiene and sanitation, (d) Which are
	the most wholesome and valuable foods?
	(e)The value of milk as a food. (f)
	Symptoms of all common ailments and
	the remedies to be applied.

Lecture II.—Preparation for Motherhood.

(a) Chastity demanded of parenthood.
	(b) Relation of mother and child.
	(c) Material impressions, (d) When
	should education begin?
Lecture III.—Self Culture.

(a) Cultivate a love for the beauties
	of nature. (b) Use good language,
	(c)S udy self-control. (d) Avoid
	slang.

Lecture IV —Preparation and Care of the
		Infant.

(a) Let the clothing be light and
	warm, (b) Cleanliness and pure air
	essential to health. (c) Regularity in
	nursing and feeding.

Lecture V.—Mothers know Your Children.

(a) Use judgment and patience in
	dealing with them, (b) Avoid scolding
	and threatening, (c) Avoid bug-bear
	stories and dark closets, (d) Listen to
	and answer questions of your children.

Lecture VI.—Moral Training.

(a) Teach your children to love God
	and be governed by His laws. (b) To
	remember and apply the golden rule
	in every day life, (c) To show kind-
	ness and respect to the aged, (d) Train
	them in habits of industry and econ-
	omy. 

Lecture VII.—Parents Duties to Boys and
		Girls.

(a) Gain their love and confidence.
(b) Do not allow them to get informa-
	tion pertaining to physical changes
	from questionable sources. (c) Teach
	them to be prudent in selecting com-
	panions and avoid too great intimacies.

Lecture VIII.—The Ideal Home.

(a) Make home orderly and attract-
	 ive. (b) Refining influence of music.
	(c) Respect the rights ot each member
	of the household, (d) Home-reading—
let it be intertaining and elevating.
[Column 2]
Lecture IX—Home Adornments.

(a) Appropriate pictures elevate and
	inspire to noble thoughts and deeds.
(b) Flowers please the eye and cheer
	the soul. (c) Good books are an evi-
	dence of culture and a desire for knowl-
	edge.

Lecture X—Mother and Daughter.

(a) Give your daughter proper ideas
	in a judicious manner, (b) Impress
	her with the importance of being a
	home-maker, (c) Show her the dig-
	nity of domestic labor, (d) Care of
	her room and clothing. (e) How can
	the daughter bring sunshine and com-
	fort in the home? (f) What can she
	do to lighten the burdens of mother?
	(g)What can she do to keep her
	brothers at home?

Lecture XI.—Behavior at Home and Abroad.

(a) Thoughtfulness for the comfort
	and feelings of others. (b) Avoid
	contradictions, (c) Loud laughter and
	boisterous talk are unbecoming. (d)
	True politeness is an index to char-
	acter.

Lecture XII—Table Manners.
		(a) Do not introduce disagreeable
	subjects at table. (b) Pleasant con-
	versation aids digestion, (c) Do not
	express special preference or dislike for
	certain foods.
					LEONORA T. SPENCER,
					MILLIE CLARK,
					NANCY H. ALLRED,
								Committee.

JULIA P. LINDSAY
				President.
	LIZZIE M. HART,
	MARY BAGLEY,
				Counselors.


			ALPINE STAKE.
Lesson VII.—Childhood.
			Physical Development:
		(a) Building a healthy body. (Ref
	“School and Fireside’’ (Maeser) chap-
	ter 4). (b) Care of infant during
teething, (c) Outdoor exercise, sun-
	shine, work and play. (d) Methods of
	proper bothing, proper dress, food and
	slep. (e) Best ways to assist nature in
	efforts to prevent sickness or to remedy
	disease when contracted.

Lesson VIII.—Childhood (continued).

Moral Development:
		(a) Mother the child’s first companion.
	Her example and its influence. (Ref.
