Vol. 32				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1903					No. 5


CONTENTS.
International Council of Women....................	33
Mothers’ Work........................................	35,	39
General Relief Society Conference................	37
In Memoriam..................................................	40
Biography and Resolution..............................	40
EDITORIAL—Instruction to Missionaries....	36
	Woman’s Council...................................	36
	Honor to Apostle Heber J. Grant............	36
	Meeting of the D. R................................	37
	A Pleasant Afternoon..............................	37
	U. W. P. C. Meeting ...............................	37
POETRY—I Have Seen All The Way............	33


I HAVE SEEN ALL THE WAY.
	Edith, fair and beloved, all night lay in the
slumber of death. “She will regain conscious-
ness no more,” a sage one said. But the mother
wails that she had not bade her goodbye, and with
the untold strength of her love, called her back.
“O mother, I’ve seen the way,” she said, and
afterwords of undying love, “I am not afraid, for
I’ve seen all the way;” the beautiful eyes closed
on the world.

	Oh, I have seen all, all the way.
I walked, my hand clasped in the angel’s own,
O’er purple hills and winding pathways lone,
	To love’s abode—eternal day.
I grew not weary, tarried not for long—
Anon there floated far away a song—
	Birds chanted sweet a roundelay.

	O, I have seen all, all the way!
The city’s mansions by the shining sea,
That warm waves gently kiss in laughing glee,
	They frolic, sporting there in play.
Paradasaic joys my soul hath known,
Seraphic music sung in angel tone,
	Where fountains toss so high their spray.

	O, I have seen all, all the way.
My mother, oh, I heard thy gentle voice
Soft calling me, I could not then rejoice
	Though all around the glory lay.
To come to thee, it cost me, O, such pain,
I longed to see thy blessed face again.
	Alone I walked back all the way.

	O, I have seen all, all the way!
Again, O love, I feel thy kisses sweet,
In rapture, too, again thy sad eyes meet,
	Farewell, I hasten now away.
I feel no fear of darkness—none is near,
Alone I go, O dearest, shed no tear,
	I know, I know e’en all the way.

	O, I have, seen all, all the way!
I tremble not, alone fear not to go;
My throbbing heart is wildly beating so
	It seems the chords must tear away.
The myst’ries hid of life and death I’ve seen,
Invisible the bonnd’ry—worlds between—
	Dividing thus the night from day.

	O, some time thou’lt see all the way!
The landscape fair down by the silver sea,
The home where ransomed ones fore’er will be,
	With God to dwell alway, alway.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
To the Readers of the Women Exponent.
	Among those whom this address describes
are many of our Council workers, and it,
therefore, seems proper to send to such
through the columns of this paper, some

[Column 2]
news concerning the progress of the Council
movement.
	In writing upon this subject, I always
feel like, “harking back” to the significance
of the phrase “Council Movement.” What
does it mean? It means the movement
whose object is to draw together people
who are to a degree unlike; who have hith-
erto thought themselves too unlike to unite
in any common work:—to bring such
people together with the conscious and
avowed intention of finding some common
work in doing which they can unite.
	I need hardly remind American women
that this movement originated in Washing-
ton in 1888 with a convention International
in character, called to celebrate the fortieth
anniversary of the movement on behalf of
the political enfranchisement of American
Women. This is only fifteen years ago,
and surely, the results, of the effort then
inaugurated to make the influence of that
organization felt beyond the limits which
had hitherto bound it, are far from being
discouraging. Further recapitulation here
is unnecessary—suffice it that the Council
movement in its International application
has reached a state where it is necessary in
order to carry on its work to hold annually
a meeting of its Executive Committee. Such
a meeting was held in Dresden in August
of this year.
	During my own administration, Execu-
tives have been held previously in 1900 in
Paris; 1901 at the Hague 1902 in Copen-
hagen. The one at Dresden in 1903 was
convened with a view to its occupying the
17th, 18th, and 19th of August. As a
matter of fact, it ran over into the 20th, and
made that day as busy and as long as any
one of its predecessors. It was not un-
natural that the Dresden Executive should
have been better attended than any of the
preceding annual Executives of the Coun-
cil, for we were within a year of the meet-
ing of the Quinquennial which back in
1899 was set for Berlin, and then seemed a
long way off.
	When the International Council, ad-
journed in London in 1899, it was com-
posed of ten National Councils, three of
these having been voted in that same year.
It now includes nineteen National Councils
two having been voted in at Dresden. At
Dresden, all of the general officers except-
ing only the Recording Secretary, Mille.
Camille Vidart of Switerland, were present;
and all but two of the Councils were repre-
sented either by their own president, vice-
president, or a bona fide proxy. The
sessions, though devoted strictly to busi-
ness and requiring a great deal of hard
work were very interesting, and some im-
portant decisions were arrived at in which
all Council women will be interested. The
most important were in relation to the
Quinquennial at Berlin, and to summarize
these as briefly as possible, it may be
stated: That the Quinquennial proper of
the International Council will occupy the
week beginning June 6th. The Executive
will be convened on Tuesday morning
June the 7th. Besides the Executive ses-
sions, which will run through the week,

[Column 3]
probably occupying all of the mornings,
the Council will hold three public meetings
on the evenings of June 11th, 12th, and
13th.
	The International Council will be con-
vened according to the laws and customs of
Germany under the auspices of the Na-
tional Council of Germany whose President
will give the address of welcome. This
will be responded to by the president of the
International Council, who will then take
charge of the meeting, and present the
President of each National Council, or her
proxy, together with the general officers of
the International, and the honorary vice-
presidents who are beginning the organi-
zation of the National Councils, in count-
ries where such are not yet formed. The
theme of this meeting will be what the
President of the International Council
sometime since named “The New Inter-
nationalism,” and its object will be both
demonstration and propaganda. The sec-
ond evening will be a continuance of the
discussion of Internationalism, the subject
being illuminated by reports from every
one of the twenty-two National Councils
that it is believed will at the time, compose
the International. The theme on the third
evening will be Peace and Arbitration
which will be discussed in three formal ad-
dresses; one in English which Lady Aber-
deen has been invited to give, the second
in German by Baroness Von Suttner, and
the third in French is to be given by some
member of the French Council elected by
that Council to perform this noble task.
	The International Congress, all prepara-
tions for which will be made by the Na-
tional Council of Women of Germany will
be opened on Monday June 13th, and will
occupy the week adjourning on Saturday
the 18th. The committee of Arrangements
for the International Congress is composed
of the officers of the National Council of
Germany together with the associates that
have been elected for the purpose. The
Congress will be conducted in four sections
running simultaneously, so far as day ses-
sions are concerned during the week. The
sections will be convened under the follow-
ing titles:—
	(1) Women’s Education and Higher
Culture (under general charge of Fraulein
Lange, and Fraulein Baumer).
	(2) Women in Social Aims and Institut-
on (founded either for or by women for
the improvement of social conditions). This
section will discuss such questions as Tem-
perance, Social Purity, etc., and is under
the general charge of Frau Edinger.
	(3) Women’s Professions and Industries
(under general charge of Fraulein Alice
Saloman).
	(4)The Legal and Political Position of
Women (under the general charge of Freien
Von Beschwitz.)
	Baroness Von Beschwitz is the chairman
of the standing committee of the Inter-
national Council on Laws concerning Do-
mestic Relations. She has had great diffii-
culty, as every one must have who under-
takes International work in organizing a
committee which shall include an active


[Column 1]
representative from every one of the affilia-
ted Councils. The Baroness has, however,
worked with as much tact as diligence, and
the experience which she has had in organ-
izing her committee will enable her to do
most effective work as the leader of this
section of the International Congress.
	The present intention is that these s[---]-
ions shall meet for six days from 6 a. m. to
2 o’clock p. m. An effort will be made to
have the present position and work of the
women of every country within the Council
properly presented. The discussions will
be limited strictly to the rights and duties
of women in connection with the various
subjects indicated. The afternoons of Con-
gress week as well as the evenings will be
occupied by large public meetings and social
gatherings. The subjects for the public
meetings are as follows:—
	(1) Education
	(2) Suffrage for Women
	(3) Equal Pay for Equal Work
	(4) Women in Science and Art. 
	The phrasing of these titles will doubt-
less be altered as preparations go forward
before any formal program is printed, but
the general themes are plainly indicated in
the foregoing statements.
	The Committee of Arrangements includes
a large number of Germany’s most able
women. These women are fired by a legi-
timate ambition to demonstrate to the world
how German women can convene and pre-
pare for an International Congress on a
scale large and generous enough to justify
its title.
	Many questions have been asked as to the
possibility of enjoying such freedom of
speech as a program including the subjects
named would imply. I am constantly in
receipt of letters questioning the possibility
of this. I am assured, however, on the
very best authority that there will be no
limitation whatever on freedom of speech,
excepting such limitation as good sense and
good breeding would indicate. According
to German law the meetings must be con-
vened by the Germans themselves. Once
convened all legitimate liberty will be en-
joyed. The German women are illustrating
the energy, patience, and capacity for work
characteristic of their countrymen. They
began their work long enough in advance
to justify the conviction that strangers will
find the arrangements perfect in every detail.
There is no doubt that the members of the
Committee of Arrangements are united in
their intention to be just and impartial in
the apportionment of time and opportunity
to the representatives of different countries to
set forth their views on every subject. 
	The President of every National Council
has been invited to send a list of the names
of persons whom it would seem most suita-
ble to invite to speak in meetings of such
International importance; and in every
country so far as heard from, the President
of every Council in preparing such a list has
followed a method similar to that adopted
by Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, the President of
the National Council of Women of the
United States. Some time ago Mrs. Swift
issued a letter to the President of every
National organization and every Local Coun-
cil belonging to the National Council asking
her to nominate women to present papers,
and to participate in the discussion of the
International Congress of 1904. Each such
President was invited to nominate (first)
such members of her own organization as
seemed desirable; (second) women outside

[Column 2]
of her organization and in any part of the
country, whose culture, and achievments
would indicate the propriety of their being
invited to take part in such a meeting.
	Mrs. Swift invited her correspondents to
send their answers to her communication
before October 15th, so that she might find
them awaiting her arrival. Mrs. Swift
arrived in New York on October 20th. She
will come directly to Indianapolis where her
correspondents were invited to address their
replies to her official communication, and
where she will make up the lists of speakers
and writers to be sent to the German Com-
mittee of Arrangements. Mrs. Swift has
invited me to assist her in this work. It is
the desire of both of us that a large number
of American women shall be present in
Berlin during the Third Quinquennial of
the International Council, and the Interna-
tional Congress which will follow it. It is,
moreover, our desire that the American point
of view on every question discussed at both
the Council Quinquennial and the Congress
shall be ably presented. We unite in solic-
ting suggestions concerning the best pos-
sible speakers, writers, and participants in
discussions etc. from all sources. Any one
who reads this article, and is interested in
its contents is invited to send her sugges-
tions concerning American representatives
on the program of the Congress, either to
the President of the National organization
to which she belongs, which in turn is affil-
iated with the National Council of Women
of the United States, to the President of the
Local Council to which she belongs, or di-
rectly to the President of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States who dur-
ing October may be addressed at 633 N.
Pennsylvania St, Indianapolis, Indiana.
	One very important decision was reached
at the Dresden Executive which should be
mentioned here. The German Committee
of Arrangements gave notice that it was
their purpose that no one should speak in
the public meetings whose voice can not
easily be heard in the largest auditorium,
and that no one should be either invited or
permitted to read papers or take part in dis-
cussions in the sectional meetings, who can
not speak in a voice to be heard easily in a
hall of ordinary size adapted to a sectional
Congress meeting. People who have suf-
fered (and who has not?) the agony of strain-
ing to hear weak, wavering, unpenetrating
voices, will rejoice at this decision, and I
make no doubt that women of such firmness
of character as constitute the German Com-
mittee of Arrangements will carry out their
purpose.
	I am often asked what language will be
used at the Congress. According to a de-
cision made in 1900 in Paris, any speaker or
writer may present her views in English,
German, or French. So far as papers are
concerned, in as much as the audiences will
necessarily be largely composed of Germans,
if papers are to be given in French or Eng-
lish, it seems proper that German transla-
tions should be made, and distributed to the
audience.
	Long ago when the National Council of
Women of the United States was organized,
the question arose as to whether an organi-
zation which was committed to the policy of
making no propaganda for any cause that
did not command the unanimous vote of its
Executive, could ever do anything of any
consequence. The founders of the Council
then said: “Let all organizations that are
committed to a definite propaganda enter

[Column 3]
the Council, let the Council itself remain a
non-partisan, meeting ground and the result
will be that it will become a more efficient
agent in the promotion of Woman Suffrage
than a Suffrage organization itself ever can
be.” It would seem as if this declaration
was justified by what has happened in the
short space of fifteen years—even in the
short space of four years. In 1899 a diffi-
culty arose as to having a public meeting
on Suffrage held under the auspices of the
International Council. Now, the Commit-
tee of Arrangements for an International
Congress in the country that has always
been regarded as the peculiar realm of the
house-frau provides for the same recognition
of Woman’s Suffrage as of the Higher Edu-
cation of Women. This simple fact is sig-
nificant of much.
	The chairman of the Committee of local
arrangements for both the Quinquennial of
the Council, and the International Congress
is Frau Hedwig Heyl. Frau Heyl who is,
I understand, aided by a most admirably
selected committee, announced at Dresden
that the Philharmonic Hall in Berlin would
be available for the meetings of both Inter-
national Council, and International Con-
gress. Frau Heyl was herself in attendance
upon the Executive at Dresden, and par-
ticularly asked that each National Council
should make a collection of the photographs
of their leading pioneer women, and of its
members who would necessarily be absent,
for the decoration of the rooms in which the
meetings will be held.
	At Dresden, just as much social pleasure
as was compatible with the heavy work on
hand, was provided for the entertainment
of the delegates. On the evening of the
16th, the officers of the German Council
entertained the officers of the International
Council, and the members of the Executive
with a company of selected guests from
their own National Council at a beautiful
banquet. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes-
day, the members of the Executive were
entertained together at luncheon; a function
which in the length of time it occupied,
might well have been called a banquet. On
all of these occasions, conversation was en-
livened by toasts, clever speeches and
music. On Thursday, after the late adjourn-
ment of the Executive, its members were
entertained by the officers of the German
Council by a trip to Meissen, and given a
beautiful luncheon in the garden overlook-
ing this picturesque old suburb. Arriving
at Meissen, before repairing to the garden
for luncheon, the guests were conducted by
their hostesses through devious ways up
and down streets that are rugged to the
point of being precipitous, to pay their rev-
erent respects to the memory of Louise Otto,
by looking at the house where she lived for
many years, and where her death took place
in——. As a tablet placed by the German
Council shows Louise Otto was the founder
of the woman’s movement in Germany, and
if one may credit the statements of her ad-
mirers, she must have been a woman most
richly endowed; erudite and eloquent, a re-
former and a poet, she united the culture
which can only be gathered in retirement,
with the passion for humanity which often
summoned her from her retirement to the
forefront of publicity. Louise Otto is re-
garded by German women as Lucretia Mott,
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony
and Lucy Stone are regarded by Americans,
and as they will increasingly be regarded
as American women come more and more


to seek the roots of the tree of knowledge
and opportunity whose fruits they now so
freely pluck.
	If the International Council has already
a vitality which will compel women to come
together from widely scattered countries at
the expense and fatigue incident to journeys
of thousands of miles, merely that they may
confer three or four days in business ses-
sions, we may anticipate that public meet-
ings like the Quinquennial of 1904, and the
International Congress incident to it, will
not be lacking in participants, or in auditors.
May the United States of America, furnish
its full quota of both!
	The increasing growth of the Council
may be inferred from the fact that the Pres-
ident was authorized to name Honorary
Vice Presidents for Peru, Chili, Mexico,
Japan, and Turkey; in each country steps
having been taken looking toward Council
organization.
	Hoping that the business core of commu-
nication will not be lost by its readers in
the digressions which have been made, and
hoping that prompt responses may soon
come from every Council worker who would
have a voice in suggesting names for the
programs of next summer’s meeting, I con-
clude a communication written for Mrs. Swift
as well as myself,
		(signed) MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
	President of the International Council
				of Woman.
October 20, 1903.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.

	OUTLINE, SALT LAKE STAKE.

Lectu;e VII.—The Gospel the Embodiment
	of all Good:
		(I) Truth, Honesty, Obedience, in-
	tegrity and all the beautiful in life.
	“Casting down imagination and every
	high thing that exalteth itself against
	the knowledge of God, and bringing
	into captivity every thought to the 
	obedience of Christ.”
		II Corinthians, chap. x, verse v.

Lecture VIII.—Social Home Life:
		Refinded entertainment and social in-
	struction in the home is a counter-at-
	traction and prepares the young man
	and woman to meet and judge properly
	life and influence in the world.
		(I) Mutual participation with parents
	and children in conversation and 
	amusements.
		(a) Teach order, thoughtfulness,
	obedience and politeness in the home,
	at the table and in conversation.
		(b) Encourage sports and games out-
	doors as well as in for physical devel-
	opment and mental recreation.

Lecture IX.—Education Theoretical and
	Practical:
		“The glory of God is intelligence.”
	Education is the greatest factor both in
	the business and in the social world.
		(I) It is a help both to the teacher
	and the child when parents interest
	themselves in school life.
		(a) Study the natural bent of the
	child’s nature and strive to educate to
	future needs.
		(b) Avoid a waste of brain tissue,
	bodily strength, time and means by
	cramming and training in useless
	lines.

[Column 2]
		(c) Literature and the Arts com-
	bined with manual training and domes-
	tic science make the useful and refined
	life.
		The truest and best education is that 
	which makes the man or woman the
	most useful.

Lecture X.—Spiritual Character:
			“As it is done in heaven.”
		(I) Reverence authority. Obedience
	is the first law of heaven and order is
	the result of that obedience.”
		(a) The priesthood the government
	of God upon the earth.
	“The truth will make you free” (Doc. and 
Cov. Lecture 84. verses 21 and 22.)

Lecture XI.—Marriage:
		The parents are the high priests
	responsible to God for the spirit of
	their ministry. The home is the sanc-
	tuary of the human race where each
	generation is consecrated for life’s
	work.
		(I) Teach the sacredness and glory
	of the Temple marriage compared with 
	the temporal.
		(a) Dwell upon the rights of eternal
	inheritance and warn against the dis-
	inheritance of our posterity.
		The ties that bind us here
			Are not for life alone,
		No! hold them ever dear
			In heaven they’re closer drawn,”

Lecture XII.—Patriotism:
	“We bel[-]eve in being subject to Kings, Presi-
dents, rulers and magistrates in obeying, honor-
ing and sustaining the law.”

		Every family owes the sacred duty of
	planting in the minds and hearts of lts
	growing members, enthusiasm for
	their country, love for its history and 
	its flag, obedience to its laws and rev-
	erance for its institutions.
		(I) If you wish your sons and
	daughters to make good citizens instil
	in their hearts a love and devotion for
	home and country.
		The greatest Americans have had
	patriotic mothers.
			ANNIE W. CANNON,
			CARRIE S. THOMAS,
			JULIA S. WOOLLEY,
						Committee.


[Column 1]
		EREMONT STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Fremont
Stake was held July 27th, 1903 in Flamm’s
Hall, Rexburg, Idaho, President Temp-
erance Hinckley presiding. After the usual
exercises etc., the stake officers were sustain-
ed. The President called for reports, fif-
teen branches were satisfactorily reported
out of seventeen. Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff, President of Granite Stake and mem-
ber of the General Board complimented
the sisters on their good reports and
stated that she had asked President Bath-
sheba W. Smith what she should say to
the sisters; she replied. “Tell them to get
the spirit of God and keep it.”
	Sister Woodruff urged them to get the
young mothers out to attend the lectures
and to join the society, have them help sing
and lecture they will make your meetings
more interesting and beneficial to all. “We
will be judged out of the books and if we
have no credit marks it will be a poor
	ord.”

[Column 2]
	Explained the Woman’s Building and
spoke upon purity and duties of teachers;
read minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society and some minutes of the first
meetings; exhorted all to take the EXPON-
ENT, as it would be a great help.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt love and
sympathy for all women, thought pioneer
life had been a good school, like purifying
gold; spoke of the progress of the society
for the last fifty years and on home influence,
developing of mind, teaching children the
principles of the Gospel was beautifully por-
trayed, light and intelligence has flowed
from heaven in the heart of woman since
this society was organized; spoke upon Tem-
ple work and the blessings lost by those who
married outside.
	Apostle M. F. Cowley congratulated the
sisters on their labor and spoke of Temple
work, the necessity of getting genealogy,
told them to work together in harmony, have
no envy or jealousy among you, be broad and
generous in your views and you will be
blest, women have great influence for good
or evil, gave much good counsel.
	Elder J. Golden Kimball spoke upon a
wife’s influence, earnestly advised mothers
to teach their children right, referred to the
grand work of this society. What it
had done in sending out qualified nurses,
they are angels of mercy. Said you are
casting your bread upon the waters, his
sympathy was with the women, they were
doing a great missionary work, touched up-
on faith and industry.
	President Thomas E. Bassett endorsed all
that had been said, and added that he
would like every Relief Society in the stake
to have a good granary built and ready to
put their wheat in this fall; he was thank-
ful for the instructions received.
	At the afternoon session, Counselor
Annie T. Hyde gave a discourse on various
duties of the sisters, laying up wheat and
the care of it, explained the Woman’s
Building in detail, also mother’s work, how
it should be conducted, the love and care of
children; advised all to take the EXPONENT
urged the sisters to choose a committee and
have a plan of work prepared for the stake
and submitted to the General Board for ap-
proval. “Live the Gospel and be patient,
your reward will be sure”.
	President Emma S. Woodruff spoke upon
the power of love, the great things that
could be accomplished through it, gave her
experience of her own work as a teacher,
how she had traveled six and seven miles
with her baby in her arms to teach and visit
the sisters, spoke with much earnestness on
Temple work, advised all to respect the
priesthoodand to have love and charity, with-
out this they could not be happy, Advised 
them to hold officers meetings once a month.
President Temperance Hinckley gave a vote
of thanks to the visiting sisters. Counselor
Matilda Flamm made a few remarks express-
ing her joy and good will towards all and
desire to press forward in the work.
	A committee was then elected to prepare
a plan of mother’s work, Sisters Susan
Stevens, Martha Lloyd, Sarah A. Barnes
and Carrie Smith. It was stated by the
President that a Stake Fair was to be held
at the next quarterly conference and it was
suggested each member make some article
for the Fair to be sold to create a fund for
the stake, she said in closing, “I trust you
will all try and put in practice the good and
grand instructions we have had today.” Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
		SARAH A. BARNES, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1903


INSTRUCTIONS TO MISSIONARIES.
	We have but two organizations of our
sisters that are recognized in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—the Re-
lief Society; and the Young Ladies, (the
Primary is composed of both girls and boys.)
The class of Nurses and the Mothers’
Work are under the Relief Society, have
no separate organization or separate meet-
ings, and the same President and Counsel-
ors. If the Relief Society President and
Counselors wish to choose help to assist
them, they may select such help as they
think best to lecture, etc.
	The first duty of the President, Counsel-
ors, and other officers and teachers, is to
look after the poor and needy, sick and des-
titute; and to look after the morals of the
young. Teach them to be industrious,
truthful, kind and obliging. Mothers
should teach their children to pray, to ob-
serve the Sabbath day, to pay their tithing
and fast-day donations; never to smoke, or
use stimulants of any kind; never to swear,
or use bad words or slang; to attend Sunday
School and not congregate on the streets at
night; to be neat and tidy in their dress and
not follow after the Gentile fashions to ex-
cess. Be kind to animals; and let love
abound in their hearts. Be united in all
good works and the Lord will bless you
and your joy will be full.
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
	ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
	IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.
						Counselors.
Salt Lake City, April 30, 1903.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN’S COUNCIL
	NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL
	Perhaps only a few women, comparatively
speaking, comprehend the objects and aims
of the great Councils of women that hold
their sessions triennially and quinquennially
in the United States and other countries.
	If, in brief, a correct idea of these two
great organizations can be given, it would
be an advantage to us all, perhaps, and, at
any rate, increase our knowledge of what
women are doing, and striving to accom-
plish for humanity.
	Most of our sisters know a great deal
about suffrage, having heard it so many
years, and also having had practical exper-
ience, and object lessons on the subject.
	Out of the National Woman’s Suffrage
Association grew the International Council

[Column 2]
of Women. If one were to follow out the
idea of our dear departed Sister Eliza R.
Snow, one would say it was organized, a
head without a body, but as the child’s
head is always presented first in nature, one
need not be blamed for following nature’s
example.
	The formation of the International Coun-
cil originated with a few grand, women,
and was the result, one might say, of forty
years experience in “a demand for equal
educational, industrial, professional and
political rights for women,” the forty years
dating from the convention held at Seneca
Falls, New York, in 1848.
	The call for the convening of the Interna-
tional Council of Women says:
	“To celebrate the fortieth anniversary of
the event an international Council of
Women will be convened under the auspices
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion in Albaugh’s Opera House, Washing-
ton, D. C., on March 25, 1888.”
	There is not space to give all the call
here, but it was signed by the officers of the
N. W. S. A. under whose auspices it was
convened, and an extensive program pre-
pared. The Council lasted eight days and
held fifteen public sessions.
	The Constitution of this Council in respect
to its “General Policy” reads:
	“This International Council is organized
in the interest of no one propaganda, and
has no power over its auxilaries beyond
that of suggestion and sympathy. No
National Council voting to become auxi-
liary to the International shall thereby ren-
der itself liable to be interfered with in re-
spect to its complete organic unity, inde-
pendence or methods of work, or shall be
committed to any principle, or method of
any other council, or to any utterance, or
act of the International Council beyond
compliance with the terms of this Constitu-
tion.”
	This great International Council has five
general officers—president, vice-president-
at-large, corresponding secretary, recording
secretary and treasurer. Each president of
a National Council is ex-officio vice-presi-
dent of the Iniernational Council.
	The first president of the International
Council was Millicent Grant Fawcett, Eng-
land; Vice-President-at-Large Clara Barton,
American; Corresponding Secretary Rachel
G. Foster, America; Recording Secretary
Kristine Frederickson, Denmark; Treasurer
Isabelle Bogelot, France.
	The first officers of the National Council
were:
	President Frances E. Willard, Vice-Presi-
dent-at-Large Susan B. Anthony, Corres-
ponding Secretary, May Wright Sewall,
Recording Secretary Mary F. Eastman,
Treasurer M. Louise Thomas.
	The National Council of Women has
the same Constitution as the Interhational
except such differences as must naturally re-
sult from what would be natural in one
country, and what all countries combined
would make. The National Council of the
United States holds triennial sessions and
is composed of national organizations, while
the International holds quinquennial ses-
sions and is composed of National Councils
of different countries.
	The preamble to the constitution of the
National Council reads, “We women of
the United States,” the International pre-
amble reads, “We women of all nations.”
	The first quinquennial of the Interna-
tional was held at Chicago in 1893, and the
next in London in 1899. The next quin-

[Column 3]
quennial will be held in Berlin, Germany,
in 1904.
	All triennials of the National Council of
the United States have been held in Wash-
ington, D. C. The next triennial of the
National Council will be held in 1905.
	The Relief Society joined the National
Council of Women of the United States at
its first triennial in 1891. The National
Council holds annual executive sessions in
different states, the last one was held in
New Orleans in March of this year, the
next one will be held in Indianapolis in
1904.
	The International Council also holds an-
nual executive sessions in different coun-
tries. This year the I. C. W. held its an-
nual in Dresden, Germany. Last year it
was held in Copenhagen, Denmark.
	A single paragraph from the speech of
the Countess of Aberdeen, president of the
International Council at its opening session
in London in 1899 will give a good idea of
the Council. “It will be asked how in the
world can such a conglomeration of associa-
tions existing in so many different countries
and formed for so many various objects,
some actually opposed to one another and
comprising hundreds of thousands of
women of different religions, different races
and upbringings, have an intelligible pur-
pose and work together for a practical end?
	“And yet we claim that in the very var-
iety of opinions and ideas and methods of
work, which exist among us, lies our raison
d’etre, the centre and kernel of our being.
For the unity which it is our aim to seek
after does not lie in identity of organization
nor in identity of dogma, but in a common
consecration to the service of humanity in
the spirit of that love which we hail as the
greatest thing in the world.”
	The motto of the Council is the golden
rule, “Do unto others as you would they
sholud do unto you.”


HONOR TO APOSTLE H. J. GRANT.
	A very pleasant company gathered by in-
vitation Monday evening, Oct. 12, at the
Old Cannon Home on Cannon Farm, by in-
vitation of General John Q. and Mrs. Can-
non in honor of the distinguished guest,
Apostle Grant, and his wife. The evening
was pleasantly passed in social chat and some
very interesting reminiscences of Brother
Grant’s sojourn in Japan, his experiences in
various ways, his descriptions of the habits,
and customs of the people, their manners,
their language and economy, his ideas con-
cerning the future of the mission there, all
entertainingly given, was very new and edi-
fying to those who had so little knowledge of
this great people about whom we hear so
much and know so little.
	Some choice songs by Mrs. Carol Y. Can-
non, accompanied by Miss Grace Cannon,
and negro melodies and whistling by Bishop
Whitney; and by urgent request he sang the
old song “No Irish Need Apply.”
	Refreshments were served by the hostess
assisted by Miss Grace Cannon and the
daughters Louise, Margaret and Emme-
line. The guests were Apostle Heber J.
Grant and wife, Governor Heber M. Wells
and wife, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Bishop
O. F. Whitney and wife, Mrs Lydia Ann
Wells, Elder Rulon S. Wells and wife, Mrs.
Eliza T. Cannon, Mrs. Susan H. Wells, Mr.
H. L. A. Culmer and wife, Mrs. Isabel M.
W. Sears, Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon, and
Mrs. E. B. Wells, together with the numer-
ous houseful of little Cannons, including the
wonderful twins.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEETING OF THE D. R.
	The Daughters of the Revolution State
Society met on Friday, October 16, 1903, at
the residence of Dr. and Mrs. E. S. Wright.
The handsome parlors and hall were beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion with bright
autumn flowers and leaves in abundance,
asters, dahlias and chrysanthemums, etc.
The stars and stripes were displayed, also the
new State flag made by the Daughters at the
request of the Governor, and used for the
first time at the Fair grounds in St. Louis
when the site for the Utah building was dedi-
cated. The Regent, Mrs. I. M. W. Sears, pre-
sided and there was a goodly attendance of
the members. Business was transacted retal-
ating to the fac similes of the Declaration of
Independence, also in regard to collection of
books and press notices to be forwarded to
the Library of the General Society in New
York City.
	One new member was voted in and heartily
welcomed in with a rising vote, Mrs. Ann
Louise Lyman King, wife of Judge Wm. H.
King, member of the U. S. Congress from
Utah for some years.
	The topic of the day was Benjamin Frank-
lin, and was given by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth and was delightfully rendered
and entertainingly prepared. The song
“America,” set to the new prize music, was
sung by Mrs. Carol Young Cannon in fine
style. Mrs. Cannon has a remarkably rich,
musical voice, Miss Grace Cannon accompan-
ed her on the piano. Meeting closed with
benediction by Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
and afterwards dainty refreshments were
served and social conversation indulged in.
Dr. Wright favored the ladies with some sel-
ections on the piano. The next meeting,
Nov. 16, will be at the residence of Judge and
Mrs. King.


A PLEASANT AFTERNOON.
	Mrs. Walter Pyper gave an afternoon
luncheon, Tuesday, Oct. 15, to a few ladies
at her pretty new home in this city, in honor
of her mother, Mrs Gurene Torgenson, who
is here from Logan on a visit to her daughter.
The rooms were prettily decorated with late
flowers and autumn leaves which were charm-
ingly bright and cheery. The luncheon was
artistically served, and consisted of a very
appetizing and dainty variety and the conver-
sation was mostly reminiscences of early days
when Mrs. Torgenson lived in Salt Lake
City before her marriage, and was naturally
very agreeable to the friends of the guest of
honor, as well as herself, and amusing to the
younger generation, Mrs. Pyper and Mrs.
Whitney.
	The ladies present were Mrs. Torgenson,
guest of honor, Mrs. Orson F. Whitney,
Mrs. Alexander Pyper, Mesdames Martha G.,
Lydia Ann, Susan H., Hannah C. and E. B.
Wells; Mrs. Walter Pyper hostess. The day
will be a happy remembrance in the minds of
all present, thanks to the amiable and kindly
hostess.


U. W. P. C. MEETING.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
first meeting after the summer vacation, Sat-
urday evening, September 26, 1903 at the
residence of Hon. Andrew Jenson and wife,
Mrs. E. S. Wilcox, the president, presiding.
	The attendance of members was not very
large, but there were a number of invited
guests, among them President Anthon H.
Lund and wife. Current events were given
by Mrs. C. C. R. Wells, and Mrs. E. B. Wells


by request gave the origin and objects of the
Press Club. President Lund made a brief
address, dwelling upon education, gaining in-
telligence and similar themes. Brother
Andrew Jenson gave a fifteen minutes talk on
his trip around the world in which he touched
many countries, encountered many people,
heard many languages, saw many curious
things, and told it in such a graphic manner
that the audience were almost spell-bound.
	The meeting closed with prayer, and then
we were nearly deluged with good things to
eat altogether the evening was delightfully
pleasant, thanks to Sister Emma Jenson, who
is a very hospitable hostess.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The general conference of the Relief
Society was held Saturday, October 3, 1903,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city.
There was an excellent representation from
the several stakes of Zion. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and all the general officers
and a majority of the board were present.
	Congregation sang, “Our God, we raise
to Thee” prayer was offered by President
Susannah P. Booth of Box Elder stake
continued by singing, “Redeemer of Is-
rael.”
	Roll call responded to by thirty-five
stakes.
	President B. W. Smith welcomed the au-
dience in a cordial manner, with a happy
greeting, it was very cheering to her to see
so many interested enough to come out on
a Saturday morning. Sister Smith felt she
would like to embrace them all, but would
be content with shaking their hands. She
said, “I love the Relief Society, we have a
great work to do if we only perform it. I
want to see the young mothers and grand-
mothers join this Society and learn from the
older ones. I love all the societies, but feel
this one to be the most important of all.
it is the oldest Society organized by the
Prophet Joseph, and what could be greater
and nobler than trying to carry out his
wishes? I think we understand our duty
fully. I trust we all try to keep the Sab-
bath day and keep the Word of Wisdom
train our children to grow up pure and vir-
tuous we want to please our Prophet and
have him meet with us. We have our
duties to perform, and one is to take the
EXPONENT, it will help us in our work, es-
pecially in our mother’s work and the
presidents must take care of this matter
and not let them go to extremes, but pre-
side over and watch this part of the work
more than anything else. It is necessary
to take good care of our families.”
	President Smith said art and science are
all right, and it is nice to take care of our
appearance, but these were not all. She
recommended reading the Book of Mor-
mon, Doctrine and Covenants and all our
Church works. I hope we will have a
good time together, that we may go home
rejoicing and try to live so that we may be
worthy of all our blessings. God bless you,
Amen.
	Counselor Sarah M. Pomeroy, Maricopa
Stake, Arizona, made an interesting report.
They could not have meetings during the
hot weather; she spoke highly of the pres-
dent, Sister Mabel A. Hakes; it was a very
rough country to travel over, but visited
all once a year the Indian sisters were very
good, had great faith, she never knew of
such faith as was manifested among the 
Laraanites they dress their children well
and fast becoming civilized; the people

[Column 2]
labor under many difficulties, but are not
discouraged.
	President Rebecca Standring, Alpine
Stake, made a most excellent report, they
have many young mothers enrolled mem-
bers, they have a granary and about four
thousand bushels of grain stored. This is
really one of the banner stakes, and Sister
Standring is a very capable president,
though only one among the many. She
closed her remarks by blessing Sister Smith
and her aids.
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, expressed her great joy at being
present and seeing so many assembled in
conference, spoke forcibly upon storing
grain and not keeping the money the So-
ciety had for that purpose in the bank
thought filling our granaries should be our
first work after looking after the sick and
the poor. Thought there was no greater
work in Zion than the work of the Relief
Society gave a statistical and financial as
well as general report of the condition of
her stake, and closed by saying, “I want to
be among the number of the true and faith-
ful in the cause of Zion.”
	Counselor Sarah Call, Bannock Stake,
and Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear Lake
Stake, Idaho President C. C. Shepherd,
Beaver, each made excellent reports of
work accomplished, conferences held, grain
and granaries; told us how they managed
the visiting and many exceedingly interest-
ing things, although they were limited to
five minutes.
	Counselor Avilda Dixon of the Big Horn
Stake (a new tract of country, stake only
organized three years), gave us some idea
of colonization over there, described the
city of white tents before the houses were
built, they had similar experiences to our
early pioneers she realized that the Lord
had blessed them abundantly and the land
for their sake, though they had been called
from different localities and came together
there to build up a stake of Zion, yet they
had become strongly attached to each other
and union and harmony prevailed. Sister
Dixon referred to their very capable and
lovable president. Sister Lucy F. Grant
she also spoke of the interest the sisters
had taken in the young boys who had
come there away from their homes to work
on the canal and the railroad.
	Sister Mary L. Morgan represented Juab
Stake by request, President Lilyus C. Page
Nebo Stake, Sister Mary A. Standiforth
Snowflake Stake, Arizona, Counselor
Annie B. Kennington Star Valley Stake,
Wyoming, Counselor Selina Phillips St.
Joseph Stake, Arizona, gave many good
items concerning their society work, condi-
tions of the people and other matters per-
taining to material progress and spiritual
growth of Zion.
	All those who spoke expressed the hope
that Sister Bathsheba, our president, would
live long to cheer us with her good words
and bright, cheerful face.
	Sister Maggie C. Hull with her beautiful
voice sang, “Save one bright crown for
me.”
	Benediction, Counselor Sarah Jane Can-
non, Salt Lake Stake, and conference ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session: A large congregation
assembled and many representatives from a
distance and a number of brethren: Presi-
dent B. W. Smith presiding, Professor C.
Thomas, Temple choir leader, and some. 
of his best singers rendered, “Oh, say what
is truth.” Prayer was offered by Zina


[Column 1]
Young Card. Singing, “Now is the voice
that nature breathes.” President Smith
announced that Sister Lizzie Smith Cart-
wright would give her lecture on

THE CHILD’S RIGHTS IN THE HOME.
	The lecture was finely given in excellent
voice and contained many helpful suggest-
ions for those who are engaged in Mother’s
work in the Relief Society. A number of
good points were brought out, and alto-
gether it showed much serious thought and
careful preparation.
	President Jane S. Richards of Weber
Stake was the first speaker after the lecture.
Sister Richards expressed herself as having
been edified by the lecture and spoke favor-
ably of the mother’s work in her own stake,
and eloquently of her great love for chil-
dren, little and big. She thought we should
never be cross to them. “The Lord is so
kindly and forgiving with us that we ought
to be forgiving with our children. The
younger the sisters can be taught these
things the better. There is no better thing
that we can do in this world, than to teach
our children to grow up good and true Lat-
ter-day Saints.” The speaker referred to
meetings in her own stake, and the exertion
she had made where a dilatory feeling had
existed in regard to holding meetings, and
the Bishop had become discouraged; she un-
dertook to help and had met with good suc-
cess in visiting as a teacher from house to
house. “Kind words from the sisters are
comforting, and are pleasing to the Lord.”
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, said
they were a band of faithful workers in that
stake, she gave some statistical and financial
figures, and mentioned specially the storing
of grain, she thought theirs was well taken
care of and was keeping good. Explained
what had been done in mothers work and
the satisfaction it had given, spoke of the
booklet published which had been very
helpful; she wanted the children to keep in
the straight and narrow path.
	President Mary E. Schofield, Union
Stake, Oregon, felt they had a small be-
ginning; the organization had only been
completed about three years- and the
branches were quite scattered: nevertheless
they had held officer’s meetings, and were
commencing the mother’s work; the sisters
met in the different homes; had not yet
stored much grain, although they lived in
a good grain country, the Bishop had ad-
vised every one over twenty-one years of
age to give a bushel of wheat; in their
stake they were mostly young sisters with-
out much experience. They had just held
a conference and were visited by Sisters
Annie Taylor Hyde and Emma S. Wood-
ruff.
	President Sarah Pope, Uintah Stake,
said they were not so far away, but it was
hard work getting there; the sisters were
helping to build meeting houses and a
Stake Tabernacle. Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff visited them this year and they had a
good time. The Relief Society has four
granaries and two meeting houses; some
of the granaries were lined with tin and the
grain screened on the top with wire to pro-
tect the grain from mice; had introduced
mother’s work; always visit each ward
once a year, and sometimes three or four
times.
	President Andrew Kimball of St. Joseph
Stake, Arizona, addressed the conference;
spoke well of the country down there, and
highly of the sisters in the Relief Society;

[Column 2]
said, “we have invited the sisters to join us
on priesthood day, all come together in the
morning in the Sunday School Union, and
at noon all the officers meet, and at 2 o’clock
we have the sisters meet with us, and there-
by they have the key to the work of the
Lord; the sisters sometimes out number the
men, after the roll call and preliminary
work, the sisters retire to other rooms and
the brethren go on with their detail work.
Our sisters are all humble and are like our
mothers, and we all love them. I am much
interested in the mother’s work, we cannot
take too much care of our sisters”
	Counselor Alice R. Woolley reported
Tooele Stake as in a very encouraging con-
dition, mother’s work had been started in
almost every branch gave some figures of
membership etc., said it was the first time
she had attended a Relief Society Conference
in seven years, as her lot had been cast in
the Hawaiian Mission. The Relief Society
on those islands is very flourishing the
sisters take great interest in their meetings
and their work. We have home-missionary
sisters there who spend almost their entire
time visiting in different districts, and many
have been brought out to the meetings,
who had not attended for years; and many
had been converted to the faith through
these missionary sisters. Our white sisters
visit all the Islands at least once a year, she
was happy and contented to labor on the
Islands the seven years she was away, and
would have gladly stayed longer had her
health permitted.
	President Lydia Rich, Morgan Stake
gave some facts and figures of the work in
that stake, said they held conferences twice
a year besides each branch was represented
once a year in Ward Conference; they had
held one meeting with the priesthood, and
realized it did them good. The Bishops
helped them look after the wheat, thought
what they had was in good condition; they
had started the lectures in Mothers’ work
and felt they would be a blessing; the So-
ciety was onward and upward in caring for
the sick and needy; she hoped we would be
mothers to those around us as well as to
our own.
	General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams
read the financial report for the year from
Oct. 1902 to Oct. 1903; Sister E. B. Wells
moved the report be accepted, seconded by
Sister Emma S. Woodruff put before the
meeting by the President and carried un-
animously.
	Counselor Annie S. Hyde addressed the
conference, she had felt quite encouraged
by the reports that had been given and es-
pecially the reports about the Mothers’
work; she hoped the young mothers would
come out and appreciate the effort that was
being made for them; she loved to hear the
reports from the far away stakes, those that
were young and struggling like the Big
Horn. She felt the sisters were getting
their reward as they go along by doing good.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, felt glad
the brethren were taking an interest in our
work; related an incident of her experience
in meeting with strangers on the train, who
had questioned her concerning Salt Lake,
the Temple and our organizations, and were
perfectly surprised to hear about the great
number of women engaged in our organiza-
tions. Sister Dusenberry spoke particu-
larly of the duties of the teachers, and
thought there was no more important posi-
tion in the society than that of teacher; she
had been much grieved to hear from one
stake of a sister, who had suffered want un-

[Column 3]
known to her society, and she wondered
where the teacher was who could have given
the needed comfort. “If the teacher does
her duty she will keep in touch with the
sisters around her and will enter into a
knowledge of their conditions, through her
sympathetic nature, and be the means of
doing good in her calling.
	President B W. Smith felt we had en-
joyed a splendid conference; she had felt
diffident about her position when she was
called to preside, because she felt her work
was in the Temple, but she sent her miss-
ionaries out to represent her in the different
stakes, she rejoiced in the work and felt we
had listened to many good reports in this
conference, her blessing was with the sist-
ers who were laboring zealously in this great
work.
	The Secretary Sister E, B. Wells made
some annoucemeuts of meetings, etc.
	President Emma S. Woodruff of Granite
Stake, gave a concise statistical and finan-
cial report of the stake and among other
items stated that the society had paid over
four hundred dollars to the stake house.
Meetings are held regularly every two
weeks and once a month with the presidency
of the stake. Two sisters from each ward
are called to work in the Temple every
week, they also send sister missionaries
from one ward to another; and to visit those
residing in the vicinity who are not of our
faith.
	Lovely singing “The End of the Way”
by Sister Maggie C. Hull, Professor Thomas
and other singers joining in the chorus.
Meeting adjourned until 7.30 in the evening.
Benediction by President Andrew Kimball.

	At the close of the afternoon conference
an informal meeting was held by the general
superintendent of nurses Emma A. Empey
and the instructor, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
An excellent talk by superintendent Empey,
and definite instruction given by Dr. Rob
erts, also remarks by the secretary and trea-
surer, Phebe Young Beatie, in which she
spoke particularly of the origin of the nur-
ses class etc., and what she realized it had
meant to the students and the communities
who had the benefit of this practical train-
ing for the sick room.

	Evening session of the conference com-
menced at 7.30, President B. W. Smith pre-
siding. “Guide us O, thou great Jehovah,”
Prayer by President Ann C. Woodbury of
St. George Stake, singing, “O, Jesus the
Giver.”
	Counselor Rebecca Eames, Cache stake,
made a favorable report of conditions and of
active work; the Mother’s work had been
started and they felt it was bringing out
some of the young mothers.
	President A. C. Steele, Bingham Stake,
Idaho—This is a very large stake, seven
hundred miles to travel, mostly by team, in
visiting the society branches; about two-
thirds of the branches have good substan-
tial granaries; mother’s work has been in-
troduced, and when Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and
Sister Lydia D. Alder came to our confer-
ence, they gave us good instructions on this
and other subjects.
	President Maria B. Hyde, Pocatello
Stake, Idaho, had been very recently ap-
pointed to the position, and this was her
first experience in reporting the stake, felt
the work was very new to her, knew they
had some good workers, thought if the
teachers would do their duty that great
benefits would ensue; they had taken up


the mother’s work, but realized that they
must not lose sight of the charitable work,
for which the organization was formed.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, gave some statistics, and an idea
of distances that they had to travel—one
thousand miles—in visiting the Stake; once
a year they go all the way around; the peo-
ple are scattered and have many hardships
to contend with, but they are striving with
all their might to do right; the men have
to word very hard and the sisters have to
help them. Many families do not raise 
their bread and the young men have to go
away, and there are many inconveniencies;
they are building a canal, and if the water
can be brought on the land, it will become
fruitful; they are willing to work and the
Lord has blessed them.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Fre-
mont Stake, Idaho—We visit around the
stake twice a year, all do their duty, have 
officers meetings once a month, have not
yet started the mother’s work, have held
back until they could get proper instruction;
felt that we had been blessed in this confer-
ence, and that a good spirit had prevailed.
	Sister Zina Young Card reported for Can-
ada. The officers there hold meetings every
Quarterly Conference; they find the mother’s
work a drawing card for the young mother’s
and they are seeking to make the best of
it, recently had a visit from Sisters Dusen-
berry and Little, which was fully apprecia-
ted, she felt the sisters were doing the best
they could in a new country; they had two
granaries and are endeavoring to save some
more grain this year. They have not sent
any nurses to study, the laws up there make
it difficult to do some of those things. The 
EXPONENT was not very broadly taken, but
they intend having more copies, as the sis-
ters cannot get along without it. There had
never been a ripple in the Stake Board,
have avoided all discord and worked to-
gether in the greatest harmony, the sisters
respond cheerfully to every call and help
one another. Sister Card said: I never ex-
pect to report Alberta Stake again, as we 
have moved to Cache Valley, but I hope
the sisters will continue to be united and
increase in good works.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made a
few remarks and gave the sisters from a
distance liberty to ask questions if they so
desired. The subjects of storing wheat,
woman’s building and mother’s work were
the principal topics, the President explain-
ing and giving such informaticn as seemed
needful, and speaking words of comfort and
of cheer to the sisters, and blessing them
with peace and love. The Secretary gave
notice of the annual business meeting of 
the society, to be held in that hall, Monday,
October 5, at 4:30 p. m.
	Congregation sang “Redeemer of Israel”
and conference adjourned six months, un-
til April, 1901. Elder C. J. Thomas pro-
nounced the benediction.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
		Secretary pro tem.,
	E. B. WELLS,
		Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			MOTHERS' WORK.
			EMERY STAKE.
"Woman rocks the cradle of the world.—ELLA
WILLIAMS.
First Talk.— Woman.
	“She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in
her tongue is the law of kindness.
	“Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a

[Column 2]
woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.
“Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her
own works praise her in the gates.”—Proverbs,
Chapter 31.
I.—Her Sphere and Mission.
	(a) In ancient times how was she
appreciated?
	(b) The modern changes.
	(c) As wage earner.
	(d) To be a mother to her children
and companion to her husband.
	(f) God’s commandment to Adam
and Eve. (Gen., 1st Chap., 28th
verse; also Gen., 3rd chapter, 16th
verse.)
Preparation for Her Life's Work.
	(a) How to keep well.
	(b) Need of sympathy.
	(c) Dreams of youth.
	(d) Decision and independence of
character.
	(e) Pure hearts and a virtuous life.
Advantages of Proper character Butlding.
	(a) Confidence in parents.
	(b) Direct the girls’ purpose.
	(c) Self reliance.
	(d) Choice of companions.
	(e) Sunny temper.
	(f) What reading will do.
	(g) Perils of skepticism.
	(h) Religious views essential to a
life’s companion.
	(i) Leaving home.
	(j) How to be beautiful.
	(k) Manners and dress.
Prepared by MARIA ALLEN.
Second Talk.—The Wife. 
	(a) Man’s helpmate.
	(b) Religiously.
	(c) Intellectually.
	(d) Economically.
	(e) Her rights, duties and influence-
	(f) Influence of wives in former
times. (Ref. “Women of the Bible,”)
Third Talk.—Parenthood.
	(a) Effects of parental influences.
	(b) Example.
	(c) How to control children and
how to become acquainted with them.
	(d) Parents should train, but should
not change the child’s individuality.
By RUTH MCKEE.
Fourth Talk.—Motherhood.
	(a) Motherhood provides the earthly
pleasure and eternal happiness. (Ref.
