			Vol. 32		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1903		No. 4


CONTENTS.
Simplicity.....................................E. R. Snow	25
In Memoriam..................................................	26
Report from Tooele Stake.....Lillian Gillespie	26
Notes...............................................................	26
The Baby............................................J. Q. C.	27
The Leaves Are Falling...................Aunt Em.	27
Notes and News..............................................	27
History of the Relief Society........E  B. Wells	29
Mothers’ Work................................................	39
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.......................Lillie Freeze	31
R. S. Reports...................................................	32

EDITORIAL—Relief Society Conference.....	28
	Zion is Growing......................................	28
	Editorial Notes........................................	28
	D. R. Society...........................................	29 

POETRY—Bathsheba W. Smith....................
		.........................Emmeline B. Wells	25
	The Conflict.........Addie Hurd Richards	27


BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
THE ELECT LADY.
I know thee well, thy sterling worth,
And thy pure heart, so free from guile,
Thy rich inheritance of birth,
Thy girlish fancies, as erstwhile
Thy youthful days fled on apace,
Giving thee symmetry and grace.

And riding over hill and dale
Mounted on horseback, bridle free,
Facing the storms of wind and gale,
Thus gaining health and energy—
To brave life's battles, and to be
Fitted for thy great destiny,

The Gospel came to thee in youth,
And thou wert ready to receive
The welcome tidings of the truth,
And in those principles believe.
Which to a Prophet had been given,
Reveal’d through messengers from heav'n.

A youthful lover came to woo
The fair young Bathsheba for wife,
A faithful man, honest and true,
One to be trusted throughout life;
Soon plighted vows were interchanged.
And wedding nuptials were arranged.

Two souls who lov’d each other well,
United truly, heart and hand,
To found a home wherein to dwell.
Where love should rule, the one command,
Together ever, come what may,
To journey on along life’s way.

Sweet were the hours at eventide
When labor o’er, the day’s work done,
They sat together side by side
And planned the future for each one,
That might be given to them here,
The children, they might have to rear.

In peace the years sped swiftly by.
Though many changes with them came;
Travels and journeyings; thereby
A rich experience and honor’d name,
A life replete with happiness,
Treading the path of righteousness

I would this story I might give
In verse befitting such a theme.
That through the ages it might live
A synonym of “love’s young dream,”
Fulfilled in part while dwelling here,
To finish in another sphere.

I saw her when a fair young bride,
Again with baby in her arms,
The happy father at her side,
Her face all radiant with charms,
That mother-love makes fairer, still—
Than aught beside, say what you will.


And now in ripest womanhood
	We see the glory in her face,
Which proves how bravely she withstood
	All trials with becoming grace, 
Known only to a Saint of God,
	Who’s pass’d beneath the chast’ning rod.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
			SIMPLICITY.
		TO THE SAINTS IN ZION.
	We are said to be creatures of habit. We
certainly are so to a great extent. We are
all, more or less, stamped with the same
dye of education combined with the circum-
stances of early life, which constitute our
individual cast; by which we are fitted by
certain opinions and prejudices, and bound
to certain habits and customs, until we real-
ly become sterotyped in practice.
	When we enter the school of Jesus Christ
the sooner we can divest ourselves, or be-
come divested of traditional cast—the soon-
er we throw off the stereotyped edition of
ourselves, and like a plain proof-sheet, hold
ourselves subject to correction in all things,
and like little children be ever ready to re-
ceive and adopt whatever tends to improve-
ment, the greater will be our attainment to-
wards that point which the Savior enjoined
on His disciples, saying, “Be ye therefore
perfect, even as your Father in heaven is
perfect.” To this end we need to culti-
vate that truthful simplicity which like a
clear sunbeam affords an extension of vis-
ion far, far surpassing the utmost stretch of
all the telescopes of that ostentatious form-
ality, which clothes the affectation of great-
ness with which the world abounds; while
simplicity exhibits the burnished gem, with
all its native lustre and brilliancy un-
diminished, yet improved by the sculp-
lor’s art. This feature was beautifnlly il-
tustrated in the character of Jesus Christ
during his life upon the earth. His origi-
nal worth and self-possessed dignity re-
quired no artificial support. Sensible of His
own superiority and greatness, and for the
time being, satisfied to be what He was, He
spared Himself the trouble of endeavoring
to make everybody understand and ac-
knowledge it. The life of Joseph Smith,
also, was a striking illustration of the
beauty of simplicity, as all will testify who
had the honor of his personal acquaintance.
	But we are under no necessity of refer-
ring to those who once lived; we have
plenty of living examples, both of male and
female, and they are in our midst, for the
greatest and the best on earth are here, the
opinion of the world to the contrary not-
withstanding.  For instance, is there a
greater than Brigham Young? Is there
one on whom rests a broader fold of im-
perial dignity, as recognized by the upper
nobility? (By the way we do not consult
the opinion of the lower courts.) And is
there a more striking example of plainness
and simplicity? Does not this very sim-
plicity in him, beget love and admiration in
the hearts of this people?
	I always feel to shrink from the cold
formality—that heartless affectation of dig-
nity, where thought and feeling and every

[Column 2]
native charm, are hid beneath the cum-
brous appendages of the so called etiquette
of fashionable life. It seems too much like
penetrating beneath, or unwinding the
sixty-four thicknesses of envelop to find
the Egyptian mummy; and when you find
it, you only find a stiff, dried up, lifeless
substance, at which every feeling would re-
volt to recognize as the representative of
once breathing, noble humanity. True
dignity is self supported, and real greatness
is never straining for its own exhibition. It
certainly is desirable to be divested of that
kind of tall importance which requires con-
stant propping and splicing to sustain its
position. That is too expensive, it will not
pay its own passage. I think it must be
one of those things that “perish with the
using.”
	Ever delighted with the beauties of na-
ture, I like to see nature cultivated and im-
proved but not obliterated—however ele-
vated and refined, let nature be nature still
in every department, both in the produc-
tions of the earth and in the vast varieties
exhibited throughout animate and inani-
mate existence.
	I love simplicity. I like things to seem
what they are and be what they seem. I
love the artless exhibition of unaffected
childhood; and regard simplicity in a child,
not as a frightful exuberance—a something
peculiar to, and only to be tolerated in the
infantile season, which, like the transient
verdure of spring, must disappear before
the summer solstice and give place to more
substantial productions; but as an inherent
attribute of real goodness, that should be
tenderly cherished—a plant that should be
cultivated for all eternity, and constitute a
prominent characteristic in every season of
life. If we are pleased with its charms in
childhood, it calls forth our admiration when
delineated in manhood; for when does great-
ness appear so truly great as when clothed
with the mantle of simplicity?
	We happen to be situated at the farther-
est, lowest extremity of things, called degen-
racy; and with all the boasted light and
knowledge of the age, the human family is
blind and ignorant with regard to genuine
worth and true greatness. They call good
evil and evil good; and I would ask what
of all substances on earth is more subject
to idiotic metamorphosing and artificial
mummyfying, than that of the human kind?
We suffer our tongue to play the truant
with our thoughts—our bodies to be weak-
ened and disfigured by the arbitrary power
of degenerating, corrupt Babylonish fash-
ions—our health destroyed and our lives
shortened through a silly and guilty per-
version of dietic observances. The laws of
nature are set at defiance, while wisdom
and simplicity are laughed to scorn, and
common sense looked out of countenance.
We all have been and still are trammeled
with these mockeries of life. Yes, here in 
Zion we are affectionately hugging to our
bosom the prepossessions of Gentile tui-
tion, caressing the customs of the past,
which  have been instrumental in lessening
the tide of human life to its lowest ebb, and


[Column 1]
at the same time claiming, as we really are,
to be standing on the very threshhold of
the dispensation of the fulness of times and
actually living in the Era of the regenera-
tion.
	As members of the Church of Jesus Christ
we each have high responsibilities resting
upon us; and surely quite as much dili-
gence and faithfulness are requisite in Zion
as in Babylon—if we needed a large amount
of moral courage to stand forth amid the
scoffs and sympathies of the world, and of
our unbelieving kindred, to espouse the
Gospel of Christ; we certainly shall require
no less to fulfill all its requirements in the
midst of those who are called Saints for
remember “all are not Israel that are of
Israel.” In order to attain to a fulness of
promised blessings, we must be found faith-
ful, as well as to have been called and
chosen.
	In speaking of those of the middle age,
the Savior said, “All the blood that has
been shed from the time of righteous Abel,”
etc. “will I require at the hand of this gen-
eration.” Why? Simply because the re-
sponsibility of saving, or in other words, of
doing the work for all the dead, from the
days of Adam down to that time, rested up-
on those to whom the Gospel was pro-
claimed. If such were their responsibili-
ties, what must be ours, who are called to
lay the foundation of the new order of
things, after the pattern of heaven—to
sound the requiem of Gentile policies, with
all their incongruities and tendencies to
evil, and of every principle of disorganiza-
tion and degeneracy; to establish or at least
to assist in introducing such customs and
principles as shall place an eternal veto on
the downward course of human existence;
and cause the tides thereof, both physically
and mentally to flow upward, until man-
kind in their generations upon the earth,
become immortal.
	We do not yet see eye to eye in all things
—a difference in judgment with regard to
right and wrong in many instances, will
exist among those who embrace the truth
through the love of it, until our under-
standings, being stripped of the fripperies
of the past are equally enlightened by the
power of the wisdom of God. This calls
for long suffering and forbearance towards
each other. But do we not, too often, suffer
our judgments to be biased by reflections
from the opaque order of things with which
our feelings have been associated? We do
not like variations from the beaten track,
and sooner than pass the trying ordeal of
change ourselves—sooner than stem the
tide of fashionable folly—sooner than stoop
to conquer the degenerating power of cus-
tom, we tamely transmit to succeeding
generations the evils which we endure; and
leave for them to accomplish what we
should do ourselves.
	My dear sisters in Zion—to you I speak—
Shall it be thus? Let us all—let us as in-
dividuals realize that a portion of this great
responsibility, however small that portion
may be, is resting on us. Let us ever dare
to do right, and in doing right, not be afraid
or ashamed to do. What is true greatness ?
In human character, usefulness constitutes
greatness. I mean in Zion. In the estima-
tion of holy intelligences, the most useful
character or person is the greatest. The
Savior said, “He that is greatest among
you, let him be servant of all,” or in other
words he is servant of all. “The glory of
God is His works.” Usefulness is great-

[Column 2]
ness. The tallest dignity—the most perfect
and beautiful elegance, and the most lofty
sublimity are combined and associated with
the greatest simplicity.
	This is a day of restitution, and when
that heavenly simplicity which character-
zed the ancient worthies, those who asso-
ciated with angels and conversed with the
Most High, is restored, the Saints of the
last days will freely participate in the same
blessings.
	This is a laboring dispensation and we
are instrumental in benefiting others—in
transmitting to succeeding generations,
those principles and those practices which
tend to save and exalt; in the same propor-
tion shall we be crowned with glory and
exaltation in the courts of Eternity.
					E. R. SNOW.
	June 1, 1877.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM
			ELIZA ANN ALLRED.
	It becomes our sad duty to record the death of
another beloved sister, who departed this life Sat-
urday, April 11, 1903.
	Eliza Ann Allred was the beloved wife of Joseph
G. Allred of the High Council of this stake and a
daughter of the late President Layton and his wife,
Sarah Martin Layton. She was born in a wagon
near the mouth of the Humbolt River, May 28,
1856, while her mother was filling a call to Carson
City, Nevada. She has always been a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and filled many positions of
honor and trust in this stake of Zion, being a teach- 
er in the Sunday School and treasurer in the stake
Relief Society. She leaves a devoted husband,
two sons and two daughters to mourn her loss.
Her eldest son, Christopher A. Allred, is now in
New Zealand, where he has been for three years
on a mission.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
remove our dear sister and take her to a higher
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we mourn her loss as a faithful
worker in the cause of truth, and that we desire to
emulate her earnest labors.
	That we tender our sympathy to her bereaved
husband, family and relatives in their sorrow, and
pray our Heavenly Father to let the comforting in-
fluence of His Holy Spirit be with them in their
bereavement.
	That we place a copy of this memento in our
stake record, to send one to the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT, and one to the bereaved family.
						OLIVE KIMBALL,
						ALICE BEEBE,
						S. T. FOLEY,
THATCHER, ARIZ.,					Committee.

		MARY STUBBS HINDLEY.
“Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord.”

“Like weary and worn-out children, that sigh for
	the daylight’s close,
He knows that they oft are sighing, for home and
	its sweet repose;
So he calls them in from their labors, ere the shad-
	ows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved ones sleep.”

	The subject of this sketch, Sister Mary S. Hind-
ley, was born in Middewich, Cheshire, England,
December 14, 1818, and died at her home in
American Fork, May 20, 1903, in her eighty-fifth
year.
	Sister Hindley was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in January,
1848, and with her husband emigrated to Amer-
ca in 1850, and in 1853 came across the plains
with ox-teams, and in December of the same year
settled in American Fork, which was her home
until her death.
	She was chosen president of the Relief Society
of American Fork at its first organization in Octo-
ber, 1868, which position she filled with credit and
efficiency; and in fact she possessed unusual exec-
utive ability in managing affairs.
	In the spring of 1895, in consequence of ad-
vanced years and failing health, she resigned her
position as president, after twenty-seven years of

[Column 2]
faithful, energetic and conscientious labor. In that
position she extended help and succor with a lib-
eral hand yet was ever mindful of the true objects
of the society, and thus gained the love and esteem
of those with whom she was thus associated. Her
unswerving integrity and strict sense of justice,
with her fidelity to those with whom she labored
will cause her to be ever remembered with love
and respect by her colaborers. One eminent trait
in her character was her devotion to the principles
of celestial marriage, and though having no chil-
dren of her own, yet she cherished with the most
tender love the children of her fellow-wives. In
all, her noble character and good deeds are worthy
of emulation by all those who like her are laboring
in the interests of the Gospel. One pleasing attri-
bute of her character was her large hospitality,
she loved to have her friends in her home and to
entertain them liberally. Sister Eliza R. Snow
greatly admired Sister Hindley, and with her and
with Sister Zina D. H. Young the writer of these
last few lines has spent many happy hours in Sis-
ter Hindley’s company. She deserves a tribute of
praise for her zeal in advancing the interests of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT. She was one who ap-
preciated blessings, a woman of prayer. She has
gone to meet the husband of her youth, who has
waited these many years, and to receive the re-
ward of those who are purified through suffering.

	“There endless is the pleasure,
		There countless is the gain,
	Past all degree and measure,
		Reward shall comfort pain.”


REPORT FROM TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of conference held in Tooele,
June 11, 1903, President Emily J. Ander-
son presiding. After the usual opening ex-
ercises, business, etc., the president ad-
dressed the sisters, reported the condition
of the stake and spoke of introducing the
Mothers’ Work.
	Sisters reported as follows: Mary A.
House, Grantsville; Mary Ann Atkins, the
three branches in Tooele; the Clover branch
was also reported; Louise Shields, Lake
View. There being no representative pres-
ent from the other wards, Sister Frederika
Nelson spoke very interestingly, and also
Sister Naomi Gillette.
	In the afternoon conference Sister Yates,
of E. T. City reported first and Sister Judd,
of Grantsville made a brief address upon
the Mothers’ Work.
	Sisters Jane D. Brown, Mary A. House,
Jeannette Spears, Mary A. Atkin, R. Alice
McBride, Lillias Smith, Lillian Gillespie
and Ann Lee each spoke upon the work of
the Relief Sooiety.
	The president made a few closing re-
marks, assured the sisters that the more
they labored in the work, the more inter-
ested they would become. She felt the
stake was in good condition and had been
satisfied with the conference.
	Conference adjourned to meet in Grants-
ville, October, 1903.
LILLIAN GILLESPIE, Cor. Sec.


NOTES.
	The World's W. C. T. U. has reelected
Lady Henry Somerset president, and also
reelected all its other general officers.
	Wellesley Radcliff, Vassar, Mt. Holyoke,
and all the colleges for women, as well as
the multitude of coeducational Universities,
are holding their commencements, and
sending out their graduates to do good
work in the world. With every year that
passes, their number grows, and it becomes
more and more of an anachronism, that
these thousands of highly educated young
women should continue to be classed poli-
tically with minors and insane persons.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE CONFLICT.
The question we are bent upon solving,
Is the question of right or of wrong;
In this age that we deem progressive[-]
We wait not for story or song;
But we plunge in the midst of life’s battles[-]
With hearts that are earnest and true,
And look up to God to direct us,
In the work we are given to do.

The work? To defend our hearthstones,
From a foeman both subtle and bold;
Who is armed with the shield of deception,
The banner of pleasure unfolds;
Whose fortress is strong and whose batteries
Are masked with such cunning and skill,
We know not the death-dealing volley,
He can pour in our homes at his will.

This foeman so crafty and cunning
Is taking from out our fair land,
From the ranks of our sons and our brothers,
The bravest and best of the land.
He is breaking the heart of the mothers,
He is silvering the brown hair with white,
And pitying angels are grieving,
With sad-hearted mothers tonight.

From wives he has taken the husbands,
From children he’s taken the bread;
And sisters bereft of their brothers,
And fathers to infamy led.
And this demon with greed still insatiate.
Takes from woman her honor and fame;
Takes all that would make life a blessing,
And leaves her but ruin and shame.

Would you know the name of this foeman,
Who seeks all our best to destroy;
This vampire that feeds on the life-blood,
That kills every hope, every joy;
This minion of Satan who serves him
With energy, purpose and will?
’Tis the rum-king, whose haunts are the dram-
	shops.
Who was cradled and nursed in the still.

For years he has ravished the people,
Denounced all the good and the true;
And the blood of brave Haddock is calling,
For vengeance that justly is due.
Our martyrs, brave Haddock and Gambrel,
Who fell in the midst of the fight.
To defend our fair land from dishonor,
Are sleeping in silence tonight.

But up from the homes have arisen
An army, demanding the right;
A band of brave, true, noble women,
Whose badge is the ribbon of white.
Before them the monster shall perish
As sure as stars shine in the skies;
As sure as God reigneth in heaven,
From the death grapple truth shall arise.
ABBI[-] HURD RICHARDS.


THE BABY.
	What a vast expanse of unfolded possi-
bilities is contained within that newly-
fledged atom of humanity, the baby! The
arrival of it is an event whose importance
is not one whit reduced because of its famil-
iarity; each and every occurrence possesses
a significance which neither frequency can
abate nor changing scenes obliterate. A
new being takes its place among those who
hold sway upon the earth, another star ap-
pears in the firmament of mortality, one
more creature comes within our sphere
without jostling any of the others, any
setting another aside or displacing the
smallest portion of our social system.
Sweetest of all animate existence, degraded
is the soul, debased the mind, or debauched
the habits of him who does not extend to
you a glad greeting and recognize that in
his better and truer self he has one more
subject claiming, and worthy to claim, his
respect, his confidence, his protection if
need be!
	We love the baby and at all times we bid
it a hearty welcome. With its hues of pink
and carnation and roses, its eyes bespeaking
the tenderness just brought from a shore
we cannot recall even in dreams, its voice


so plaintive as to defy rudeness, and its
whole presence so like the embodiment and
eternal fitness of things superanimate—the
angels themselves—how purifying is the
presence and how sacred the influence
which its presence implies!
	“Suffer little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not.”
							J. Q. C.


[Column 1]
	THE LEAVES ARE FALLING.
	The falling of the leaves has a tendency
to impress us with serious thoughts, to re-
mind us that all things decay, that life it-
self is full of changes and that we are our-
selves only hastening on to that season
when “we shall fade as the leaf;” but not-
withstanding all the significance of the
Autumn and the falling leaves, one who rev-
els in the beauties of nature must admire
and enjoy this glorious season, though the
woods do grow “brown and sere.”
	It is the sentiment the Autumn carries
with it, too, that speaks in language unmis-
takable to the susceptible soul of those
things that beautify as well as typify hu-
man life. Aside from animal life there is
nothing more human than the trees; they
speak in all languages, they sing, they
whisper, they dance and play, and flirt and
coquette, and array themselves gaily, gor-
geously at times as though conscious of
power, and when their leaves are falling
they moan as though in mortal agony; the
wind is the music to which they keep time,
discordant often, but could the wind play
as it does, could it make such music if there
were no trees, no leaves to flaunt and flirt
about? And even when they have fallen,
and lie like a heavy carpet upon the ground,
the savage wind routs them about again
hither and thither at will.
	The poet tells us that the falling of the
leaves brings regrets for the beauties and
joys that are past and passing away from
us. It is good to be reminded of the sweet-
ness we only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of
sadness mingles with it—the deeper it will
sink into our hearts and lives, and the more
telling will be the lesson it will teach. We
all need reminding of the “sunny hours”
that pass all too quickly, and if we had no
shadows, no contrast, but were always
basking in light and sunshine we should
not even know it was the perfection of
beauty; what would we know of daybreak
if there was no night? Would we rejoice as
we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious
morning if we had not felt the shadows and
the darkness? Certainly not; we can all
answer—and would we have the splendor
of the gorgeous sunsets, were it not that
day is departing and night coming on? And
if it were always summer, we should not
drink in as we do the resplendent glories of
the Autumn.
	The Autumnal tints of the foliage are
beyond the art of the painter: the hills are
literally crowned with the purple glory,
shaded with a mantle of beauty like Joseph’s
“coat of many colors.” We gaze and ad-
mire and look again in wonder and amaze-
ment, and we try to carry in our hearts and
interpret in our lives the language con-
veyed to our souls, by the beauties of the
hills, the fields, the trees, the woods, the
trailing vines—and we cannot grasp it
all, but little by little we are learning to in-
terpret in our weak way, the wondrous
things that pass human wisdom and under-
standing.
	Possibly there is no season of the year so

[Column 2]
rich in the lessons it teaches as the fall—the
death of the flowers, the falling of the
leaves, the mournful sighing of the wind,
all these are like sorrows, and warn us that
we too are frail and may soon be touched
by the frosts of time, and pass away, that
we too must finally die; and yet these things
teach us we shall live again, for every
flower and tree and bulb and vine contains
the germ of life within that shall spring
forth again in all its pristine beauty accord-
ing to its time and season. Really we
know so little and we pay little heed to
that which admonishes us of our weakness,
nor do we consider as we should wherein
lies our strength. There is no season of
the year, no day nor night, nor anything
that God has planned but contains lessons
of beauty of wisdom and of truth that
would make us nobler, better, more loving
and tender if we would study as we should
the application it bears to the human side
of our lives upon the earth. This is a
beautiful world, and filling our lives up
with beautiful deeds, and shedding around
us the fragrance of loving words and hap-
py smiles, will do much to beautify the
paths of others who have not had so much
of sweetness mingled in the cup of life
given them to drink. Speak of the beauti-
ful and true, keep these before you, make
these your guides and talisman and the
touch of enchantment will be yours to gild
the lives of your friends and associates.
						AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Sarah Rumley, mother of the late
Walter Q. Gresham, Secretary of State
under President Cleveland, celebrated her
101st birthday at New Albany, Ind., Sept.
5, in the same house to which she came a
bride more than seventy-six years ago. A
fine dinner was spread for nearly one hund-
red guests, all Mrs. Rumley’s relatives.
Despite her great age, Mrs Rumley is active
and vigorous. One year ago she prepared a
fine birthday dinner unaided for a number
of guests.
	It is time the old fallacy of woman’s in-
ferior physical ability was abandoned. Miss
Annie S. Peck, an American woman, has
just ascended the highest mountain peak in
the Western hemisphere, a feat which had
baffled all previous explorers. A letter dated
La Pas, Bolivia, states that while her com-
panion, Prof. W. G. Tight, of the University
of New Mexico, was somewhat the worse
for an ascent of 14,666 feet in 30 hours,
Miss Peck had experienced only a slight
headache. This is an illustration of the
surprising power of endurance displayed by
apparently slight and delicate women. If
our girls are too often invalids, the fact is
due to want of proper conditions and a lack
of wholesome food, fresh air, exercise, and
muscular development.
	Mrs. D. York Syme has set a good ex-
ample to other women with large reception
rooms in initiating a series of “Political
Teas,” with the object of educating women
on current politics and the use they may
make of the Federal vote, says the Austra-
lian Woman’s Sphere of Melbourne. The
first tea was given on July 27, when about
150 women were present. Mrs. Evelyn
Gough presided, and the meeting was ad-
dressed by Senators Glassey and Staniforth
Smith.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1903


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city, Saturday,
October 3, 1903, meetings commencing at
10 a. m. and 2 p. m. It is desired that
each stake organization should be repre-
sented by the president or an authorized
representative. There will be an officers’
meeting in the evening in the same build-
ing at 7 p. m. sharp.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
			ANNIE T. HYDE,
			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.
					Counselors.


[Column 1]
		ZION IS GROWING.
	The October Conference will soon be
here and one wonders what the showing
will be in the way of progress and develop-
ment among the Saints along the lines of
temporal growth and spiritual culture, and
what rapid strides have been made during
the past six months with the vigorous efforts
that have been put forth in missionary
endeavors at home and abroad. When we
hear that presidents of missions are arriv-
ing from all points north, south, east and
west, one naturally infers there has been
something accomplished that is worth bring-
ing account of to headquarters, and natur-
ally one, who is eager to see Zion prosper
hopes the tidings from these places brought
by these Elders is of good import. We
who dwell in Salt Lake are aware that the
information Bureau has been doing a rush-
ing business in diffusing knowledge of our
people and the Latter-day work generally,
and the thousands of strangers who have
registered there and have taken away our
literature, must at least have been more or
less enlightened upon the subject of Mor-
monism and the Mormons.
	After all, what have we who are so zeal-
ous for the work abroad and anxious to con-
vert the world, been doing towards our own
betterment here in Zion with all the super-
ior advantages and opportunities given to
make upliftment.
	What have we accomplished in our or-
organizations as women of Zion?
	We are making history every day, will it
be creditable in the summing up?
	In the Relief Society have we something
to tell of our labors during the last six
months? There has been considerable
visiting done by the missionary sisters and
such instruction as they were able and

[Column 2]
qualified to give has, we trust, been pro
ductive of a little good, and we hope to
hear at the coming conference how it has
been received, and what has been done
temporally in various localities in the line
of progress in raising of means, building,
and saving of grain for future need.
	The Mothers’ Work, which had been
started during this year has, we hope been
instrumental, not only educationally in
awakening thought, but in an increase of
membership in this very important organ-
ization.
	In some respects the Mother’s Work is
experimental and it has seemed a little dif-
ficult to bring it in with perfect harmony,
but it will perhaps convince some of the
sisters, who think there is very little talent
in their local society, that there is not such
a scarcity of good material as they had im-
agined, and that it only wants bringing out
and developing. The Gospel itself is self-
educating.
	To do a little of one’s own thinking is
very helpful and stimulating to the mind,
and it is true, gainsay it who may, that we
have among our people excellent material
for true story-telling. The thrilling, inci-
dents of this people’s history from the time
when Joseph the Prophet, only a boy, first
received the ministration of angels and holy
beings, the persecutions and marvelous de-
liverances from the power of his enemies
and the blessings vouchsafed to him from
time to time are positive proofs of the asser-
tion. Perils and escapes of the Elders in
their travels by sea and by land, are all rich
with interest and might be utilized in teach-
ing the young to great advantage; promot-
ing faith and confidence in the Lord, and
in testimony of His divine hand in the
restoration of the Gospel in the last days.
It seems more than strange to hear people
say “Where shall I find something interest-
ing to talk about or write about?” Dear
sisters, the best material you could possibly
have from which to obtain a full supply is at
hand in the every-day lives of the Latter-
day Saints.
	It has become the fashion in this day to
look for something new and wonderful, but
that which has been tried and proven, and
stood the test of time, is after all the stand-
ard. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, Church
History and Church literature have not yet
grown too old for use, nor are our young
people quite familiar with all contained in
these sacred books. Certainly not with the
history of individual people who have
helped to establish the great Latter-day
work, nor even of the most famous exigen-
cies and occurrences through which this
peculiar people have passed in days gone
by, nor of the countries from which they
have been gathered.
	We turn with great pride, some of us, to
the history of the Pilgrim fathers and their
wonderful achievements, and in many re-
spects the history of this people is a parallel;
yet because it is so familiar, in a sense, to
our children they do not estimate what has
been done at its full value, nor can they,
seemingly, appreciate the work, the service
of those who penetrated into these moun-
tain wilds and founded for the coming gen-
erations this great commonwealth.
	These are problems yet unsolved by them
that many seem to esteem of little conse-
quence, but it has taken strength of char-
acter and physical energy and endurance,
vigor of mind and intellect such as the ris-
ing generation know little about, to colon-
ize and make habitable the great American

[Column 3]
desert. It was not done with wealth, but
with the courage energy and hard work of
men and of women who knew no such word
as failure, and who, with mighty faith,
were determined to conquer the adverse
elements and overcome obstacles, to make
homes to dwell in, where they might live in
peace and worship God without fear or
molestation from their enemies.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A new book of prose and poetry will soon
be issued from the press, by Louisa L.
Greene Richards, the well-known writer,
a regular contributor to the Juvenile Instruc-
tor and occasionally to other periodicals
The title of the work is “Branches that
Run over the Wall,” derived from a lengthy
poem (contained in the volume) paraphrased
from the forepart of the Book of Mormon.
Elder George Reynolds and President
Anthon H. Lund have both spoken highly
of this particular poem. A prospectus of
the book has already been issued with the
view of giving friends the opportunity of
subscribing for the book in advance. The
price is one dollar per copy.
	The editor of this paper earnestly re-
quests that all complaints concerning the
paper be made to her, either personally or
by letter, so that the missionary sisters or
others may not be troubled with them, as
the Relief Society is in no way responsible
for any mistakes, or neglect in the manage-
ment of the editorial business or mailing
department. Out of kindness the sisters
who visit the conferences speak for the in-
crease of the circulation of the paper, because
it is the one paper that stands for the Relief
Society and publishes in its interest news,
minutes, history, deaths of prominent so-
ciety workers and important matters con-
cerning them, also sketches of the lives of
distinguished pioneers, etc., which consti-
tutes it the official organ and it is positively
necessary to those engaged in this depart-
ment of the work of the Church.
	The Relief Society in Cannon Ward of
this stake was reorganized Thursday, Au-
gust 6, 1903. The meeting was held in the
home of Sister S. J. Cannon, Bishop Lewis
T. Cannon and Counselor Gold officiating.
President M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt
Lake Stake, and her counselors were pres-
sent, also General President Bathsheba
W. Smith, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
General Secretary E. B. Wells. A goodly
number of the local society were in attend-
ance. Sister Rebecca Sharp was chosen
president, to fill the vacancy caused by the
recent death of Sister Caroline Y. Cannon,
and Sister A. J. Cannon and Ellen W. Sil-
ver were chosen counselors. Martha T.
Cannon was retained as secretary, and Sis-
ter Emma Hall was elected treasurer.
These sisters were set apart by Bishop Can-
non and Counselor Gold. After the meet-
ing adjourned dainty refreshments were
served to all present at the meeting.
	The Daughters of the Utah Pioneers held
their first meeting of the season at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears at Water-
loo, Thursday, Sep. 24, 1903, President
Alice Merrill Horne in the chair, assisted
by her counselor, at whose home the society
convened. The program was carried out
as had been arranged. The meeting was
very interesting, the address of Mrs. Eliza-
beth Nebeker, who related incidents of the
visit of Joseph Smith the Prophet, when


he was at their home in Chester Co., Penn-
sylvania, at the time of his return from his
trip to Washington to call upon the Presi-
dent of the United States. She was then a
little girl about nine years old, but the im-
pression he made upon her was so strong
that she remembers it vividly to this day
and she graphically described it so that all
present were able to make a picture of it in
their minds. It is another instance now on
record of the Prophet’s sweet, gentle nature
with children. Mrs. Minnie Loveland
Snow gave her readings, which were highly
appreciated and deserve special mention;
the articles were evidently prepared with
thought and certainly well written. Miss
Hazel Smoot Taylor, of Provo, sang, with
spirit the hymns of Zion, sublimely
in her sweet-toned voice, and the Daugh-
ters are very grateful to her, and also Miss
Clarissa Dougall who accompanied her on
the piano. The spirit of the meeting was
characteristic of the subjects treated upon
and the object of the society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


D. R. SOCIETY.
	The Daughters of the Revolution held
the first meeting after the summer vacation
on Thursday, September 16, 1903, at the
residence of the Regent, Isabel M. W. Sears,
at Waterloo. The parlors were beautifully
decorated with the stars and stripes and
the fac simile of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence being conspicuously hung in the
hall, with George and Martha Washing-
ton, Abraham Lincoln and other celebrities.
Vases of nasturtiums and trailing vines and
lovely roses were delightfully pleasing.
	The new Regent, Mrs. Sears, in the chair.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
and the new secretary, Mrs. Lucy W.
Woodruff read the minutes and a number
of letters, some business was transacted.
	The Utah Society D. R. had purchased
eight copies of the fac simile of the Declar-
tion of Independence for some of the higher
institutions of learning in Utah and the re-
port made at the meeting was that a copy
had been sent, (framed already for hanging)
to the Utah University, East and West
Side High School, Latter-day Saints Uni-
versity, Brigham Young Academy (Provo)
Brigham Young College, (Logan) Agricul-
tural College, (Logan.)
	A letter was also sent to the president of
each institution, written by the Regent in
behalf of the society. The letter was read
by the secretary.

			COPY OF LETTER.
	The Utah State Society Daughters of the Revo-
lution take pleasure in presenting to ————
school a fac simile of the original Declaration of
Independence. It is requested that it be hung in
a prominent place that the scholars of this and suc-
ceeding generations on seeing it will be reminded
that the history of “life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness,” of which we are so justly proud, was
bequeathed to us by ancestors staunch, courageous,
who cheerfully faced privations, imprisonment and
death that we, their posterity, might enjoy the
blessings of freedom. May we ever prove our
appreciation of their patroiotism by good and
loyal citizenship and show, if the need arise, that
we, too, are ready to do or die for our glorious
Star Spangled Banner.
	ISABEL M. WHITNEY SEARS, Regent.
	FLORENCE SCHOLES SEARS, Cor. Sec.
						Utah Society D. R.
	In the absence of the topic, “Abagail
Adams,” by Mrs. Emily Cannon Willey,
of Washington, D. C., (which had not
reached the meeting) readings of Mrs.
Adams’ life were given by Mrs. Lucy W.


Smith and Mrs. E. B. Wells; and Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne read some of the let-
ters written to her husband that were ex-
ceedingly interesting, portraying vividly
the strength of character of this eminently
brilliant woman, and setting forth the senti-
ment of that thrilling revolutionary period.
	Two national patriotic poems were read
by Mrs. Carol Y. Cannon and Miss M.
Mabelle Snow, and the meeting adjourned
to meet October 16, 1903, at the residence
of Mrs. E. S. R. Wright, 155, 157 N. West
Temple St. Dismissed with prayer by
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall.
	After adjournment refreshments were
served and a delighful hour passed in social
conversation.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			(Continued.)
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Another important matter in connection
with the Relief Society work counseled by
President Brigham Young was the storing
of grain by the sisters. By his express wish
the writer of this history prepared an edi-
torial on this subject and submitted to him
for revision. President Young approved
what had been written and added another 
paragraph, which reads as follows:

	President Young further advises the sisters that
 they enter into such arrangements as are applic-
able to their circumstances in their various dis-
tricts and settlements, to build storehouses for the
storing of their grain in the sections of country as
they shall divide off, or apportion to certain local-
ities; also that they solicit donations from their hus-
bands and the brethren to assist them in carrying
out this enterprise, both for the building of the
storehouses and also in obtaining grain to fill
them and preserve it for future need.

	This part of the editorial was written at
his dictation. It was published in this
paper, October 15, 1876, and the entire edi-
torial has been republished twice since.
Perhaps this counsel caused as much talk
pro and con as any advice ever given to the
sisters in regard to their labors. This
counsel was given previous to any stake
organization of the Relief Society. In the
suggestions made to the editor President
Young said this:

	The Relief Society and co-operative organiza-
tions in which some of the women of this territory
are interested have funds at their disposal from
time to time which may be made available in this
work, and it is no doubt the best investment of
means that could be made. If the prophecies of
the ancient and modern prophets and of Joseph
Smith are to be fulfilled, which the Saints profess
to believe, there will be a desolating famine in the
land, and if the women of this territory will heark-
en to counsel it will be the temporal salvation of
this people in case of emergency.

	On November 11, 1876, just after the
counsel had been given at the General Re-
trenchment Association meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward assembly rooms in this
city the subject of arrangements in regard
to the grain question was brought before
the sisters. Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was
presiding in the absence of President M.
Isabella Horne, proposed that the officers
of the several organizations of the Relief
Society act in the capacity of a committee
to collect means to buy and store up grain;
that besides these committees of separate
branches, in order to facilitate the work,
there should also be a central committee for
counsel and reference, to take cognizance
of all these grain matters, that there might
be perfect order and a united movement for

[Column 2]
the good of all interested. She read a 
communication from Bishop R. W. Burton
in respect to storing grain in the General
Tithing Office. The different wards that
have not established storehouses can store
their grain there, but will be expected to
attend to the arrangement themselves, as
the hands employed there have no spare
time.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow proposed to the as-
sembly, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells as chair-
man of the central committee, the motion
being made, it was seconded and carried
unanimously. It was then moved that
the chairman choose a committee of two to
act with her in this capacity constituting
the Central Committee; accordingly Miss
Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith were selected and the unanimous
vote of the assembly given to sustain them.
	The sense of the meeting was that the
Central Committee would be expected to be
posted in regard to the proceedings of the
different ward committees, as also of the ar-
rangements of the country places, that there
may be a concert of action, which will give
power and strength to this unparalleled
movement and complete system of manage-
ment.
	Following out the suggestion and this
arrangement of committees some important
work was soon done in this direction, of
which we shall have occasion to speak later
on in this history.
	President Young spent the following
winter in St. George and from there sent
at Christmas time, this dispatch:
		ST. GEORGE, Dec. 24, 1876.

To my Family and Friends at Salt Lake and
		Elsewhere:
	The compliments of the season, wishing you all
a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. May
you live to accomplish the work given you to do of
our Heavenly Father, and I pray you may do it
faithfully, that you may be prepared to dwell
eternally in the heavens. May God grant it.
Amen.
				BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	In looking up items of history we find a
letter from St. George dated January 2,
1878, written to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
by our dearly beloved Susa, daughter of
President Young, from which we wish to 
make a few extracts for this history.
	“Yesterday (Jan. 1) the Temple in this
city, or a portion of it, was dedicated; doors
were opened at 12 o’clock m., and closed a 
quarter to one.” After mentioning the
throng of people that had gathered, the
president’s arrival and also Apostle Wilford
Woodruff and Erastus Snow and the doors
were closed, she makes special mention of
the congregation singing the hymn, “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning,” and
the prayer by Apostle Wilford Woodruff in
which he besought the Lord’s blessing upon
the Relief Society throughout the world and
also upon all the sisters who had contri-
buted in any way to the building of the
Temple. Sister Susa says in her letter
that this was a most impressive prayer;
She also mentioned other prayers that were
offered and the powerful discourse of Presi-
dent Young on that great occasion which
those present will never forget. This was the
first temple built in the valley of the Rocky
Mountains and the sisters assisted in var-
ious ways, more especially those located in
that place and the southern settlements.
	To give an idea of the work being done
in the country places about this time we
will take an item from Huntsville dated


March 3, 1877. “The society numbers one
hundred and fifty members and but very
few poor in our midst. Funds on hand
amounting to $285.00, a few head of sheep,
shares in the co-operative store, $140.00 and
in the Relief Society store in Ogden City,
$38.00. We have committees appointed
to buy wheat and store it, to be used in
the future for the benefit of the Saints, ac-
cording to the counsel which may be given
through the prophet of God upon the earth.
Both old and young seem to take great in
terest in attending our meetings regularly
and in gaining useful knowledge pertaining
to our religion. The EXPONENT is very
much appreciated, etc.” Mary J. Ham-
mond was president at that time and Mary
Hall secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK. 
		MALAD STAKE.

Lecture I.— Woman Know Thyself:

		(a) Necessity of studying well your
	own character before undertaking re-
	sponsibilities of wife and mother. (Ref.
