				Vol. 32	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1903	No. 2


CONTENTS.
A Beautiful Thought.....................E. B. Wells	9
The Past and Present...............Delila Gardner	9
Obituary..........................................................	10
In Memoriam....................................E. B. W.	11
Notes and News..............................................	11
Mothers’ Work................................................	13
Birthday Anniversary.....May Booth Talmage	15
Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting.....A Wardrop	15
R. S. Reports...................................................	15
EDITORIAL—Pioneer Park..........................	12
	Pope Leo XIII.........................................	12
	Relief Society Nurses’ Class...................	13
	Relief Society Reunion...........................	13
POETRY—Angels Unawares.A. T. Crocheron	9
	Faith..........................Emmeline B.Wells	11


ANGELS UNAWARES.
I was all alone, and a bright Welsh lad
Had come the chores to do,
After the sun had sunk from sight,
And his own day's work was through;
For my own dear ones were far away
As duty had bade them go;
One in the far off city's streets,
And one by the Jordan's flow;
And so, I lighted the evening lamp
And set forth our evening fare,
And all unconscious, I set the plates
For my boys who had been there.
"My!" said the bright Welsh lad to me,
"Angels are coming tonight!
You've set four plates, and we're only two,
Let the wind blow! we're all right."

Then Ithought: Perhaps in the fairy lore,
We had learned in the Old Country,
There might be truth, and cheerful felt
Fo such goodly company.
And I thought: Let our converse be tonight,
Such themes that our guests will stay;
Their gentle presence inspire our dreams,
And guard us, 'till mornings ray.
I wondered, too, whom those guests might
	be;
O, parents and sister dear,
Could I know 'twere you, how sweet the
	night
Though the wind blow cold and drear.
But though it were kindred or angel sent
To view and report the scene,
Or for some guardian purpose meant—
'Twas a blessed thing, I ween

And today my heart has sung a song
Of gratitude, faith and love,
(Believing the omen) and hope that oft
They will come from their homes above,
Whether my table is set for them,
Or whoever may be here—
O, blessed ones come! Henceforth I wait
With a welcoming sincere.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Erda, Sep. 24, 1903.


[Column 1]
ABEAUT FUL THOUGHT.
OLD LADIES' ANNUAL PARTY.
	For ten consecutive years Mrs. Frank J.
Cannon of Ogden (wife of ex-Senator Frank
J. Cannon, popularly known in and about
Washington, D. C.) has given a party dur-
ing the summer season to the "Grandmas"
of Ogden City. She devotes herself to their
entertainment during the entire day, sends
carriages to bring them to her hospitable

[Column 2]
home, and when the day is over and they
wish to return, looks after each individual
to see that they are properly cared for and
driven home again. It really is a beautiful
thing and Mrs. Cannon deserves the bless-
ings these dear old ladies shower up-
on her, with their prayers and good
wishes. The dinner prepared for them is
as good and tastefully arranged as if they
were the finest guests in the land, and they
are waited upon by Mrs. Cannon's charm-
ing daughters and young relatives and
friends with the most careful attention to
every want expressed, or anticipated.
	The young ladies play and sing for them
and the old ladies sing and recite and have
a most enjoyable time.
	Perhaps the most distinguished guest
present on the occasion this year, Thursday,
June 25, was Mrs. Jane S. Richards who,
although she has reached four score years,
is still young in spirit and mentally and
physically capable of managing the busi-
ness affairs of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion, as well as looking
after the moral and spiritual interests of
those over whom she presides. Her voice
and appearance are like those of a young
woman; she spoke a few words of greeting
and appreciation to the company on the
day of this unique gathering.
	Sister Ann E. Browning, a veteran in
the Church and a strong type of the En-
glish character, aged seventy-three, gave
two recitations entitled "Maria in Heaven"
and "A Woman's Question."
	Another sister, whose name I do not now
recall, gave "His Mother's Sermon," from
"The Bonnie Brier Bush."
	Sister Isabella Wilson recited a poem,
"Joseph Smith, the Prophet."
	Brief speeches were made, significant of
the honor shown to the aged and the times
in which we live, by Sister Cannon, mother
of the Senator, and Sister E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City. Hon. Frank J. Cannon
made an eloquent address, very complimen-
tary to the aunties and grandmothers, who
were much gratified to be thus remembered
and honored.
	Indeed it was a happy day for all and
one never to be forgotten by those who
participated in its pleasures Ice cream,
cake and other delicacies were served to all
before parting, and then came the good
byes, which bring the thought, "When
shall we all meet again?"
	The ladies present whose names we re-
call, were Sister Mary Black, 87 years, who
heads the list; Sisters Jane S. Richards,
and Elizabeth P. Davis, of Salt Lake City;
Elizabeth Kingsford, Ruth M. Larson,
Emma Wright, Eliza Barlow, Mary Butler,
Charlotte Leavitt, Olive Ann Farr, Rachel
Porter, Ann E. Browning, Hannah Batley,
Ann Martin, Harriet Stringam, Isabella
Neilson, Sarah West, Catharine Horrocks,
Emma Melvin, Henrietta Lamont, Eliza-
beth Greenwall, Mary Ann Odell, Phebe
Jane Bingham, Harriet C. Brown, Mary
Hiller, Sarah Jane Packard; these are
among the older sisters; younger sisters,
although most of them are grandma's, were
Martha H. Brown, Charlotte E. Driver,

[Column 3]
Maria S. Stevens, Sarah J. Cannon, Har-
riet E. Woodmansee, Eliza T. Cannon,
Emily L. Shurtliff, Belle Thompson, and
Miss Rose Canfield and the young ladies
who sung for the party and waited upon
them. The writer was also present and de-
sires to say she enjoyed the society of these
dear sisters at Mrs Cannon's party, which
is not only a beautiful thought, but delight-
ful in its practical development.
E. B. WELLS.


THE PAST AND PRESENT.
MARINDA BATEMAN.

	We will now let our minds travel back to
a time almost fifty years ago when there
were no people or houses south of Salt
Lake City, but we travel along and come
to Gardner's mill, down near the banks of
the notable Jordan river, and when we see
a mill we naturally know there is a miller
and by inquiry we find there is a miller
here and that he has a rosy-cheeked daugh-
ter. She is not like the girls of the present
with their fancy embroidery and fine
laces, but is taught to card and spin, to
cook, wash and iron and everything that
will help to clothe and feed the numerous
family of the miller, but she looks just as
winning to a tall, dark-complexioned youth
who wears jeans pants and linsey over-shirt
and his hair oiled sleek, roached in front
and turned under at the end--who comes
wooing the miller's daughter and it ends in
a marriage. She becomes a farmer's bride
and they start in life together while young,
with empty hands but willing hearts.
	Years glide by, children come to them,
with plenty of work. She is chosen president
of the Relief Society, her husband is called to
the Muddy on a mission, she is released to 
accompany him. The mission falls through,
they are released, she does not go but still
goes along in her quiet way. Trials come,
sometimes smiles, sometimes tears, years
pass and with them come changes. She is
again chosen president of a Relief Society
which she fills with honor until January 21,
1900, she is chosen Stake president and the
present shows us the tall farmer and the
miller's daughter, not so young, but just as
smiling and happy, still true to each other
and their God, and we would venture to
wager, if the Relief Society board had not
forbidden us gambling or raffling or any-
thing of the kind, now that she is fifty-five 
years of age, if you would bring her the old-
fashioned spinning wheel she could spin a
broach or reel her knots and make a skein
of yarn and color her madder, logwood and
blue-dye in the same old way and be proud
of it, too. And may her numerous family
rise up and call her blessed and be proud to
own the miller's daughter for their mother.
May she live long to counsel her sisters and 
help to take care of the sick and the afflicted.
	We forgot to add that she is known all
over the Stake, for the children say she 
brings awful nice things to mama in her
little satchel.
	HILDA LARSEN.
	Years ago in dear old Sweden there was


[Column 1]

born a sweet little Swedish "Flicka." She
like all of her people was raised to work
and be industrious and self-sustaining.
	She joined the Church in an early day,
came to Utah a young and blushing maiden
and captivated the heart of one of our best
citizens. They were married and settled
here in this lovely city in which we have
met today. For twenty years she took ac-
count of all the nickels and dimes and each
bar of soap and yard of calico received by
the Relief Society of Sandy, for she held the
exalted office of secretary. She was chosen
counselor to Sister Bateman in the Stake,
January 21, 1900, which office we know
she will fill with honor. We know she has
always been found, tried and true and we
hope to see her good-natured face smiling
among us as the years and days go by and
we would just give her a word of advice,
if she don't be a pretty good girl she had
better, for we know there is one of the
High Council always has his eye on her.
AGNES CUTLER.
	Away back in Scotland there was born
one day a dear little Scotch lassie. When
quite small her parents joined the Church
and like many others gathered to Zion and
settled in Salt Lake City. She, like our
president, learned the fine art of spinning
and coloring, and her joyous laugh rang
out as she spun the skeins of yarn to help
to make the beautiful flannel and linsey
ball and reception dresses that were worn
at that time.
	The lassie, when she was very young,
decided that she would choose an occupa-
tion, and she went into the Cutlery business
and settled on the beautiful banks of the
Jordan. Life to her was not all summer
and the bitter was mixed with the sweet,
but she was always cheerful; her com-
panion was taken and she was alone.
	After awhile she chose another trade, she
became a Cooper. For various reasons this
proved a failure and she went back to the
Cutlery business. Twice she has been
chosen president of the Relief Society and
she has filled the position with honor. She
was chosen counselor in the Stake January
21, 1900, and as the years go by may we
always have our Scotch lassie to cheer and
comfort us, and may the Cutlers and Coop-
ers increase and the Jordan Stake honor
and appreciate her worth, and we know she
can always spin us a good yarn if she hasn't
her spinning wheel.
ELIZABETH GARDNER.
	We will not go back so far now, but only
to a time when a merry little girl came to
gladden the home of one of the pioneer
families of the historic town of dear old
West Jordan. She came, grew, went to
school, played, romped and had a merry
time until she thought it time to settle
down and one of our handsome Utah boys
came along and she chose her trade and she
has been a Gardner ever since; she also
was chosen our Stake secretary on January
21, 1900, and she has written minutes,
called rolls and puzzled her brain since
then; she too has had her joys and sorrows, 
but as a mother and grandmother, old
father time has dealt lightly with her and
we see her today apparently smiling and
happy, and may she still continue to be our
secretary until her hair is gray and her eyes
are dim with years. 
EMILY WHITE.
	We remember a long time ago seeing a

[Column 2]

 tall, slender, sweet young English girl
come from Salt Lake City to West Jordan
on a visit to relatives and with her a neatly
dressed young man. After awhile we heard
that the Mills had turned White and after
awhile we heard there were some more 
White Mills and that they had all moved
to the illustrious city of Sandy, where we
hear of her from time to time, always as-
sociated with good works and kind deeds
in the Primary Association and in acts of
charity, and like the rest there has been
many sad pages in her life, but may she al-
ways find joy and comfort in keeping in the
path of her duty, and may the love and re-
spect of her children be her crowning joy.
She was chosen assistant secretary of the
Stake, which position she now holds.
AGNES CUSHING.
	Not so very long ago, judging from the
sweet and youthful face smiling before us,
there was born in the town of historical
Draper a little girl who lived, played and
went to school as the most of our girls do
until she became of an age to choose for
herself. Although her pathway may not
always have been strewn with roses we
know that we can say with truthfulness,
she has always, ever since she has chosen,
had a nice cushion to lean upon. She holds
the reponsible position of treasurer, and we
haven't heard of her being over-burdened
yet with cash, but may she live long and
have strength given her to carry every bur-
den she may have placed upon her shoul-
ders, and may her pleasant face always be 
found among the Relief Society workers.
And as she adds the small cushions to her
store already on hand, may they prove a
blessing and a comfort to her. Bu, hon-
estly, we don't care how heavy the Relief
Society bags may become. 
ARAMINTA E. EGBERT.

	We remember the rosy-cheeked, happy
girl in the good old childhood days, when
she used to climb trees, hunt hens and birds 
eggs and romp and play, in school one of
the gayest of the gay, and a sad tease to
her teachers Her lot, too, was cast on
the bonnie banks of the Jordan. Time
changes all things, and in time a suitor
came, and she thought "It is not good for
man to live alone," so she gave her heart
and hand to our worthy Bishop. We don't
think she has taken any more bird's eggs,
but we know she has taken care of Egberts
ever since.
	We appreciate her worth and feel glad
she was chosen Relief Society aid. May
she still live a life of usefulness and be as
she has always been, a true friend to the
poor and needy, and be a comfort in time of
sorrow and trouble. And may all her little
Egberts find a warm nest in her heart, and
we will see that she takes good care of our 
Bishop. 
ELIZABETH DAY.
	Away back in merrie England, once up-
on a time, a little girl came to gladden her 
parent's hearts.
	Her parents joined the Church, then there
was the gathering to Zion, and the long,
weary journey with ox teams across the plains.
	She, too, came to Draper. After a time
she began to think that there was one Day
that was better than all the rest, and as the
days passed by, she chose to be the second
Day, and has been ever since. She has led

[Column 3]

a life of usefulness and has filled many
faithful positions and has been loved and 
respected by neighbors and friends. She,
too, is Relief Society aid, and may her life
be spared and as her Days increase may she
always find comfort and joy.
LEAH DAY FITZGERALD.
	Some time back in the early 50's, there
was born, in the beautiful city of Draper,
to a family of our worthy pioneers, a sweet
little girl whom they called Leah. She,
like all the rest of "Utah's best crop," was
free and easy and led a useful and helpful
life and was a joy and comfort to her friends.
	When she became a blushing maiden
there came a tall schoolmaster a wooing,
which soon terminated in a wedding, and as
there was no Rachel in the family, there
were no disappointments, and we never
heard that he worked seven years for his
Leah, and we don't know as the "big
schoolmaster" ever turned night into day,
but we do know one thing that he did turn
one Day into a Fitzgerald, but be that as
it may, we know she is an aid in our Relief
Society board. And may she be, as she al-
ways has been, true and faithful and take
good care of the school teacher. If she
don't we will report her to one of the stake
presidency.

	These are our Relief Society board, judge
them for yourselves, and may they live 
long and be happy and united and have
many reunions, especially if they will give
us plenty of good things to eat and drink.
DELILA GARDNER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY. 
AT REST. 
Sister Eliza B. Schutt passed away on the 30th 
day of May, 1903. She was born in Hull, York-
shire, England. March 26, 1837. She came to 
Stirling about four years ago and was a faithful 
Latter-day Saint. 
Sister Shutt was chosen as second counselor to 
Sister Miller in the Relief Society of Stirling, 
Alberta, Canada, and was a faithful worker in 
every respect. She was one of those choice, brave, 
beautiful spirits who was ever ready to assist in 
building up the kingdom of God, and making 
peace everywhere. We all feel to mourn her loss, 
as there were few like her. She was so kind to 
every one, and her life was one of usefulness. If 
there was ever any one in trouble she was the first 
to go and help, cheer and comfort, helping to make 
the burden as light as possible. 
Those who watched over her in her last sickness 
say she suffered as few do. She was so brave to 
the end, never flinched from the severe pain which 
she was called upon to pass through, but was very 
kind and considerate to those around her. In her 
greatest agony she called her family to her bedside 
and with all firmness and meekness to our Father in 
heaven, blessed them with a mother's blessing 
never to be forgotten. 
She was full of faith to the last; the testimony 
of all who knew her is that her life was one of un-
swerving fidelity to God; that there was never any 
doubt in her mind regarding the Church and king
dom of God. 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
Whereas our Heavenly Father has called her to 
a higher sphere, and we will miss her as a wise 
counselor, 
Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the 
bereaved daughters and cherish her memory and 
emulate her works of benevolence and charity. 
Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be 
sent to her daughters, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication and be placed upon the records of 
Stirling Ward Relief Society. 
LUCINDA MILLER, 
MARY E. HARDY, 
JANET FADDIES, 
Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAITH.
Lord give us faith to trust in Thee,
Whatever sorrows may betide:
Attune our hearts in unity,
That in Thy love we may abide.

Strengthen our faith, that we may live
According to Thy sacred word;
Thy Holy Spirit freely give
We pray Thee, O most gracious Lord.

O, may we seek for light divine
To shine upon our onward way;
Make us, O Lord, more truly Thine,
Renew our courage day by day.

Help us to consecrate to Thee,
Our time, our talents, all our wealth; 
Make of our efforts harmony,
And give us joy, and peace and health.

However dark the days may be,
Though storms are fierce, and rude the
blast,
O, give Thy Saints the victory,
Through faith to overcome at last.

A wondrous power the Saints possess,
Who seek for wisdom from on high,
Proclaiming truth and righteousness,
Whatever dangers may be nigh.

Lord give us mighty Faith to stand
Valiant for Zion, and for Thee,
Till Right shall rule in all the land, 
And Peace abound from sea to sea. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS. 
July 23, 1903.


[Column 1] 
IN MEMORIAM. 
CAROLINE YOUNG CANNON.
"A mother's love--how sweet the name!
What is a mother's love?
A noble, pure and tender flame,
Enkindled from above."
	There is no love like the love of a mother,
ask the wisest and best of men, or women
either; the one memory that lives of all
childhood's hours, is the memory of the
tender, patient, long-suffering, untiring
mother. It gives men faith in womankind
and trust in all things noble and high.
"Youth fades; love droops; the leaves of friendship
fall,
A mother's hope and love outlives them all."
	An ideal mother was Mrs. Cannon, tender
and yet not over indulgent, her heart was
in her home and she was by birth and cir-
cumstance a Latter-day Saint, believing in
all the principles, revealed through Joseph 
Smith, the prophet, in these Latter-days
for the salvation and exaltation of the hu-
man family. 
	Mrs. Caroline Young Cannon was the 
daughter of President Brigham Young and
of his wife, Emily D. Partridge Young.
The grandparents on the maternal side
were among the first who embraced the 
Gospel in the early days of the Church;
her grandfather, Bishop Edward Partridge,
was the first Presiding Bishop of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Bishop
Partridge was a Massachusetts man, born 
raised in the Berkshire hills; his wife
was also of the same good old Puritan
stock, and the fact is well known that
President Brigham Young's family were
also Puritans, his father, John Young, a 
revolutionary soldier. 
	Caroline Young was the second daughter
and third child of Brother Brigham and
Sister Emily Young, and was born in this
city, February 1, 1851, in one of the humble
homes of those early days, on the corner 
where the Alta Club now stands.
	Sister Caroline Cannon had the best of 
d
[Column 2]
she, like her noble mother, was valiant for 
the truth, possessed of sterling integrity
and steadfastness in the principles of truth 
and right But she has gone from this
sphere of usefulness; called home when
everything seemed hopeful and promising
for a future in which she would see her
younger children grow to manhood and
womanhood under her protecting care and
wise guardianship.
	Sister Cannon was the mother of twelve
children and has nine now living, five sons
and four daughters, one son and three
daughters married, seven grandchildren.
	One son and two daughters died in their 
infancy and no doubt she has joined them
ere this, never more to be separated, these, 
with her husband, father, mother and a 
host of loved ones gone before, we can and
do believe welcomed her on the golden
shore where there is life forevermore.
	A wife and mother has much to do in the
care of a home and rearing a family, but
there comes in most woman's lives a time
when she feels to take hold of some of the
duties outside the home, and because of 
these the home life itself is often broadened
and made better. Sister Cannon arrived at
that period, and though reluctant to come
before the public, she was willing to take
part in doing, if not in speaking. She was 
a charter member of the Utah State Society
of the Daughters of the Revolution, and
enjoyed the meetings very much, she had
given one or two very able and instructive
papers on patriotic subjects. Her loss will 
be deeply felt in the ranks of the D. R., as 
she was counted one who always bore her
part in whatever there was to do.
	In August, 1901, when the president of
the Relief Society of Cannon Ward re-
signed, having been called to fill a position
in the Stake Board, Sister Caroline V. Can-
non was elected president, and has been
very successful and efficient in this active,
benevolent and charitable work. Sister
Cannon has entertained much in her home, 
especially during the last ten years, and 
has been an admirable hostess. The
Daughters of the Revolution met in her
home for their Thanksgiving meeting last
November, and she has more than once
entertained the Relief Society of the ward
and these have been occasions of more than 
ordinary interest. 
	Sister Cannon was also a charter member
of the Daughters of the Pioneers, an organ-
ization now in its third year and one that
gives promise of being of great historical
value to the State of Utah.
	But we shall see her no more in our
gatherings, she has gone from our sight,
yet we shall cherish her image in our 
hearts. 
"Though lost to sight to memory dear."
	Of her youthful days much might be
said. She was one of the girls in Presi-
dent Young's family that were designated
"The Big Ten," at the time when the
famous "Lion House" was full of life and
cheerfulness and beautiful girls and fine
young men, sons and daughters of that re-
nowned man among men, Brigham Young.
	Sister Caroline Young Cannon departed
this life, Thursday, July 2, 1903, at ten
minutes to one o'clock p. m. Her death
was primarily the result of rheumatism and
secondarily of ulceration of the throat
which had seriously affected vital parts of
her body.
	Her demise was not unlooked for towards
the last of her illness, she had made a brave
[Column 3]
fight for life, and mighty faith had been
exercised in her behalf, but when all failed
the dearest of her loved ones, young and
tender, tried to be reconciled to the inevit-
able.
"They are gathering homeward from every land,
	One by one. 
As their weary feet touch the shining strand,
	One by one, 
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white garments they rest on the
mead,
Where the Lamb doth love His chosen to lead,
	One by one."
	The funeral services were held on Sun-
day, July 5, at her own residence; the
sweetest flowers were banked here and
there in all available places, and there were
many exquisite floral designs, gifts of lov-
ing friends and of members of the family.
	The services were conducted by Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon. Vocal music by a male
quartette was inspiring and yet sweetly sad. 
President Joseph F. Smith and his counsel-
ors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund,
were present, also Apostle John Henry
Smith, Rudger Clawson and President Sey-
mour B. Young, of the Seven Presidents of
Seventies, and other Church dignitaries.
The remarks of the several speakers were 
comforting and encouraging to those bowed
down with the terrible loss of one so near
and dear.
	The pall bearers were her brothers, sons
of President Young, except one, her nephew
Richard W. Young. She was literally
buried in flowers.
	"So He giveth His beloved sleep."
Dear Carlie, she was greatly beloved
by her many friends. She possessed an at-
tractive personality, and drew about her a
circle of friends who admired her many
sterling qualities of head and heart. But 
we who realize something about a future
state, know, if we are faithful, we shall
meet her again in that beautiful home
where sin or death cannot enter.
	"We, too, shall come to the riverside,
	One by one,
	We are nearer its waters each eventide,
	One by one."
		E. B. W.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
Lady Glentworth is the only centenarian
in the British peerage. Her hundredth 
birthday, celebrated recently, found her in 
good health and in possession of all her 
faculties. She still manages her own 
estate at Marham in Norfolk, every detail 
coming under her personal cognizance, and 
her papers are signed in a firm, clear hand. 
In a gracefully worded letter of thanks 
to Andrew Carnegie, Queen Wilhelmina 
expresses her appreciation of the princely 
gift for the establishment of a palace and 
library worthy of the Court of Arbitration. 
She says: "May the Palace of Peace, which 
will owe its existence to your munificence, 
remain throughout time the imposing 
symbol of the humane endeavor to solve 
the differences between nations by peaceful 
means. Your contributing so largely to-
wards the realization of this end is a noble
deed, which I and my people appreciate the 
more highly because an international decree 
having placed the seat of the Court of 
Arbitration in this country, the Nether-
lands considers itself the guardian of the 
idea of peace which it was the aim of the 
Hague Conference to see fulfilled." --Ex


12 WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
Woman's Exponent. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher. 
Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts. 
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel 
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple 
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every 
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1903


[Column 1] 
PIONEER PARK.

It is gratifying to the old settlers in this
city to have had the historic Pioneer Square
thrown open to the public, on Pioneer day
of this year, as a place for recreation and
restfulness, to those who choose to take ad-
vantage of it, but it will at present be most
beneficial to the people in that vicinity.
The park was really dedicated July 24,
1898, but there have been so many opposing
schemes, and attempts to use it for financial
benefit that it seemed almost as if the dedi-
cation had been set aside, or lost sight of, in
the pressure brought about to make it a
depot or thoroughfare of some sort.
It is ardently hoped and desired by those
who value the historic points of interest
that this pioneer park may be made beauti-
ful, and that something may be erected
there to tell the story of this famous spot
of earth, to the children of the future, a
story of the struggles of the pioneers who
founded Utah.
Many of the descendants of the men and
women who came to the Great Salt Lake in
those early days do not in the least realize
what their parents endured in settling this
desert land. If there is one spot that will
mark the heroism and strength of character
of that valiant band of men and women
who spent the first winter in the Fort, it
ought to be made beautiful and attractive, a
place of interest. There are but few people
today who lived in the Fort during that
eventful period and in a few years more
there will not be any, and it would be
lamentable not to leave that one square as
a memento of the time and the events that
transpired then that were of such a marvel-
ous nature.
The story of the thrilling account of the
gulls is one that can never fail to show the
miraculous intervention of Providence and
the mighty faith of the heroic band. The
Harvest Home on August 10, 1848, as de-
scribed in story by our sisters who partici-
pated therein, is worthy of being commem-
orated in song, to be set to music and
handed down to be sung by their posterity
to the latest generation of time.
The Daughters of the Pioneers, who are
collecting and preserving everything pos-
sible of that period, will, we trust, some of
them, see that these things are made object
lessons for the benefit of the people of the
State. They have already planned much
work creditable to the cause, but if some-
thing really tangible could be erected on
the memorable square, if it was only a
fountain or a monument to these pioneer
women whose names we venerate, or to the

[Column 2]
women who lived within the Fort before
the city was laid out and the homes built,
it would be an achievement worthy the
daughters of that noble sisterhood. Some
permanent structure that would be useful
as well as ornamental and historical,
that could be accomplished by the contri-
butions of a large number of the real des-
cendants of the pioneers, not alone of ’47,
but to the limit stated in their Constitution.
This is merely a thought, but could it be
made a practical matter of fact it would
give the Daughters of the Pioneers a great-
er prestige than anything the writer can
think of, because it would stand as a monu-
ment to perpetuate the fortitude and endur-
ance of these wise and sagacious women
who were willing to make the sacrifice of
leaving their homes, their worldy sur-
roundings, everything near and dear, for
the sake of their religion, which was more
to them than life itself.
How the Lord has blessed and prospered
them, and the land for their sake, and how
wonderful in the eyes of all nations has
been the transformation from the desert to
the beautiful cities, towns and villages,
farms, orchards and gardens, none know so
well as those who came in that early time
and lived among the sage brush in the alkali
desert.


[column 1]
	POPE LEO XIII.

	The last few days previous to the death
of the Pope newspapers were full of ac-
counts concerning the Pope’s condition,
but now he has gone, and the great struggle
for life which he fought so courageously is
over, and we hear on all sides encomiums
of praise and commendation of his long
and eventful career of usefulness and per-
severing habits, of industry and labor for
the good of the church in which he de-
voutly believed, and for which he would
make any sacrifice possible, that it might
obtain strength and influence in and for the
world of mankind.
	There can be no doubt of his superiority
of ability and intellect and he had the
grandest opportunities possible to any man
—let him be king or potentate.
	What he has written would fill volumes,
would be a library in itself. It is doubtful
if there will ever be another pontiff so cele-
brated and so greatly beloved and honored.
He was certainly one of the greatest and
grandest men of the nineteenth century.
History must record with gratitude and
pride the splendid character and attain-
ments of this hero of the Catholic Church,
who has labored to elevate mankind, to
bless humanity, to bring peace to the world.
How strong he was in the right as he
viewed it, how valiant for righteousness!
How beautifully and unostentatiously he
modified the wrongs he grieved to see per-
petrated! Surely the world is better for
such a man. Lowell says:

“Great truths are portions of the soul of man; 
Great souls are portions of eternity.”

	He will be sincerely mourned although
he had far outlived his contemporaries.
	Great men like him are indeed models
for nations. His vast storehouse of learn-
ing was used for the benefit of the people
in whose interest and for whose advance-
ment he sought diligently.
	Pope Leo made friends by his kindly
manner, his courteous bearing; he im-
pressed all whom he met with his strong

[column 2]
personality, though he lived the simple 
life of an ascetic. His power for actual
work was most extraordinary and aston-
ished all who were aware of what he really
accomplished. He had wonderful diplo-
ma tic and administrative ability, and was
therefore admirably fitted for the high posi-
tion he occupied so many years.
	Pope Leo was born March 2, 1810, at
Carpineto. His name was Joachim Vin-
cent Raphael Lodovico Pecci, he was the
son of Count Domenico Lodovico Pecci and
of Anna Prosperco Boazi, she was the
daughter of a noble Valscian family living
in the ancient city of Cora, a woman of ex-
traordinary ability and strength of char-
acter. She belonged to the Third Order
of St. Francis, an association founded to
bring men and women closer to the Church.
He was fairly nurtured in the heart of the
Catholic faith and accustomed to listen to
the story of the life of St. Francis Assissi as
related by his mother.
	After receiving many honors, in his
thirty-third year Gregory XVI appointed
him apostolic nuncio or papal ambassador
to the kingdom of Belgium. He soon
found favor with King Leopold and it was
at this time that he showed such wonderful
shrewdness and tact, particularly in deal-
ing with secret societies that were under-
mining the faith of the people. In this he
had the assistance of Queen Louise Maria,
who was a devout Catholic.
	His later life is better known, he was a
marvel in many respects, even to his clos-
est associates.
	Such men leave the impress of their
greatness upon the age. Now thousands
crowd to do him honor, to gaze upon his
features, but life is transitory and the great
and noble must perish as well as the poor
and humble.
	Pope Leo’s spirit took its flight at 4:04
p. m., July 20, in the Vatican at the re-
nowned city of Rome, Italy. The news
soon spread to all parts of the world. Great
ceremony followed and prayers and masses
and chants and requiems will be kept up
until all the rights pertaining to the death
of the head of the Roman Catholic Church
have been observed. It is very splendid
and imposing, and will make a deep im-
pression upon the minds of the populace
who are more or less influenced by symbols
and colors and parade, but when one con-
trasts it with the death and lack of cere-
mony of the blessed Savior of the world
one cannot help but think, “All is vanity.”
	The dear old Pope is at rest, it will not
and cannot concern him, it is the new order
of things since the days of Christ and his
Apostles Pope Leo’s rest is sweet after
the battle he so valiantly fought. The
music of the churches is sweet to the peo-
ple who mourn for him, but the celestial
music that floats through the realms of para-
dise far surpasses human voices, and the
prayers and benedictions he hears not,
though they may comfort those who still
toil on the earth searching for wisdom and
for truth.

“Strong to the end, a man of nerve, from out the
	strife he passed;
The grandest hour of all his life, was that of earth 
the last." 
	So true are these grand words of our own
poet, Whittier.
	And so are these:

“Beyond the poet’s sweet dream lives,
The eternal epic of the man."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES' CLASS. 
The graduating exercises of the Relief
Society Nurses’ Class of seventy-five stu-
dents who have been receiving instructions
this year, were held in Barrett Hall of the
L. D. S. University, June 24, 1903, Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, the instructor, and
Mrs. Emma A. Empey, superintendent, in
charge. Certificates were handed to each
graduate and addresses were made by Dr.
Roberts, Mrs. Empey, President B. W.
Smith and President M. I. Horne and
several other ladies and gentlemen. It was
a most interesting occasion and very grati-
fying to the superintendent, the instructor
and to Mrs. Beatie, the secretary, who,
with the other two ladies, has been unre-
mitting in her exertions to bring about the
desired success.
In the evening a reception was given
the nurses at the residence of Bishop and
Mrs. Beatie to which the friends and
patrons of the nurses' class were invited.
Delicious refreshments were served by
the nurses, assisted by other young girls.
There was also music, and recitations by
Miss Babcock, and some other features to
give variety and pleasure to those assem-
bled in honor of the nurses, who with their
pretty white caps and aprons, flitting from
room to room, gave the affair a dainty
and picturesque appearance.
Of the guests of honor there, were the
General Relief Society President, Bath-
sheba W. Smith, President M. Isabella
Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake, Emmeline
B. Wells, editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Sis-
ters Emma S. Woodruff, Lucy W. Kim-
ball, Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Edna L.
Smith, Maria V. Dougall, Catharine Layne,
Eliza K. Woolley, and Bishop N. A. Em-
pey, Elder B. H. Roberts, Elder W. B.
Dougall and Prof. J. W. Miller.
The evening was delightfully spent in
conversation and congratulations to the
graduates, who go from here to their
homes in the several Stakes of Zion into
the states and territories adjacent to begin
the practical work of nursing the sick and
ministering in this beautiful calling with
tender and loving care to the afflicted ones,
with the skill and gentleness they have
been taught, carrying the influence of this
beautiful mission into the homes of the
people wherever it may be their lot to min-
ister from time to time.
The EXPONENT wishes them God speed
in their labors and may they be a blessing
wherever they go, realizing how grand and
noble is the work to which they have been
called and set apart, and what it may mean
to them in their own development and to
the welfare and well-being of the Saints,
wherever this beautiful spirit may extend.


MRS. JENNINGS’ TEA PARTY.

	Mrs. Wm. Jennings, whose capabilities
as a hostess are known far and wide, gave
one of her unique afternoon “Teas” at
her new residence on the corner of Second
and B. Streets, in this city, on Friday, June
26, at 4 o’clock p. m. Fifty ladies were
invited and nearly all responded. The
rooms were beautifully decorated with
flowers, mostly roses and carnations, and
the tables with snowy linen, rare china,
silver and cut glass were elegant in appear-
ance, and the delicate flowers, charmingly
arranged, added to the delicious viands.
	Mrs. Jennings is an admirable entertainer


and has wonderful tact in making her
guests happy, and on this occasion each one
was presented with a pretty fan, a most
suitable gift for a summer day.
	At the tables small, and large, the ladies
were grouped together pleasantly, and
when all were seated a blessing was asked
upon the food, the home and the hostess by
one of the distinguished sisters, President
Bathsheba W. Smith. Sisters M. Isabella
Horne, Julina L. Smith, Sarah Jenne Can-
non, Lydia Ann Wells, Amelia F. Young,
Ellen Barton, Annie Taylor Hyde, Susan
E. Smith, Charlotte F. Richards, Eliza T.
Cannon, Susan P. Brooks, Sarah R. Smith,
Martha G. Wells, Maria Y. Dougall, Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson, Edna L. Smith, Lydia
D. Alder, Maria W. Wilcox, Agnes Swartz,
Ella W. Hyde, Martha T. Cannon,
Hannah C. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams,
Alice K. Smith, Sarah A. J. Cannon, Min-
nie J. Snow., Susan H. Wells, Mary T.
Smith, Marian Beatie, Ann E. Groesbeck,
Sophia Sharp, Phebe Y. Beatie, Myra Y.
Rossiter, Annie Dinwoodey, Rachel R.
Grant, Emma A. Empey, Sarah Din-
woodey, Lizzie Sharp, Eunice Foster,
Rachel Patrick and others, including the
writer. The sisters whose names appear are
nearly all workers in the Salt Lake Temple.
The music, both vocal and instrumental,
was very fine and greatly appreciated.
	Mrs. Jennings parties are always very
enjoyable and this one was no exception to
the general rule. A spirit of harmonious
sociability pervaded the gathering. As we
journey along through life we find that to
meet our friends even casually is a kind of
satisfaction, that we come to appreciate
greatly in this busy work-a-day world.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REUNION.

The Relief Society of Jordan Stake had
an interesting reunion in the meeting house
at Sandy, Tuesday, June 23, commencing
at 10 a. m. Exercises opened with singing
“We thank Thee, O God” Prayer was
offered by Elder Samuel Bateman. Sing-
ing, “Israel is calling.”
Address of welcome by President Mar-
inda Bateman, who had charge of the cele-
bration, assisted by other officers and com-
mittees. Sister Bateman’s address was a
hearty welcome to all present and a few
words of congratulation to her numerous
aids and helps in the Relief Society work;
she also appreciated the presence of Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith and the sisters
who were with her from Salt Lake City.
Sister Ellen Turpin, West Jordan, gave
a recitation entitled, “Some Stern Facts
Worth Knowing.” Mary Nelson, of
Draper, recited “Don’t Go.” Remarks,
Counselor James Jenson. Recitation, Miss
Mary Smart, Union Ward. Song, Miss
Anna Hanson. Select reading, Sister Maria
Goff, “Religion.”
President Bathsheba W. Smith was
pleased with the invitation to be present on
such an auspicious occasion: it was rather
difficult for her to get away from the Tem-
ple to do much visiting in the Relief Soci-
ety. She complimented the Saints there on
having such a beautiful hall to meet in, and
spoke of having looked at the minute book
of the first Relief Society in Nauvoo, after
Sister Larson had given the invitation, and
then told them of some of the beautiful
sayings of the Prophet Joseph; said she felt
Sister Eliza R. Snow had kept correct min-
utes. Sister Smith said many good things,
even though she spoke briefly, and she also
blessed the assembly.
Sister Crane, of Harriman, read a chap-
ter from Abram Kimball’s life, which was
a strong testimony of the truth of the Gos-
pel.
Sister Delilah Gardner read an excellent
essay, “Past and Present,” which we have
given in full in this paper.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Inter-
mission.

BANQUET.

[Column 2]
As many as could be seated in the large
hall below repaired thither and were seated,
about one hundred in all, President B. W.
Smith and President Marinda Bateman at
the head of the table where about fifty were
seated, all women, with two or three ex-
ceptions. The tables were profusely dec-
orated with flowers, mostly roses, the frag-
rance most delightful to lovers of beauty.
Every delicacy of the season adorned the
festive board. Elder Willard Snow pro-
nounced the blessing upon the sumptuous
repast. The tables were refilled again and
again until all assembled from all over Jor-
dan Stake had partaken of the bounteous
supply that had been provided by these
good sisters, who abound in works of love
and kindness.
President Bateman called the assembly
together and the program was continued,
first by singing “Let earth and heaven
agree.” Remarks upon Relief Society
work and testimony concerning Joseph the
Prophet, Sister E. B. Wells, after which
President B. W. Smith added other remarks
concerning the Prophet Joseph. Song, “I
am thinking of my mother," Sister Garridet.
Recitation, “Jamie,” Miss Mabel Butler.
Remarks on the great work of the sisters in
the Relief Society by Counselor Annie Tay-
lor Hyde, she also read the missionary let-
ter prepared by President B. W. Smith for
the sisters who visit the Relief Society con-
ferences in the several Stakes of Zion. Song
by the Young Ladies from Butler. Mrs.
Sarah Wilson Harrison, of Sandy, recited
“Joseph Smith, the Prophet,” a poem pub-
lished long ago in the Millennial Star, very
good and suitable to entertainments of this
kind. Remarks, Elder Samuel Bateman,
very appropriate and interesting. Duet,
Young Ladies of Sandy. Remarks on
practical matters and suggestion pertaining
to Relief Society labors of timely interest,
by Sister Clarissa S. Williams, daughter of
President George A. Smith. Elder James
Jenson, select readings from Caudle Lec-
tures.
Altogether, the reunion was from the be-
ginning to the close replete with good
things, and should awaken a wider and
more definite interest in the work of this
grand benevolent organization of the women
of the Church. Already great things have
been done by the few, now is the time for
greater things by the many.


MOTHERS’ WORK.

ALBERTA STAKE OF ZION, WEST DISTRICT.

	Sentiment:—And God created man in His own
image, male and female created He them, and
said unto them, be fruitful and multiply and re-
plenish the earth. Gen. i: 28.

Lecture I.—Mother Know Thy Mission:

	Her environments and life to be in accord
with the desire to be spiritually, morally,


[Column 1]
mentally and physically prepared for this
holy mission of parentage.

	Sentiment:—Put on the whole armor of righteous-
ness, that we may be able to stand against the
wiles of the adversary, for we wrestle not against
flesh and blood, but against the powers of the
darkness of the world. Eph. vi: II.

Lecture II.—Motherhood:

	Must be studied from the highest stand-
ards for the development of her offspring,
that she may impart to it the grandest char-
acter possible.

	Sentiment:—The hand that rocks the cradle
rules the world.

Lecture III.—The Baby:

	What shall we do to have our babies
healthy, happy and develop with good
habits?

	Sentiment:—Example is better than precept.

Lecture 4. —Home:

	The child’s heaven if made so by the par-
ents bright and loving influence. Teach
and practice cleanliness, order, and a proper
regard for the rights of children.

	Sentiment:—Honor thy father and mother which
is the first commandment with promise.

Lecture V.—Obedience is Heaven’s First
	Law:

	Let this be the keynote, and love the
power to bring into the lives of our family
a reverence for parents Priesthood, and
sacred things.

	Sentiment:—A sound mind in a sound body.

Lecture VI.—Hygiene in the Home:

	Diet, dress, exercise and cleanliness.

Lecture VII.— Word of Wisdom:

	Its influence on parents and children.

	Sentiment:—As the twig is bent, so the tree in-
clines.

Lecture VIII.—The Transition of Nature:

	The bud must bloom—maidenhood.

Lecture IX.—Healthful Dress for Young.
	Girls:

	Fashions, how far to follow them.
Spiritual, physical and mental development.

Lecture X.— Value of Moments:

	How to use them.

Lecture XI.— The Necessity of Reading
	Proper Literature:

	Also of studying and understanding the
Gospel plan.

Lecture XII.—Review of Subjects:

	The influence and blessing of a good wife
and mother.

	Mary L. Woolf, Rhoda C. Hinman, Jane
Hinman, Lydia Brown, Elizabeth Ham-
mer, Sarah B. Daines, Committee.
	Zina Y. Card, Chairman.

		MORGAN STAKE.

First Lecture:

“God help us parents all to live aright,
	And may our homes all love and truth unfold,
Since life for us no loftier aim can hold
Than leading little children to the light.”

[Column 2]
	What kind of women should we be as
mothers in Israel?
	(a) Strong physically and mentally.
	(b) Example better than precept.
	Why?
	(c) Deportment to husband and chil-
	dren. Women must honor and obey
	their husbands, as the husbands’
	do their God and the Priesthood.
	Thus we teach by example the first
	law of heaven—obedience.

Second Lecture:

	A perfect woman nobly planned,
	To warn, to comfort and command.

	Home environments, and its influences.
Spiritual environment.
	(a) Each day should properly begin
	with prayer; peace, love and con-
	tentment come from within.
	(b) Temporal environments. Influence
	of order in the home. Cleanliness.
	(c) Economy of time and means.

“Count that day lost whose low descending sun,
Views from thy hand no worthy action done.”

Third Lecture:

	The preparation and responsibility of
motherhood.
	(a) The thoughts of the mother, her
	faith and daily life.
	(b) The wardrobe, the room and care
	for the infant.
	(c) The little one, its growth physic-
	ally, spiritually and intellectually.

	As the twig is bent, the tree’s inclined.

	Of all earth’s affections, pure undefiled,
Is the love and devotion of an innocent child.

Fourth Lecture:

	The rights of the child in the home. The
child a sacred trust or gift from God.
	(a) Exchange of confidence between
	mother and child.
	(b) Pay strict attention to proper
	questions and give suitable answers.
	Due respect for the child’s feelings.

	“Too much indulgence has spoiled many a child,
too much love not one.”

Fifth Lecture:

Child’s duty at home and abroad.
	(a) Why do children lie, steal, profane
	the name of Deity and use slang?
	(b) Methods of counteracting these
	evils.
	(c) Late hours, its effects. Evils of
	children on the streets or away from
	home at night. Respect for public
	property. Compare the cultivation of
	childhood to the cultivation of flow-
	ers; the neglect to the neglected
	flower bed.

Sixth Lecture:
	
Boyhood and maidenhood.
	(a) Special care now required in re-
	gard to dress and health.
	(b) Give special religious training in
	order that they may honor the Priest-
	hood
	(c) Assist them in selecting proper
	companions and books.
	(d) Courting and marriage in the
	Church so as not to be deprived of
	the blessings of the Gospel.

	The path of duty is the path of safety.

	Sarah L. Eddington, Annie Clark, Lav-
nia Stewart, Committee.

[Column 3]
	Lydia Rich, president, Martha Tonks,
Mary J. Welch, counselors. 
	Sarah J. Francis, chairman of com-
mittee.

		BENSON STAKE.

Lecture I.—Divinity of Womans Mission:
		(a) First command given to Adam
	and Eve Gen i: 28.
		(b) Woman as a helpmate Gen. ii:
	28; Juvenile Instructor. Vol. 38, No.
	12.
		(c) Woman divinely chosen to be a
	mother Gen. xvii: 15-20; I Nephi ii:
	14-21.
		(d) Mission of woman further ex-
	plained: 1. Joseph Smith’s instruc-
	tions at the organization of the Relief
	Soeiety. 2. Address to the Relief Soci-
	ety, April 3, 1903, by President Jos.
	F. Smith—WOMAN’S EXPONENT, Vol.
	31: 23-34

God bless woman, for to her has been given,
To people the earth with the roses of heaven. 

Lecture II.—Home:

		(a) What constitutes a home.
		(b) An ideal home. As a pattern,
	Doc and Cov. Sec. 109: 8, 9.

“Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam,
Be it ever so humble, there’s no place like home;
A charm from the sky seems to hallow us there, 
Which seek through the world, is ne’er met with
	elsewhere.”

Lecture III.—Arrangement of the Home:

		(a) Comfort:— Young Womans’ Jour-
	nal Vol. 13, Nos. 1, 2, 10, 11, 12.
		(b) Economy of money, time,
	strength—Young Woman’s Journal
	Vol 13.
		(c) Convenience—Young Woman’s
