	“Millennial Star,’’ vol. 15, no. 1,
“Juvenile Instructor,” vol 37, no. 10,
	p. 593) (b) In no years of a child’s
	life does it learn so much as during the
	first six years. It acquires a knowl-
	edge of things about it through its five
	senses: (c) Proper respect for parents,
	to the aged, and for the rights and
	privilege of one another in the home
	and also abroad. (d) Reverence for
	places of worship and for Deity. (e) Re-
	spect for public property.

Lesson IX.—Childhood (continued).

Habits:
		“Habit is a cable; we weave a thread
[Column 3]
	of it every day, and at last we cannot
	break it.” (a) Habit becomes second
	nature. Form only good ones that ye
	many have none to reform. Crowd out
	the evil habits by cultivating the good.
	(b)Habit of prompt obedience, truth-
	fulness, gentleness and unselfishness.
	“It is better to give than to receive.”
	(c)Necessity of reading proper whole-
	some literature. Why? Stories told
	to children should be pleasant. Evil
	effects of “Bugaboo and Blackman”
	stories. (d) Form a habit in the home
	of reading a chapter, singing a hymn
	and prayer before retiring. Avoid
	speaking disrespectful of God’s anoint-
	ed, or finding fault with anyone. Ef-
	fects. (Refer to discourse by President
	Jos. F. Smith at Conference, October
	1903).
Lesson X.—Childhood (continued).

Chastity: 
		(a) Give the true definition of chas-
tity. How can we as mothers best
	avoid impure thoughts within our
	children! (b) Keep the body and mind
	pure and clean that the spirit of God
	may dwell therein, (c) Every deed
	committed originates in the mind.
	Pure thoughts bring forth good actions.
	(d)Teach the child that by continually
	cultivating pure thoughts and actions
	he can counteract evil influences with
	which he may come in contact. (e)
	Teach the child the sacred laws of life
	before he gains evil knowledge from
	evil minds. (Refer to “Juvenile In-
	structor,” November 15, 1902, p.
	688 Matt. V: 8).

Lessori XI.—Childhood (continued)

At Home and Abroad:
		(a) Why do children lie, steal, pro-
	fane the name of Deity and use slang?
	Methods of counteracting these evils.
(b) Late hours. Its effects. Evils of
	children bring on streets or away from
	home at night. (c) Children socials
	should begin early and close before
	curfew time. How can we as Latter-
	day Saints best overcome these evils?

Lesson XII.—Childhood (continued).

(a) Govern by love and confidence,
	not fear, self government. “Teach
	our children correct principles, and they
	will govern themselves” (President
	Young). (b) Value of moments. Why
	should our children be kept employed?
	Youth the golden age. Improve the
	present, there is no to-morrow, (c) Why
	should children have set tasks and light
	responsibilities within the home?

“Oh! thou child of many prayers,
	Life hath quicksands—life hath snares,
	Care and age come unawares.’’

We would suggest that the years work
	be briefly reviewed or summarized.
						ANNIE C. HINDLEY,
SINA CHIPMAN,
						E. J. T. ROBERTS,
									Committee,
		FREMONT STAKE.
	Our Motto:—The noblest work of God is man
perfected,


	We say to mothers what a holy charge
is theirs, with what a holy power their lives


[Column 1]
might rule the foundations of the new born
mind. Warn them to wake at early dawn
and sow good seed before the world has
sown its tares,
	In our study we are seeking for what will
be the ultimate good of the child, not what
will be for the child’s gratification, or the
mother’s present convenience.

Talk I.—Heredity.
	What is meant by heredity? Why
do we say that the child is just like its
grandfather? Do children inherit the
appetites and habits of progenitors?

Talk II.—Spiritual.
	The birth of Christ. His lineage.

Talk III.—Parental Influence.
	(a) What is the difference between
pre-natal influence and heredity
(b) How does environment effect the
unborn child? (c) Why should we
live much out of doors and commune
with nature? (d) Why in the same
family is one child fretful and morose
and another cheerful, glad and happy?
(e) How may the mother influence the
disposition of her child?

Talk IV.—Study the Life of the Mother of
	Christ.
	What traits in Mary’s character
would especially qualify her to become
the mother of the Son of God?

Talk V.—The growth of an Infant.
	The baby’s food, (a) When should
other food than that which nature pro-
vides be given to the baby? (b) Why
should the food be especially watched
during teething? (c) Why should
you not give meat to the baby?
(d)Why should there be regular, hours
for the baby’s meals?

VI.—Obedience.
	Christ’s submission to his mother-
The visit to Jerusalem to the Passover-
(a) Why should children be taught
early to obey their parents? (b) How
can this be done? (c) How do you
manage the wilful child?

VII.—The Baby’s Clothing.
	(a) How should the clothing be
cared for? (b) What is the purpose of
clothing? (c) What are some good cus-
toms, or styles, for the infant’s clotting?
(d) Why should the clothing of the day
not be worn at night? (e) What effect
has long starched clothes on the baby
or why is the baby often more cross on
Sunday than on other days? (f) What
care should be used in dressing the
feet?

VIII.—The Sacredness of Honor.
	(a) How to develop a sense of honor?
(b)What does, it mean to tell the
truth? How can you get children to
tell you of all that they do? (d) How

[Column 2]
can you break a child from being sly
and taking little things unknown to
you?

Talk IX.—Occupation of the Child at Home.
	(a) If you wish your children to love
you get them to do for you. (b) Why
does the mother’s love go out more to
the invalid child than to any other?
(c) Why should the child be given
special work to do? (d) Why should
the child have its own drawer or hook
for its clothing? (e) Why should not
the mother put everything in the
child’s hands that it wants?

Talk X.— Why is Play Necessary for the
	Child?
	(a) What toys and other provisions
for play should be provided the child?
(b) Why does the little boy take more
delight in blocks of wood or boards
than in the toy house completed? (c)
Why the little girl in the rag doll, than
in the finely dressed wax one?

Talk XL—Faith.
	(a) When should children be taught
to pray? (b) How will you teach them
to ask a blessing? (c) When shall they
take part in the family prayers. (d)
How will you teach faith in the Ordi-
nances?

Talk XII.—Review the Entire Work.
		SUSAN STEVENS,
		MARTHA G LLOYD,
		SARAH A. BARNES,
		CARRIE SMITH.
					Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.			TRY US
[Column 2]	
	NOTICE TO SECRETARIES.

	Stake and mission secretaries in the Re-
lief Society will please remember that the
year 1903 is drawing near its close, and
make ready to report the year’s work from
January 1, 1903, to December 31, 1903, so
that the General Secretary may be able to
make a complete report of all the stakes of
Zion and all the missions. The foreign
missions are requested to make correct re-
ports of every branch society within the
mission, Scandinavia, Germany, Switz-
erland, Holland Great Britain and Ireland,
New Zealand, Tasmania, Australia, Sand-
wich Islands and far off Samoa Address
Mrs. E. B. Wells, General Secretary,
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
	WRITE for any information desired.
					JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
					GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier,	
No. 1 Main Street.


HASTE AND REST.
Goethe says “Nature works without
haste or rest.” But we are more than na-
ture, and in our spiritual life haste and rest
seem to be inevitable alternatives. We are
obliged in the effort called for by great
crises to borrow sirength from the future,
to draw without measure upon our vital
forces. If this borrowed capital were not
put back we would become melancholy and
insane defaulters. Women, it is said, pos-
sess more of this dangerous power of bor-
rowing nervous strength than men do and
this probably accounts for the breaking
down of some of them who seem at the
start well endowed with personal vigor. A
physiologist like the late Ceorge Combe, to
whom health was the highest virtue, would
shake his head and say:“You mnst not
disobey the natural laws.” But we might
well reply that, we must break them some-
times in obedience to the higher spiritual
laws which it belongs to our humanity to
follow and to illustrate. In the great wars
of conscience, in the Herculean efforts of re-
form, yes, even in the sacrad offices of
friendship and family affection, we must
often turn our back upon the conditions of
our physical well-being. We must fast or
feed poorly; we must adjourn the impera-


tive call of sleep, we must confront the-
fatigue, exposure, heat and cold, malaria,
pestilence, contagion—in higher interests
than those of onr bodily welfare. He who
spends his life in this way does not throw it
away.
It is true that in such times of physical
trial and endurance one may experience
great peace of mind. We may carry with
us into the war of weapons or opinions a
serene restfulness. We have been called
we have not only answered, but have also
gone in obedience to the sacred mandate.
The most consummate rest that we can
have we shall experience after this fashion.
When we not only say but also act “God’s
will be done” we rest in tnat perfect will.
What repose can be like unto this?—Julia
Ward Howe.


NOTES AND NEWS.
Mrs. Mary C. C. Bradford, president of
the Colorado State Federation, proposes
that a Trans-Mississippi congress of club-
women be held in Denver next June. Mrs.
Bradford is now traveling in the West in-
teresting clubs in the plan.
Mrs. Stanford, just before she left for
her trip around the world, gathered to-
gether many of her family valuables cu-
rios and relics and presented them to the
Stanford University Museum. The col-
lection is made up of articles of many
descriptions. There are engravings valu-
able porcelain ware and china and glass-
ware. Silver spoons of artistic workman-
ship of the early centuries form an inter-
esting part of the collection. There are
costly Egyptian and Turkish embroider-
ies, Maltese lace, and some beautiful ex-
amples of Japanese handicraft and art.


<Kanab Relief Society>
								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
