Vol. 32				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1903					No. 6.


CONTENTS.
Women of the Scripture.........H. J. King   41
Mothers’ Work............................   42, 46
Lecture on Mothers’ Work.......B. Fregeagle   43
City of Mexico.....................  Lexia Curtis   43
In Memoriam................... E. H. Clark   46
R. S. Reports....................................   47
EDITORIAL—Service For Others—Erratta—Notice
	Secretaries—History of the Relief Society—
	Weddings and Receptions—Daughters of the
	Pioneers—Annual Meeting D. R.............   44
POETRY—The Conflict...... Abbie H. Richards   41
	Loneliness..............  Jennie Beeching   43


THE CONFLICT.
The question we are bent upon solving, 
	Is the question of right or of wrong;
In this age that we deem progressive,
	We wait not for story or song;
But we plunge in the midst of life’s battles,
	With hearts that are earnest and true,
And look up to God to direct us,
	In the work we are given to do.
The work? To defend our hearthstones,
	From a foeman both subtle and bold;
Who is armed with the shield of deception,
	The banner of pleasure unfolds;
Whose fortress is strong and whose batteries
	Are masked with such cunning and skill,
We know not the death-dealing volley,
	He can pour in our homes at his will.
This foeman so crafty and cunning
	Is taking from out our fair land.
From the ranks of our sons and our brothers,
	The bravest and best of the land.
He is breaking the hearts of the mothers, 
	He is silvering the brown hair with white,
And pitying angels are grieving,
	With sad-hearted mothers tonight.
From wives he has taken the husbands,
	From children he’s taken the bread;
And sisters bereft of their brothers,
	And fathers to infamy led.
And this demon with greed still insatiate,
	Takes from woman her honor and fame;
Takes all that would make life a blessing,
	And leaves her but ruin and shame.
Would you know the name of this foeman,
	Who seeks all our best to destroy;
This vampire that feeds on the life-blood,
	That kills every hope, every joy;
This minion of Satan who serves him
	With energy, purpose and will?
’Tis the rum-king, whose haunts are the dram-
	shops,
	Who was cradled and nursed in the still.
For years he has ravished the people,
	Denounced all the good and the true;
And the blood of brave Haddock is calling,
	For vengeance that justly is due.
Our martyrs, brave Haddock and Gambrel,
	Who fell in the midst of the fight.
To defend our fair land from dishonor,
	Are sleeping in silence tonight.
But up from the homes have arisen
	An army, demanding the right;
A band of brave, true, noble women,
	Whose badge is the ribbon of white.
Before them the monster shall perish
	As sure as stars shine in the skies;
As sure as God reigneth in heaven,
	From the death grapple truth shall arise.
				ABBIE HURD RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
WOMEN OF THE SCRIPTURES

	The women of the Old Scriptures are ad-
mirable specimens of the Genus; there ap-
pears no vanity, no frivolity, no weakness; 

[Column 2]
all is simple dignity, stern duty, and strict
obedience to principle. In the short space
allowed in a small paper, it is impossible to
elaborate the subject; I will, then, briefly
enumerate some of the principal women;
and at some future time, perhaps, take up
the rest.
	Eve, the sovereign mother of all living!
She stands in close proximity to God the
Father, for she is the life giving spirit of
the innumerable hosts that have figured
upon this earth. The one grand, stupend-
ous act of her life is all that is told of her
in the Bible, and it is enough. Milton
draws her picture with the pen of inspira-
tion:

“Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye;
In every gesture dignity and love!” 

	Sarah, the wife of Abraham, one highly
favored of the Lord, is distinguished by
her truth and faithfulness in all the travels
and changes of their lives. At the time
that the Lord promised her great and sin-
gular blessings, He changed the orthogra-
phy of her name, adding the letter h as the
finale; and placing it in the centre of the
name of Abram, making it Abraham! Of
course He had a purpose in this, though it
is not explained; h is said to be a cabalistic
letter, and if so it denoted increased power
and blessings.
	Hagar is also a remarkable character; her
position and peculiar trials, and her entire
dependence upon God under them, ejacu-
lating, in the fulness of her heart. “Thou
God seest me,” called down to her relief in
the desert an angel of God! Her history
is full of thrilling pathos, and calls out our
richest sympathy.
	The description of Rebecca is very sweet
and womanly, and as a young girl she ex-
hibits a degree of understanding and de-
cision rarely found in mature characters.
She decided at once, after hearing the mis-
sion of the servant of Abraham, who had
been sent to find a wife for his son Isaac,
to accompany him back to his master
Abraham, and she became the wife of Isaac,
and appears to have been an instrument in
the hands of God in bringing about His
purposes with regard to Abraham's poster-
ity, and is ever named as a devoted wife
and mother.
	Rachel next appears; her character is
sweet and gentle. She is the beloved of
Jacob, who served seven years for her—
and they seemed but so many days, for the
love he had for her. Joseph and Benjamin
were her sons, and were an honor to her
and a blessing to their family; Joseph’s
history is grand and romantic, and through
much tribulation he became the Savior of
his father’s house, and a type of the future
that was then in the distance.
	Miriam, the prophet sister of Moses and
Aaron, was a very remarkable character;
her destiny appears to be interwoven in
that of her august brother. When Moses,
as an infant, was hidden, by his mother,
in the bulrushes of the river ftile, to pre-
serve his life from the cruel mandate of
Pharaoh, who had commanded the male
children to be destroyed. Miriam was

[Column 3]
placed by her mother to watch there and, 
Soon the daughter of the King came down
to the river with her maidens to bathe, and
seeing the child she was astonished and
delighted with his beauty, as he smiled
upon her in his sweet innocence. Miriam
then approached, and the princess told her
to go and get a nurse for him, as she meant
to bring him up as her own son. The de-
lighted girl ran for his mother, and she was
taken within the place to nurse and attend
him. Again, Miriam appears in his after
life, when he had been called of God to be-
come the leader and the law-giver of Is-
rael; we find her walking foot to foot, hand
to hand with the servant of God; she ap-
pears in all the grand epochs of that event-
ful pilgrimage of forty years’ travel through
the wilderness; and on one occasion was
called conjointly with her brothers, Moses
and Aaron, by the voice of God! At one
time she erred in her judgment of Moses,
and her punishment was severe; but by
the prayer of Moses she was healed. On
all triumphant occasions it appears that she
took her harp and led the songs of Zion;
and her glorious song of triumph, after the
passage of the Red Sea, is thrilling and in-
spiring, even at this remote date; all de-
note her a noble woman, a priestess and a
prophetess of God.
	The next prominent feminine character is
Deborah; she judged Israel forty years,
and she “dwelt under a palm tree,” and
“the children of Israel came up to her for
judgment.” Barak seems to have full
faith in her prophetic office, and received
the word of the Lord through her lips; but
yet declared that unless she would accom-
pany the army of Israel, he would not go
up; and she answered him, “I will surely
go with thee;” and he went up with ten
thousand men, and Deborah went with
him;” and the armies of Israel prevailed
and were mighty conquerors. Then fol-
lows the sublime song of Deborah; she is
an inspired improvisatrice, and is the leader
in that song—for the Scripture saith., “then
sang Deborah and Barak.” Her character
stands out in bold relief, mighty and irre-
proachable!
	The history of Esther the Queen is a
beautiful illustration of the devotion of wo-
man! Her purity, her filial love for Mor-
decai—who had reared her, she being an 
orphan—and her obedience to his counsel,
and reliance upon his judgment in the
critical circumstances in which they and
their people were placed at that time, are
all beautifully portrayed in the sacred
pages. In this d y of liberty, of freedom
of speech and action, we can hardly judge
of the dangerous situation in which she
was placed; The king, Ahasuerus, was an
absolute monarch; his word was the law,
and he had decreed that no one should ap-
proach him, man or woman, for thirty days!
—death was to be the penalty to any who
presumed to disobey this mandate, unless
the king held out the golden sceptre, as the
emblem of peace. There had been a con-
spiracy raised against Mordecai and his peo-
ple, the Jews, and before the thirty days
they would all have been destroyed. Hence


Mordecai sent to entreat Esther to seek an
audience with the king, and lay before him
the critical circumstances in which they 
were placed. She fasts and prays, and then
she goes forward, with her life in her hand,
saying, “If I perish, I perish!” The king
held out to her the golden sceptre, heard
her story, and her people were saved! 
Vol. 6, March 1, 1878.
HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	"Be a woman, on to duty,
		Raise the world from all that’s low, 
	Place high in the social heaven
		Virtue’s fair and radiant bow, 
	Lend thine influence to each effort 
		That shall raise our nature human;
	Be not fashions gilded lady
		Be a brave, whole-souled, true woman,”

Lesson I.—Harmony in the home:

	 (a) Seek Divine aid and cultivate
	patience. (b) Mutual interests the
	greates[-] bond. (c) Cheerfulness and
	smiles essential in the home.

Lesson II.—Proper amusements in the home:
		(a) The value of good books. (b)
		Music and its influence. (c) How
		shall we entertain our children at home.
		(d)Evil effects of card playing.
			SENTIMENT.
	"No matter what his rank or position may be,
the lover of good books is the richest and happiest
	of the children of men."

Lesson III.—Honor the Sabbath Day.

		 (a) Six days shalt thou labor and do
	all thy work; etc. (b) The great evil
	of pleasure seeking on the Sabbath.
	(c) Late hours, its effects, evils of
	children on the streets or away from
	home at night.

Lesson IV.—Respect for the priesthood.
		(a) Irreverence one of the perils of
	our day. (b) Deportment to husband
	and children. “Women must honor
	and obey their husbands as the hus-
	bands do their God and the Priest-
	hood. Thus we teach by example the
	first law of heaven—Obedience.”
Lesson V:
	“Honor, to women! to them it is given
	To gladden the earth with roses of heaven"
	True meaning of motherhood. 
	(a) Better a just mother than an un-
selfish one. (b) Foundation of charac-
		ter laid in the first few years of a
		child's life.
Lesson VI.—Honor thy Father and Mother.

			(a) Respect for the aged, (b) The
		companionship of parents and children
		both for the good of the children and
		parents.

	President Anna R. Dude, First Coun-
selor, Elizabeth Murdock, second counselor,
Louisa Alexander. Eliza Rasband, Mar-
garet Murdock, Emma Duke, Clara Clyde,
Sarah K. Duke Sec.

		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
Lecture I.--Home and Parenthood.
	(a) Perfect confidence between hus-

[column 2]
		band and wife worthily obtained and a
		mutual desire to have their offspring
		well born. (b) Their first desire to
		have children well born and to rear a
		posterity that will be valiant in the
		cause of truth. “Love is the divine
		essence of our being. It flows from
		God into our souls and is our life.”
Lecture II.--Motherhood.

	Study the laws of hygiene and exer-
		cise every means to secure health. 	
	(a) Preparation for motherhood,
		mentally and spiritually. (b) Prayer.
(c) Cleanliness. (d) Cheerfulness. 
	“A wise man governs his passions, a fool per-
mits his passions to govern him.”
Lecture III.—The rights of a child in the
	home.
			(a)Mental moral and physical en-
		dowments. (b) Proper attention to
		food and clothing. (c) Useful employ- 
		ment. (d) Respect for the child’s feel-
		ings.
	“Train up a child in the way it should go and
when it is old it will not depart from it.”
Lecture IV.—Mother and Child.

		“In what Christian country can we
		deny the influence which a mother ex-
		erts over the whole life of her child.”
		(a) Need of inspiration. (b) Perfect
		confidence.
	The mother who is most patient, cheerful and
prayerful is the one whose influence will be most
strongly felt.

Lecture. V.—Moral Development
			(a)Restrain all evil tendencies in
		the child. (b) Discourage slang ex-
		pressions. (c) Teach proper respect
		for all especially the aged.
	“Keep at the least within the compass of moral
actions.”
Lecture VI.—System in the Home.

	Home! What a hallowed name! how full of en-
chantment and how dear to the heart.
			(a) Economy of time and means.
(b) Order.
	"A place for everything and every thing in its
place.”
	Emma S Smith President; Sarah Driggs,
Mary J. R. West Counselors; Della F.
Smith Secretary, Janet M. Smith Treasurer.

		NORTH SANPETE STAKE
Lecture I—Motherhood. E. C. D.

	‘‘Multiply and replenish the earth” was the very
first law ever given to the inhabitants of this
world.''
		1. Preparation should be made phys-
	ically in proper diet, sleep, bathing,
	dress and regular habits.
		2.Mentally, by conversing, by ob-
serving nature and humanity, by read-
	 ing, by music—vocal or instrumental,
	and by practising self control. 
		3.Spiritually, by prayer and the
	performance of religious duties.

Lecture II—Study of the Child. M.L G. 
	To be well born is the right of every child.
		1. Physical development:
		Attention to proper clothing, nurs-
	ing, bathing, sleep.
		2. Weaning, creeping, exercise, play-
	time etc.
		3. Mental development:

[column 3]
		(a)Training of the senses, learning
	to talk, telling suitable stories. (b)
	Every normal child is a question mark.
		(c)Every wise mother should encour-
	age this trait.
		4. Moral development:
		(a) Parents should study peculiar
	characteristics of the child. (b) Obe-
	dience must be taught early. (c) En-
	courage generosity and patience.

Lecture III—Study of the Child (continued).
	M. L. G.
		The mother’s cares increase with
the age of the child.
	(a) Provide outdoor and indoor
games. (b) Give only plain and eas-
ily digested food). avoid candy, pastry,
	meat and pickles. (c) Reasonable
	work and play, establish good habits,
	and develop the brain and muscle.
	(d)Lessons taught now will remain
	with the child through life; stories
	from the Bible, Book of Mormon and
	Jnvenile Instructor, good pictures will
	be helpful. (e) The child must res-
	spect the rights of others; don’t threat-
	en, don’t deceive, don’t scold; love the
	children and keep them near you.

Lecture I.V—Childhood. C. L.E. 
		Encourage pure thoughts a[-]d high
	ideals. The Gospel ideal is to reach
	perfection.
	(a) Good reading. (b) Obedience.
(c) Truthfulness, (d) Deportment.
(e) Generosity. (f) Prayer. 
Lecture V—Youth:   C. L. E.

	‘‘O thou child of many prayers!
	Life hath quicksands, life hath snares; 
	Care and age come unawares.”
		1. Teach boys and girls to work and
	take their share of the responsibility in
	the family.
		(a) All work is honorable and begets
	happiness, (b) Recreation and social
	amusement are necessary; take the
	greatest care in the choice of compan-
	ions, (c) Systematic study, reading
	of good books. Good thoughts con-
	trol good actio[-]s. (d) Reverence for
	God, for old age, for superiors and for 
	law, are indispensable to a noble char-
	acter. (e) Sincere prayer is the great-
	est safeguard against wrong doing.
	The character of Christ is the true
	ideal.

Lecture VI— Home-nursing. C. L. E.
		Every mother should know some-
	thing of the care for the sick.
			(a) The sick room—how to make it
	pleasant, (b) How to make the bed.
	(c)Cleanliness and ventilation. (d)
	Bathing the patient, giving of medi-
	cines. (e) Emergencies, accidents,
	presence of mind, etc.
					M. L. GOWANS,
					E. C. DAY, 
					C. L. ERICKSON,
							Committee

	Mrs. Orinda Dudley Hornbrooke, of
Newton, Mass., read an interesting paper
at one of the Greenacre meetings on her
cousin, Sibyl Jones, the silver-voiced
preacher and missionary of the Quakers,
born in Maine, a descendant of old Gov.
Dudley, who was trained in the Friends
school at Providence, R. I.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


LONELINESS. 
Alone, in this bleak world of sin. 
Little loved, and prized by God alone. 
Father, mother, sisters, gone; 
Once a united family. 
No one to give me greeting, 
Or smiling welcome home; 
As once there used to be. 
Or warm lips—loving kiss at night or morn. 
But rise my soul, above this melancholy mood. 
Was not the Savior lonely, too
He knoweth thy condition, 
And what is best for thee. 
Why murmur along life’s pathway?
The path He hath marked for thee 
Is surely best—then do thy best 
With loving gratitude. 
He has a work for thee to do, 
And thou must work for thee to do, 
And thou must do it well. 
And, perchance, thou cans't cheer the lonely; 
Speak gently to the aged one, 
Or give the little child a smile. 
And when thy work is done on earth,
And the Father says it is enough, 
Come home and join thy family, 
In the mansions of the blest. 
My soul rejoices at such meeting; 
The bells of heaven will ring with joy, 
When the Father says: "Daughter, well done, 
Enter into the joy of the Lord." 
The city that is of pure gold, and walls of jasper; 
The river of life passing through 
Sweet fields and never withering flowers; 
No sorrow or sickness can enter there. 
Then Oh. my soul, rejoice and rise above earth's 
trifles. 
The future is bright; then keep thine armor bright, 
And meet at home in that bright morning. 

October 8, 1903.                    JENNIE BEECHING,


[Column 1]
LECTURE ON MOTHERS' WORK.

	Hope is one of the first principles of our
religion, hence every young woman that
has been instructed in her usefulness as a
woman when she enters into the marriage
state hopes to become a mother and begins
looking forward with anticipation for the
time when she will realize the fact, then
comes the time for preparation, her thoughts
should be of a spiritual and moral charact-
er, she should try and make things plea-
sant at home, and prepare herself for the
care of a precious charge which has been
intrusted to her. Patience and kindness in
the care of children helps us in our educa-
tion for after life.
	Some mothers think that when they
have seen that the child is fed, dressed,
and its face and hands washed, its wants
have been fully provided for, never think-
ing of the spiritual training that is neces-
sary, and that every moment of the time
that is spent in their presence is building
up their character. These little ones look
upon what father and mother say as gos-
pel and their little minds being unable to
correctly reason they take it all in, there-
fore it is very important that we be very
careful what we say in the home. Home is
 the first and most important school of char-
acter; it is there that every human being
receives his or her first moral training; it
is there that the child imbibes those princi-
ples of conduct which endure through life;
the home makes the man or woman, for
home training not only includes mind and
manners, but character; it is in the home
that the heart is opened, the habits formed,
the intellect awakened and the character
molded for good or evil.
	We must not forget that history will tell
what kind of homes have been kept in this
generation; home training commences from
the time the child has a smile on its face,
we must be careful of our actions from
that time, as the smallest seed sown in the
minds of the children in their home life,
afterwards comes forth to the world; the

[Column 2]
training of any person cannot fail to be in-
fluenced by the moral surroundings of their
early years. The Savior said “Cast thy
bread upon the waters and it shall return
again after many days.” This plainly shows
us what we sow we shall reap; we as Lat-
ter day Saints who profess so much should
have the happiest homes on the earth, we
have been sent here for a wise purpose and
we should make the best of it, this is the
school that is to prepare us for a higher ex-
altation, and let us teach the children that
the good deeds will shine as the stars of
heaven.
	The parent should be constantly on the
lookout to gradually train the little ones
in the work of doing things for themselves;
the mind of the child who has not been
spoiled takes pleasure itf action, in solving
new problems, in developing his resources,
and a skillful parent will fall in with the
workings of nature; but many parents seem
to be afraid to teach their children to help
themselves, the child is watched over and
not allowed to do anything that can be
done for him; things are gathered up after
him, things are put away for him and yet
he is fully able to do it all himself and
would really enjoy doing so, if he had not
been spoiled by over attention; some men
have been so spoiled in childhood, youth,
and early manhood by fond mothers that
they are as helpless as babies about doing
things for themselves; many a woman who
has married a man of this kind is doing
work every day which was cut out for her
by her husband’s mother years and years
before. And mothers are foolish enough to
keep on doing it, the mothers of one gen-
eration are continually making trouble for
the mothers of the next in this way, and
the mothers of girls continually paving the
way for the future unhappiness of their
daughters and their daughters’ husbands
by waiting on their girls too much; a child’s
manners are often a true reflection of his
circumstances and surroundings and who is
responsible for these? not the child certainly.
	We parents should realize that children
should learn to stand on their own feet,
should be taught to develop individuality
and self-help. Have you ever thought of
the fact that the majority of successful men
and women have had to do things for them-
selves when they were young? Each day
brings its trials, troubles, tasks, and pain,
but it also brings its joys, pleasures, satis-
faction, and victories, We are here in the
world, let us live and enjoy the good things
that are before us, there is no man or
woman no matter ho v hard things are going
with them, who cannot find a crumb of
comfort, or a ray of light; patience is the
first, that grace which enables us to bear
affliction and calamities with constancy and
calmness, and a ready submission to God’s
will, first pray then labor.
	Too few mothers recognize the fact that
their childen have certain rights which
should be respected, that among these
rights are a healthy body, a good disposi-
tion, and an intellectual and moral training.
To the extent of her powers a mother
should provide these for her child. I em-
phasize these duties as appertaining to the
mother, since it is she and she alone gen-
erally in whom is vested the important
office of the education of her offspring, the
father may provide and aid his wife, but
he can never take her place in the lives of
his children. The utmost regard for truth,
and abhorence of falsehood should ever be
kept in mind, an open and candid disposition

[Column 3]
ought to be encouraged, and an acknowl-
edged fault rebuked with mildness and then
forgiven, an affable, modest and polite be
haviour should be cultivated, also a lively
and cheerful countenance ; a feeling of
jealousy ought never to be allowed to exist
between children,there should be no marked
preference, the clothing should always
be suited to the season so that exposure to
cold and damp should be avoided, fresh air,
exercise, and cleanliness are essential to
the child, they ought to be constantly
cautioned against hurting themselves with
surrounding objects, and the danger and
pain and bad consequences explained to
them, a child should never be forced to ea
things that it dislikes, over indulgences
should never be allowed, don’t dodge ex-
periences, nor shrink from tests and trials,
character is a structure whose bricks are
experiences. Prosperity and adversity have.
their advantages but be sure and do not
forget from whom .all blessings flow, as the  
twig is bent so the tree is inclined.
	BERTINA TREGEAGLE


CITY OF MEXICO. 
November 7, 1903. 
Mrs. E. B. Wells: 
DEAR SISTER: 
I thought a short description of our trip to 
Ozumba this week would not be uninteresting to 
the readers of the EXPONENT. 
President H. S. Harris and myself left the city 
Wednesday morning to visit the Relief Society 
in Tecalco and Atlantla. They were informed of 
our proposed visit, so made preparations for us. 
The ladies of Tecalco organized, cooked differ-
ent dishes, and carried them to a beautiful little 
grove of pine trees and served a hot dinner on 
plates to fifty-five persons. We had beef, broth, 
rice soup, haha beans, squash prepared in three 
ways, beans in two ways, chili sauce, etc., etc. At 
the conclusion of the meal some of the girls 
favored us with several songs, then we returned 
held our meeting, and went back to Ozumba. 
Thursday morning we took a two-mile walk to 
Atlantla, and found Juana Paez, the local Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, busy in the kitchen. 
She was sitting flat on a ground floor preparing 
string beans for dinner. The fire, that had been 
kindled on the same floor, in the middle of the 
room was blazing up beside her, and the smoke 
would have filled the corn-stock room had there 
been fewer vent holes. 
She has a stove that was brought from the Colo-
nies many years ago, but it is seldom used A 
camp-fire is better for cooking "tortillas" and 
boiling beans, and these are their principal dishes. 
About twelve the members of the Relief Society
began coming in slowly, bringing pic-nic, and we 
were served in the meeting house; at the close we 
reorganized the Society, putting Tomasita Lozala 
in as President, and Juana Paez, the former Presi-
dent, as her second counselor, the first counselor
held her position. That night we returned to 
Ozumba, and Friday morning took the train for 
the city. 
We hold conference in two weeks in Cuerna-
vaca. and fondly hope that some of our Sisters 
from the north will be with us. 
Sister Johnson, the President of the Relief So-
ciety at  Colonia Diaz, Chihuahua, Mexico, has 
been in the city, with her husband, for some time, 
but they were called home last week, however, 
we expect them back in time to join us at the 
Cuernavaca Conference. 
Elders Parry and Foster are assisting President 
Hall in the Cuervanaca branch, and are teaching 
the Saints how to read. 
The Elders and all the American Mormons in 
these parts are enjoying good health. 
With best love to yourself and Sister Smith, 
I am your Sister; 
LEXIA CURTIS HARRIS.
5 a Calle de Humboldt, No. 50 Cindad de 
Mexico.
Mrs. Linda Hull Larned, president of the 
National Household Economic Association, 
returned recently from a four month's Euro-
pean trip.


44   Woman's Exponent

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.



Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH



 Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1903


[Column 1]
SERVICE FOR OTHERS. 
"Build ye more stately mansions, O, my soul." 
On one occasion, in a General Conference 
of the Relief Society, some years ago, Sis-
ter Sarah J. Cannon made the remark that 
the Prophet Joseph Smith, in organizing 
the Relief Society, ,'builded better than he 
knew." Possibly, this is a truth. At any 
rate, we who have been working for forty
years and more, along the lines he marked 
out, realize how much the active benevolent 
work, in this same society, ordinary and 
common-place as it may seem to the un-
initiated, has done towards a practical edu-
cation in the best qualities of the human 
character. We all know, if we would stop 
to think of it, that activity along any line 
of thought or emotion; keeps alive the par-
ticular attribute, or sentiment, and, if it be
noble, helps to make life more happy and 
enjoyable, as well as to develop those hid-
den springs of thought, that we term un-
derstanding. We may learn a great deal 
by study, but, if we never apply the 
knowledge we gain, it will fail us; it will 
vanish away, or stagnate; and, of what use 
are all our efforts to have gained by study, 
if there is no opportunity to make greater 
progress by application. 
The Relief Society work is a grand one, 
organized at an early date, almost before 
woman had begun the active life outside 
the home, that is flourishing so widely now; 
and the Sisters in this Society were getting 
an experience in charitable and philan-
thropic endeavors; and developing great 
mentality and spirituality when like soci-
ities were unknown; except such small 
affairs as sewing circles in the church vestry, 
to make clothing for the heathen. 
We who live today, have fallen upon bet-
ter times. Light has come into the world,
and the rapid growth of the higher and 
nobler faculties of mankind, is little less 
than marvelous. What is termed higher 
education today, does not consist alone in 
dead languages, occult sciences, that re-
quire a life time to comprehend, and that 
often result in what the Scripture speaks of 
as "Ever learning and never able to come 
to a knowledge of truth," but, now-a-days, 
we have applied methods along all lines of 
development, from the kindergarten up-
ward and onward. 
The past two years, we might say, there 
has been a greater effort made than ever 
before, to persuade our young women to 
come into the Relief Society work, for their 

[Column 2]
own benefit; and, as one inducement to-
wards it, lectures are to be given in every 
branch of the society, once a month, on 
the training of children, or, what we have 
termed, mother's work. It was thought 
that this was a subject in which every 
young woman would be interested, as, 
naturally, it is the expectation that young 
women will marry and become mothers; 
and great pains havs been taken in many 
of the stakes of Zion, to prepare outlines for 
these lectures, and to make them valuable 
life lessons. It is ardently hoped by those 
who are striving to excel in good works, 
and to help others to do so, that through 
this the Relief Society will increase its 
membership and gain greater influence and 
popularity among the younger members of 
the Church, for the work assuredly devel-
ops the heart and soul. Christ himself, 
the Bible tells us, went about, doing good, 
administering comfort and consolation, al-
leviating the sorrows of humanity; He is 
our pattern, and we should devote and con-
secrate some of our precious time to help-
ing others; the needo, the sick, the unfor-
tunate. These duties strengthen our own 
best characteristics, and, as we come to 
know people in all conditions, we beget 
love in our own souls. We never do a 
kind deed with a pure motive, without a 
corresponding good to ourselves. We may 
not be aware of it, at the time, nevertheless 
it is true; the service we give to our neigh-
bors, to help them along life's rough places, 
or, lead them back, when they have stray-
ed from the right path, is helping us to 
reach that higher plane, to "love our neigh-
bor as ourself," and to apply the golden 
rule. This active assistance of the poor 
and the sick, belongs to the duties of every 
woman of means, and, in an organized 
capacity, much more can be accomplished, 
than by individual doing or giving. Besides, 
women thus associated, lift and develop
each other, by mutual attraction, and, by 
the exercise of that spirit, which actuates 
them in doing good. They grow in ex-
cellence in the better life; they live in the 
expression of higher thought, and nobler 
aims. 
Our older sisters see so much to be done, 
that they feel the younger women must 
come and learn of those things, by practical 
experience; they feel it deep down in their 
souls, for they appreciate what it has been 
to them. 
Faith as a principle, faith in God, faith 
in the Gospel, is increased and cultivated 
by labors of love, and works of benevolence. 
Genuine sympathy for the weak and erring, 
tends of itself to uplift and strengthen 
character, and, withal, to make the world 
better, by ministering in kindly deeds to 
those around us, in temporal as well as 
spiritual things. 
Guided and aided by the Holy Spirit, 
which prompts those who live right, and
listen to the still small voice within, one 
can do much that seems impossible without 
its support. Constant prayer, the prayer 
of the heart, is ever and always uplifting. 
In a society, such as ours, we stimulate 
each other; we learn to express our views 
and opinions, and, our sentiments, on all 
subjects that come before us, and we grow 
into favor with each other, and, into one-
ness. Our Savior said: "unless ye are one 
ye are not mine." We can never be one 
by keeping apart. It is by coming together 
under the influence of the Holy Spirit, that 
we will learn the best lessons of our lives. 

[Column 3]
If the young women of today, desire to 
build up strong characters for themselves
and their posterity; to improve the human 
family, by actual development of both brain 
and muscle, then they must take hold of 
the sober realities of life. 
"We are builders, and each one should 
cut and carve as best he can." 
Every member of the Relief Society is 
given opportunity to aid in the great work 
in which we are engaged, and the best re-
ligion is in doing; in true service. Success 
may not make much show, but, as truly as 
we serve the Lord faithfully, we shall 
reach a higher standard, and, if one give 
loving service to those in need, we shall be 
following in the Savior’s footsteps Think 
of His ministry, and, how little was then 
seen of its results; but how far-reaching 
they were, though unseen, then. We can-
not all do great things, but let us be con-
tent in the sphere we occupy, and be grate-
ful for the blessings vouchsafed to us In 
the days of prosperity, such as this people 
now enjoy, there should be great advance-
ment made, and the work of woman is 
needed. In building character, one needs 
to have the greatest activity, the utmost 
devotion, constant watchfulness, exercis-
ing mental and spiritual power, but, above 
all else, faith, for without it, one can do 
nothing acceptably. 
Paul, in his epistle to the Romans, gives 
many texts applicable in the sisters work 
in the Relief Society. "He that giveth let 
him do it with simplicity;" again, "Dis-
tributing to the necessity of saints; given 
to hospitality." "Be of the same mind 
one toward another. Be kindly affectioned
one to another, in honor professing one 
another."


ERRATTA.
	In the September issue of this paper, in
a copy of the letter which was sent with
the fac simile of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, to the schools and universities,
the word “heritage” was changed to “his-
tory,” which entirely destroyed the sense
of the idea the writer wished to convey.


NOTICE TO SECRETARIES.
Stake and mission secretaries in the Re
lief Society will please remember that the
year 1902 is drawing near its close, and
make ready to report the years’ work from
January 1, 1903, to December 31, 1903, so
that the General Secretary may be able to
make a complete report of all the stakes of
Zion and all the missions. The foreign
missions are requested to make correct re-
ports of every branch society within the
mission, Scandinavia, via Germany, Switz-
erland, Holland, Great Britain and Ireland,
New Zealand, Tasmania, Australia, Sand-
wich Islands and far-off Samoa. Address
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Templeton Building, Salt
Lake City.


HISTORY OF THE RELIEE SOCIETY.

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS.

(Continued,)

	In the last chapter we gave items of the
Relief Society in Huntville at an early date
in these valleys of the mountains. Here is
a sketch of East Bountiful, organization in
brief, presented by the secretary, Phebe C.


Sessons. We give this as a sample of the
work done in various parts of Utah and ad-
jacent territory at an early period while the
people were stauggling to establish homes
and comforts for themselves and those who
would gather here in the future.
	The first Relief Society was organized
April 24, 1846, by Bishop John Stoker and
his counselors, Anson Call and William
Atkinson.

RESOLUTIONS.

	We, the females of the North Canyon
Ward, whose names shall hereafter be at-
tached to this article, ever feeling a lively
duty in our Redeemer’s kingdom, and for
the general welfare of Zion’s cause, do mu-
tually unite ourselves together for the bene-
fit of the poor, and all other charitable pur-
poses wherein we can prove ourselves use-
ful to our fellow creatures. Under the
name of the Female Relief Society of North
Canyon Ward.
	Whereas for the better organization of
our Society, would appoint the following
officers who shall hold their office during
the pleasure of said society.
	First a president who may choose two
counselors, a secretary who shall keep a
correct account of all the transactions of
said society; a treasurer who shall keep an
exact account of means that may be paid into
her hands, and also paid out and to whom.
And make a full report of receipts and ex-
penditures once in three months or oftener
if said society shall require it. And further
all laws and by-laws that shall be made for
the regulating of said society shall be in
force until repealed by said society. And
we in our united faith will ever pray that
the blessing of the Holy Spirit may ever
attend our every duty.
	Elizabeth Barlow was sustained as presi-
dent; Louisa Grant as first counselor; Han-
nah Hollbrook as second counselor; Phebe
C. Sessons as secretary; and Lucina Sessions
as treasurer.
	There were seventy-nine sisters became
members. We held fourteen meetings and
did a good deal of work for the poor. One
poorfamily received $60 68 in the short
time we held our meetings. On account of
the move South these meetings were dis-
continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WEDDINGS AND RECEPTIONS.
“Marriage is the life-long miracle,
The self-begetting wonder daily fresh.”

Thers’s an old saying that marriages
are made in heaven whether this be so or
not, we hope and believe the union of Fay
and Minnie will be as happy and as lasting
as though it really were all planned in the
celestial world.
The marriage ceremony which united
for time and all eternity La Fayette T.
Whitney and Minnie James was solemnized
in the Salt Lake Temple at high noon
Thursday, September 17, 1903.
In the evening a brilliant reception was
at the residence of the bride’s parents,
William and Minnie Horne James. The
bride was sweet and charming in her
simple white dress, with her spray of
lovely white roses, but she was no sweeter
than the young bridegroom, whose purity
of life and high ideals entitle him to be
loved and honored by all, and so this
young couple are equally matched, and for
their future we bespeak happiness and pros-
perity with rich experiences.

[Column 2]
The reception was literally crowded with
the many friends and relatives, and there
were presents galore, it would be quite
impossible to name them.
The most distinguished guest present was
the bride’s grandmother who looked as
fresh and happy as the younger women,
although she counts her years far beyond
four-score. May the new bride be as cele-
brated, when she shall be a witnees of her
granddaughter's marriage.
Mr. and Mrs. Whitney the newly-wedded
pair have a snug little cottage under the
brow of the hill just where they have
played together when happy children and
Bishop O. F. Whitney (brother of the bride-
groom) wrote for this special occasion,
“Chimes and Rhymes,’’ setting forth the
old-time sports when City Creek canyon
was different most of the merrie company
then assembled played thereabouts many
games and pranks. But Fay and Minnie
have their own neat little cottage where
the bride,
“Across the threshold led,
And every tear kissed off as soon as shed
His house she enters, there to be a light,
Shining within when all without is night;
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
Doubling his pleasures, and his cares dividing.”

The marriage ceremony that united Wil-
liam H. Foliaud and Grace Freeze was sol-
omnized in the Salt Lake Temple on Fri-
day, Nov. 6. 1903, by President John R.
Winder. The bride is the daughter of Hon.
James P. and Lillie T. Freeze, and is a
great favorite wherever she is known, the
young man is fortunate to secure so lovable
and charming a life-companion, not only
for this world but for eternity.
May their voyage through life be as free
from storms and adversities as it is possible
in gaining the experiences preparatory to
higher advancement hereafter.

“There’s a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
told,
When two. that are link’d in one heavenly tie.
With heart unchanging, and brow never cold.
Love on thro’ all ills, and love on till they die.”

But we would say love on thro’ all the
endless ages of the life to come.
A brilliant reception was held at the
bride’s home in the evening and all passed
off merrily, the bride in simple white aud
roses was sweet and charming and the
guests were joyous there were some very
beautiful songs sweetly sung by Miss
Emily Larson, and there was good cheer in
abundance and the congratulations and
good wishes for the young couple were
genuine in tone and sentiment if half of
them come to pass life will be to this bridal
pair one perfect holiday. God grant it may!
There were numerous gifts more than it
is possible to count or to mention, but the
gifts of love and friendship after all surpass
silver, or china, or rare ornaments of costly
value and these young people we are sure
deserve all the love and all the material
gifts that were showered upon them on that
memorable day.

“But happy they! the happiest of their kind!
When gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes and their beings blend!"


[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.

Saturday October 24, 1903, the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers met at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Dongall, Mrs. Isabel
M. W. Sears, first counselor in the chair in

[Column 2]
the absence of the President, Mrs. Alice
Merrill Horne; the program was carried
out as follows, after singing and prayer by
the Chaplain Mrs. Margaret P. Young.
Kirtland the first harvest written by Mrs.
I. M. W. Sears, was read by Mrs. Elizabeth
S. Wilcox, and was full of reminiscences
of Joseph the Prophet and of the early days,
and the men and women who laid the foun-
dation of the Church and recalled to mind
many incidents of that period of which so
little is known by our young people.
The hymn, “There’s a feast of fat things”
was sung by the ladies. Mrs. Edna L.
Smith and Mrs. Annie T. Hyde leading.
Elder Nathan Tanner a number of Zion’s
camp then gave from memory in a most
touching style a brief account of the won-
derful company, who went up to Missouri
to redeem Zion. Br. Tanner is now in his
80th year, when he went with Zion’s camp
he was a very young man of eighteen
years, he is the only surviving member of
that heroic band (so far as we know), they
are all gone now, and Br. Tanner alone
survives to tell the story of that remarkable
pilgrimage, one of the most trying and
thrilling in the history of the Church.
The Daughters were fortunate in getting
this personal recital from one who took
part in that memorable journey. The
hymn, “The Spirit of God like a Fire is
Burning,” was sung by the congregation,
and the benedictiou by the chaplain, and
the meeting adjourned for one month. 

Tuesday, November 24, 1903, the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers met at Mrs. Feramorz
Little’s residence, President Alice Merrill
Horne in the chair. Opening exercises
were followed by “Reminiscences from
private Journals” by the President, who
related some of the sad experiences of the
journey from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters
where so many of the Saints succumbed to
the hardships of those perilous times, and
were buried by the wayside, she mentioned
in this connection Sister Susannah Bigler,
mother of our General President of the
Relief Society, who died as a martyr to the
truth in Winter Quarters.
Sister B. W. Smith gave some of her own
experiences and acquaintance with those
who have figured so conspicuously in the
latter-day work. The incidents were very
thrilling and impressive.
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth read a
well written and instructive paper on
“Trials in Missouri,” and “The Prophet
in Chains,” incidents in which some of her
own progenitors participated and which are
almost too terrible to be told, unless one
had the heart of a lion. Mrs. Farnsworth
has an excellent voice, and gave many
points in her narrative in regard to the
sisters’ sufferings during that terrible
persecution. Mrs. John Q. Cannon related an
incident, in regard to the ignominious death
of Governor Ford of Illionis. Meeting was
favored with a solo, “Down by the River’s
Verdant Side,” by Miss Owen, accompanied
on the piano by Miss Clarissa Dougall.
Secretary Miss Lillian Horne read the
minutes which were approved, and meeting
adjourned to December 5, at Mrs. C. F.
Wilcox residence.


ANNUAL MEETING D. R.
Daughters of the Revolution State Society
met on Monday, November 16, 1903, at the
residence of Judge and Mrs. W. H. King,


Military Avenue, Salt Lake City, the
handsome parlor and library were adorned
with patriotic pictures and emblems and
stars and stripes were hung in the most
conspicuous places; flowers were artistically
arranged with exquisite taste and altogether
the entire effect was quite up to date
aesthetic. The Regent Mrs. Isabel M. W.
Sears presided, and after the opening exer-
cises and some miscellaneous business, and
an announcement of its being the annual
meeting, the paper of the day by Mrs.
Julia Farnsworth Lund on Paul Revere
was given. It was delightfully written and
graphic in style, and so feelingly read that
if Paul Revere himself had been present he
must have felt honored by the recital of his
deeds of valor and heroism.
Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne read most
pathetically “Panl Revere’s Ride,” by
Longfellow, and one could almost see the
the picture before them, so realistic was
the rendering of that magnificent poem.
The origin of Thanksgiving and descrip-
tion of the New England Thanksgiving
celebrations in early days, and in these
later times was given by Mrs E. B. Wells,
who knows what Thanksgiving means to
Puritanical New Englanders.
Little Miss Romola King gave some very
sweet selections on the piano. After the
close of the exercises a delightful hour
passed in enlivening conversation and the
daintiest refrishments were served in the
most artistic style, which of course added
to the genuine enjoyment of the occasion.
The ice cream in an original design the
head of GeorgeWashington, and his hatchet,
the hostess was profusely complimented on
her originality. Besides the members
present then were several distinguished
guests. Mesdames F. M. Lyman, B. W.
Smith, Reed Smoot. A. H. Talbot and
niece, David Evans, Hanson and others.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
'Blessed, are the dead who die in the Lord,’

	It becomes our sad duty to record the death of
a beloved sister who departed this life Sept. 30th
1903, in Weston, Idaho. Sister Ida Margarett
Jensen; the beloved wife of Elder Hyrum Jensen,
she was born at Weston. February 25th, 1874, and
has always been a faithful Latter-day Saint; when
taken ill with typhoid fever two weeks previous to
her death, her husband was filling a mission in the
North Western States, he was summond home,
and was at her bedside when she passed, to the
great beyond. All that loving hands could do was
done, but it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
remove our dear Sister to a higher sphere. She
leaves a devoted husband and six children to
mourn her loss, the loss of a faithful mother and a
wife. Let us do all we can to heal the wounds of
those who survive her, by deeds of love and kind-
ness, that her children and husband, may they
ever have her example before them that they may
grow in grace and be worthy to meet her in the
life beyond the grave, is the earnest desire of the
members of the Weston Relief Society.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Where as our Heavenly Father in his Wisdom,
has seen fit to remove our Sister Ida Margarett
Jensen from our midst, be it
	Resolved, That while we grieve to lose her and
we mourn with the bereaved husband and relatives,
we feel to bow in humble submission to the will of
our Father in Heaven and say thy will be done.
	Resolved, That we realize in her death, the loss
of a true friend and co-laborer in the Weston Ward
Relief Society.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be entered in
the Relief Society records a copy be presented to
the bereaved husband and one printed in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

ELIZABETH H. CLARK, Pres.,
AMELIA HOOPES, Asst. Sec.
	Committee,


[Column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.

KANAB STAKE.

Lecture I—The first great command: 

Womans first mission to bear child- 
dren, be fruitful, multiply and replen-
ish the earth, a helpmate and compan-
ion.

Lecture II-—Home Rule:

 (a) The husband and father honored.
(b) Love and confidence established.
(c) Parents be what you expect your
children to be. (d) The rights of all
respected.

Lecture III.—The preparation of motherhood:

(a) The thoughts and acts of the
mother, reproduced in the child. (b)
The necessity of home environments
being pleasant and agreeable.

Lecture IV.— The care and training of the
child:

(a) Physical—a healthy body. (b)
Moral. (c) Temporal. (d) Spiritual.

Lecture V.—Home Culture:

(a) Home best place on earth. (b)
Cultivate a love for home. (c) Polite-
ness and proper respect. (d) The re-
sult of over indulgence, and dhe result
of self sacrifice

“Make home beautiful,
Make home pleasant,
Emblem of that home above.”

Lecture VI.—Home Culture, continued:

(a) Industry and economy, (b) Par-
ents know where your children are.
(c) The company they keep: the books
they read. (d) Parents to accompany
children to places of amusement.

Lecture VII.—Home Culture:

(a) Have confidence in the child;
love and trust them. (b) Get their
confidence and love, and keep it. (c)
Respect for old age.

Lecture VIII—The effect of early training in
the Gospel, by example as well as precept:

(a) Respect for the Priesthood and
reverence for sacred things. (b) Ob-
servance of the Sabbath day. (c) Pay-
ing of tithes, and offerings.

Lecture IX.—Transition from childhood to 
maidenhood and boyhood:

(a) Care of health. (b) Clothing.
(c) Suitable books and companions.


Lecture X.—Hygiene in the home:

(a) Diet; food, and preparation. (b)
Ventilation. (c) Cleanliness. (d) Ex-
ercise.

Lecture XI.— Word of Wisdom:

(a) The result of obeying the word
of wisdom in the home. (b) The re-
sult of non-observance.

Lecture XII.—Courtship, and Marriage:

(a) Proper method of courtship; do

[Column 2]
not keep late hours. (b) Marry those
of your own faith. (c) Be guided by
the Spirit of the Lord,

ARTEMISSISA SEEGMILLER, Pres.
PERRIS SPENCER, Secretary.


TETON STAKE.

Lecture I. —Necessity of Marriage.

Ref.—Genesis 2: 18 and 24th verses.
Doc. and Cov. Sec. 131 verses 1, 2, 3,
4.
(a) Choice of suitable companions.
(b) Make it a matter of prayer.
Ref. Jos. E. Taylor Improvement
Era April 1903. (Love and betrothals)
also courtship and marriage by Jos. E.
Taylor. Era. May 1903

Lecture II.—Eternal Marriage.

(a) Fate of those not married for
eternity. Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132.
(b) Advantages of children born under
the Covenant. Talmage’s Articles of faith,
Page 452, 22d verse.

Lecture III.—Laws of marriage.

Ye kindred spirits filled with mutual love, 
Pure as the dews descending from above.
All hail! for you the sacred keys are given. 
To make you one on earth and one in heaven,
Be fruitful then, and let your race extend
Fill earth, the stars, and worlds that never end.
	Ref. Genesis Ch. 1. 28th verse. Tal-
	mage’s Articles of Faith pages 455-
460.

Lecture IV.— The Young Wife.

Domestic joy thou only bliss of Paradise tha
hath survived the fall.
		1. Let prayer be your watchword.
2. Duties to husband, love, kindness,
	to husband, consideration. 3. Care of
	home the first consideratiu. 4. So-
	manage your home duties that they will
	not conflict. Cleanliness in all respects
	and ventilation of sleeping appartments
	indespensable.

Lecture V.— The Prospective Mother.

Health, the first consideration and how to ob
tain it. Dispense with fashionable clothing. Take
healthful exercise. Eat in moderation. 
“The first right of a child is to he well born. 
The mother in her high office holds the key of
the soul; and she it is who stamps the coin of char-
acter and makes the being who would be a savage,
but for her gentle care a Christian.

Lecture VI.— The Young Mother.

Ah! what would the world be to us
if children were no more? 
We should dread the desert behind us 
Worse than the dark before.
How secure health for baby: Clean-
liness, Warm light clothing, Ventila-
tion, Proper nourishment.

How secure perfect body: Let the
babies creep to strengthen limbs. Pre-
vent them from standing too early,
causing bow legs and other deformi-
ties. Remember the bones of babies are
soft and pliable.

Lecture VII.—Home Training For Child-
ren.

1. Make your action, worthy of imi-
tation. 2. Teach them to pray as soon 
as they can lisp the words. 3. Instil
into their minds, truthfulness, honesty,


obedience, illustrating same with Bible
	and moral stories. 4. Early teaching in
	the principles of the Gospel and the
	early history of the Church.

Lecture VIII.—Home training of our boys
	and girls.

How win their love.
	(a) By being kind, yet firm, (b) By
	requiring them to assist in all our
	labors. (c) By bestowing deserved
	praise.

How make good Latter Day Saints.
	(a).Teach the necessity of prayer, (b)
	Encourage them to attend Sunday
	School and Primary. (c) Teach obed-
	ience as the first law of heaven. (d)
	Respect for proper authoity. (e) Hon-
	or the aged. (f) Choose good books
	and good companions.

Lecture IX— Moral training for young
	people.

Spiritual needs:
		Reverence for God and his servants.
	Encouragement to attend Mutual Im-
	provement associations.

Moral needs:
		(a) Make perfect confidents of your
	children. (b) Personal purity, plain
	talks to boys. (c) Pure thoughts and
	actions. (d) Avoid profanity and vul-
	garity. (e) Avoid too much familiar-
	ity with the opposite sex.
"Familiarity breeds contempt.”

Physical needs: 
(a) Cleanliness and proper exercise,
	(b) Preparation for puberty.

Lecture X—Home Amusements.

		(a) Pleasant surroundings. (b) Flow-
ers. (c) Good pictures. (d) Sunshine
	warmth, brightness. 
Entertainments.
(a) Good literature. (b) Music. (c).
	Instructive games. (d) Home socials

Lecture II—Woman's work

How made easy
		(a) Order and system by planning
work.(b) Conveniences in the kitch-
	en: flour, sugar, salt, etc., all handy.
	(c) Proper height of tables. (d) Save
	unnecessary standing by sitting down
	to iron, clean vegetables, wipe dishes,
	etc. (e) Provide soft rug to stand up-
	on. (f) Save strength for other im-
	portant duties.

Lecture XII— Womanhood and Motherhood.

Sophia Rigby Pres.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
__________

R. S. REPORTS

EMERY STAKE.

	The Stake Relief Society conference was 
held in Castle Dale on Saturday, May 13,
1903, President Mary A. Sorensen presid-
ing.
	President Sorensen congratulated the
society on the good attendance. President
R. G. Miller, Counselor Mathis and Mrs.

[Column 2]
A. T. Hyde, Mrs. Jos. F. Smith, and Mrs
L. L. Greene Richards, all of Salt Lake
City, spoke, referring to the buildings and
granaries belonging to the society, and also
of the Mothers’ Work and Nursing Class
about to be introduced in the Relief Society.
	Nine of the wards were represented, each
reported in good condition
	Sister M. T. Smith stated that the Relief
Society stands as the mother of all other
Church associations, being the oldest organ-
ization, and caring for those in distress,
whether they are members or not.
	President R. G Miller thought the mem-
bers were setting their brethren a good ex-
ample. He informed the society upon what
was being done at Wellington in the way
of building granaries.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, first counselor to
President Bathsheba W. Smith, spoke upon
punctuality, prayer, directing aright the
energies of the children, sto[-]ing grain and
caring for the same.
	Afternoon meeting the general board and
stake officers were presented and sustained.
	Patriarch F. W. Young spoke upon the
great work done by the Relief Society, the
influence of mothers and kindness.
	Stake Counselor Mary J. King reported
her visit through the south end of the stake
and finding all in good working order.
	Sister L. L. G. Richards, of Salt Lake
City, congratulated President Miller upon
the organization here, and felt pleased to
see such general unity.
	Counselor Mathis and Aunt Jane Wood-
ward also spoke, the latter of knowing the
Prophet Joseph Smith and living to see
many of his prophecies fulfilled.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde read instructions
from President Bathsheba W. Smith, urg-
ing the keeping of children off the streets
at night, and being careful of each other’s
reputations.
	President Sorensen reported the work
done since last conference, urged the young
ladies to join the society and thanked all
those who had contributed to the success of
the present conference.
	After the adjournment an officers’ meet-
ing was held.

____

DAVIS STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake was held in Farmington in the meet-
ing house July 30, 1903, President Susan
Grant presiding. On the stand were Gen-
eral President Bathsheba W. Smith and her
first counselor, Annie T. Hyde, also Presi-
dent John W. Hess and counselors. After
the opening exercises President Grant stated
that she felt honored by the presence of
Sister Bathsheba and Sister Hyde, aslo by
the stake presidency attending the confer-
ence, she felt thankful for the love and es-
teem of the brethren and sisters. Reports
of good work were given from all the branch-
er in the stake except two.
	President B. W. Smith spoke briefly up-
on the reports, expressed her pleasure in
being present and referred to the mother’s
work, that it should be under the Relief So-
ciety and belong to it, stated, “I was present
when the Relief Society was first organized
and think I am the only one living that was
there. I know Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of God and that he taught the prin-
ciple of plural marriage.” Sister Smith bore
a strong testimony of this."
President J. W. Hess said "I am de-
lighted with this conference and that we

[Column 3]
have our beloved Sister Bathsheba with us
who was intimately acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph. I want you to know her
words are true and may we profit by them. I
am full of the spirit to bless every body and
to bless my sisters who are laboring in the
Relief Society and we appreciate your labors
and may the Lord bless us all Amen.”
	Counselor Jane Holt in behalf of the
officers, of the society, of Davis Stake pre-
sented President Grant with, a handsome fur,
Counselor Mary S. Clarke placing it on her
shoulders, it was given in honor of her
seventy-first birthday anniversary. The
sisters of Farmington had prepared a sump-
tuous dinner for all in the vestry, 174 sat
down to partake of the bounteous repast.
The banquet was in honer of Sister Susan
Grant and also Sister Helen Miller, as it was
her birthday. Afternoon session, after the
usual exercises was addressed by Counselor
Annie T. Hyde who rejoiced in the celebra-
tion of Sister Grant’s birthday and was also
glad to hear Sister Bathsheba give instances
of the Prophet's life; there are few remain-
ing now that can testify to these things, felt
we should teach our children these truths;
we should take special care in training our
children and give liberally to the poor.
	President Bathsheba Smith read some
notes from Sister Eliza R. Snow's minutes
of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and told of
many instances in the Prophet’s life and
said, “Let us be sure and have the principle
of eternal life dwelling in our bosoms. May
the Lord bless us all.” President Susan
Grant expressed in endearing terms her ap-
preciation of the sisters love and gifts: she
had visited every society in the stake and
found union in their midst. Counselor
Hyrum Grant appreciated the honor shown
his mother and was glad to hear Sister
Bathsheba Smith say she was satisfied with
her labors. Conference adjourned for three
months.
PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.

____

BEAR LAKE STAKE

	Minutes of annual conference held in the
Bear Lake Stake Tabernacle, July 12, 1903.
	Officers meeting, 10 a. m., where all the
wards were represented, twenty-three in
number, it being the first time that we had
a full report since the Relief Society was
organized in a Stake capacity.
	At 2 p. m., President J. P. Lindsay pre-
siding. Conference began with singing and
prayer. Minutes of last conference read
and approved.
	Sister J. P. Lindsay said if we only put
ourselves in a position we can enjoy every
blessing that is possible to be obtained, we
should each one of us know for ourselves
that this is the true work of God. Was
pleased to meet the sisters from Salt Lake
City and to have their valuable instructions. 
“We have a great mission before us. I
know this to be the true church and
kingdom of God.” Prayed the Lord to
bless and inspire the speakers with His
Holy Spirit. God bless us. Amen. 
Sister Stevenson explained the work of
the Relief Society. Spoke of peace, and
how it should commence in our homes, also
in all our associations. Wished to deliver
Sister B. W. Smith’s message of love to all
the sisters of this Stake. Said we should 
exercise faith and not forget the Lord. The
sisters are "angels of mercy.” Teach our
children faith and instil in their hearts love


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
and charity, also to read good books and
study the Word of Wisdom.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder read a letter re-
lating to mothers’ work, which told us that
we must especially look after our young
people, their morals, how can this be ac-
complished? Teach them to aim for some-
thing great and cultivate higher things in
life. To watch our boys and keep them
home after night fall, also our girls. Should
teach our children to pray for the presi-
dency; to respect those in authority; to
keep the Sabbath day holy; avoid evil in
every respect; attend Sabbath School; be
neat and tidy, and observe all that is good.
Related some instances of her mission and
her feelings after getting her release. “May
the Lord bless us with His Spirit.’’
	Brother William Rich spoke of his moth-
er’s anxiety over him, and following him
about to know what company he was
in, but could understand it now. Spoke
of a mother’s influence and of evil associa-
tions. It is essential to take care of
our children. “May the Lord bless us,
Amen.’’
	Financial and statistical report read and
approved.
	Conference adjourned till half past six in
the First Ward meeting house. Singing.
Benediction by Sister A. Hoge.
	Afternoon session, President J P. Lind-
say presiding. Opened by singing, “High
on the mountain tops.” Prayer by Brother
Stucki. Hymn, “Though deepening trials. ”
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said while the last
hymn was being sung, pictures of England
passed through her mind, of green fields,
buttercups and daisies, and the times when
they would sing and hold meetings on the
streets. Spoke of the different incidents
that happened in her experience while on
her mission. We are now in a state that
we may become exalted if we live the life
that we should, everything is in a state of
progression. How far we would be behind
if we perchance made a failure of life.
	Sister Stevenson said while listening to
the former speaker thoughts passed through
her mind of the settlement of this country.
Do the young people that have comfortable
homes appreciate the blessing of their sur-
roundings? “Young mothers be proud of
your mission, remember that each child that
you rear is a jewel in your crown.”
	Sister Nancy Pugmire said what a pity
that mothers and wives did not fill the
Tabernacle. Felt that there was a spirit
of awakening, it is time. “I do not think
any other remarks could have been more
timely than what we have heard this even-
ing. There is an affection grown in all our
hearts towards the sisters. “May God bless
us all. Amen.”
	Sister Lindsay was very pleased and
thankful for the beautiful instructions we
had received from the sisters. Thought
there was a disregard shown for the Gos-
pel, we had better wake up or the Lord
would wake us rather roughly. “May the
Lord bless us all. Amen.”
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by Sister Mary Bagley.
					LOUISE TUELLER Cor. Sec.

[Column 2]
		CACHE STAKE.

	The Relief Society conference of Cache
Stake was held in Logan, August 18, 1903,
President Lucy S. Cardon presiding. After
the usual opening exercises came the verbal
reports.
	Counselor Rebecca Eames reported the
First Ward of Logan; Margaret Ballard, the
Second Ward of Logan; Julia A. Stewart,
Sixth Ward.
	These reports were excellent and very
encouraging.
	President Cardon then introduced Sister
Sarah J. Cannon, of the General Board,
who made a fine address, touching upon all
the important matters in connection with
Relief Society work, home influence, man
agement of children, example and practise
of virtue; felt the sisters who had reported
had the right idea of the Mothers’ Work.
Said, “We are instructed by our president
to encourage the mothers to look after the
children, and if they do this they will not
be responsible if they fail to carry out their
teachings.” Sister Cannon spoke on many
other good subjects.
	Sisters Susan Smith, of Greenville, Chris-
tina Tyre, of Providence, and Sister Lind-
love, of the Seventh Ward of Logan,
each gave fine reports.
	President Jane S. Richards, of Weber
Stake, then addressed the conference “I
have passed through many trials in my life
that I did not choose, but I hope that I,
with you, my sisters, have accepted of
these trials, then we shall be blest, the Lord
will have a tried people, and we can endure
for the blessings.” She spoke of donating,
said it is a blessing to give and related some
of the early experiences of pioneering. Bore
her testimony to baptism in obedience to
the Savior. “We are living in the last
days, and the signs predicted are upon us.
Let us impress our children with a testi-
mony of the Gospel.”
	Afternoon session: After the usual exer-
cises, the general officers of the society were
sustained by vote of the conference.
	Sisters Laura Mickleson, of the Fourth
Ward, Sister Larson of the Third Ward,
and Kinnie Caine, of the Fifth Ward, all
gave excellent reports, also representatives
from Benson and Hyde Park reported.
	Sister Adeline H. Barber spoke briefly
and impressivly upon Relief Society work
and the silk interest. Felt grateful that
she had been able to do what she had in
these things; encouraged the mothers in
their labors with the children, knew their
reward would be greater than they antici-
pated. Rejoiced to hear Sister Richards re-
late her experiences of early days.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of neg-
lect of duty and how she condemned her-
self for spending time less profitably; com-
pared the times now with early days in the
Church, said let us be kind to the children
and prepare them for future work, for they
will have hard things to meet. “Twenty-
six years ago President Young organized us
in stakes as a Relief Society to have quart-
erly conferences, the thought to do this
grew out of an invitation I gave him to

[Column 3]
visit us in the Weber Stake and talk to the
sisters. Let us love each other, and never
entertain any hard feelings, the little things
in life avail us much.”
	Sister S. J. Cannon said, “I enjoyed the
sermon Brother Ballard gave us in his solo,
‘Sowing.’ ” She encouraged the sisters to
subscribe for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
also the storing of grain and urged the
teachers to be faithtul in the performance of
their duties, to be united and charitable one
to another; and teach your sons something
of Relief Society work, that when they go
upon missions and have to organize so-
cieties they will know what is needed; en-
courage a reserve fund if possible in each
society.
	Sister Ann Crookston bore a faithful tes-
timony and spoke beautifully of the work
of training the children.
	Bishop Thomas H. Smith said he had
many reflections during the meeting con-
trasting these times with early days. Spoke
feelingly to the mothers, referred to Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s words, “When you are in
company of the young people use good lan-
guage.” Instructed the mothers to train
their children to pay tithing.
	Counselor Isaac Smith endorsed what
had been said, thought the sisters meetings
the most spiritual ones we had; to him, the
position of a mother, was the grandest to
aspire to. Spoke especially of the remarks
of Sister Cannon, of instructing our boys
and having a little means on hand. Eulo-
gized Bishop Thomas Smith’s example be-
fore the people, felt we should give to all
such flowers while in life.
	President Cardon closed by saying, “Let
us be diligent in all good works, try and
increase our membership and profit by the
teachings of these sisters, Sister Richards,
over eighty years of age and her ripe exper-
iences.
	Conference adjourned.
					MARY E. SMITH, Sec.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah. 
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own 
	name, subject to their own order. Have 
	you such an account? If not, open 
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said 
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. I Main Street.


An organization to send out news and in-
formation on the Armenian question has
just been formed with Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe as president. Among the honorary
vice presidents are President W. F. Slocum
of Colorado College, Hon. Samuel J. Bar-
rows, National Prison Commissioner, Will-
iam Lloyd Garrison, and E. H. Clement,
editor of the Boston Transcript. The secre-
tary is I. C. Barrows, 20 Central Ave.,
Tompkinsville, Staten Island, N. Y.; the
treasurer, L. B. Moulton, 73 Tremont
Temple Boston, Room 1017.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

