Vol. 5, No. 4, Impt. Era.
	(d) Honor, refer to the fifth com-
mandment. That talents are gifts
from God, given to us undeveloped,
for us to improve and develop.
Prudent, cautious, self control is wisdom’s root.
---ROBERT BURNS.
(e) That marriage is ordained of
God unto man. (Ref., page 713, Vol.
5, No. 9, Impt. Era.)
Mine honor is my life, both grow in one,
Take honor from me and my life is done.
By MRS. B. O. MCINTIRE.
Ninth Talk.—Reverence.
	(a) True reverence, acceptable to
 God, is a filial fear; a reverence of
divine nature proceeding from a just
esteem of His perfections. Producing
in us an inclination to do His will and
serve Him.
	(b) We reverence superiors and age;
we honor authority; we love virtue.
	(c) We should revere our parents
with a submissive, humble spirit,
respecting and honoring them for the
many sacrifices they make lor us.
	(d) A wife should reverence her hus-
band. In chiding children for faults,
we should do it with love. Love
should govern the human heart.
	(e) Religion produces reverential
esteem for all sacred things. We
should revere the law of God and be
submissive to all the requirements.
(Ref. to all the above subjects: Im-
provement Era, Juvenile Instructor,
Young Woman's Journal, and The
Childrens' Faiend.

By MRS. B. O. MCINTIRE.

Tenth Talk.—Home Influences.
(a) Power for directing and modify-
ing.
	(b) A good home influence is made
by a congenial spirit, order, method,
kindly correction, good books, etc.
	(c) Entertainments:
(d) Happy effect of such influence.

By MRS. RUTH MCKEE.
Elevonth Talk.—Recreation for Children.
	(a) Childrens’ natural amusements.
Children are always finding out new
truths, and they are continually look-
ing for things that excite their curi-
osity.
	(b) Observe from nature what nat-
urally amuses the children.
	(c) Guide them in their amuse-
ments so that they are wholesome for
character building. In furnishing
recreation we should make an effort to
make home the most attractive place
on earth.
	(d) Children take delight in playing
what their parents are occupied in
doing for a livelihood.

Twelfth Talk.— Revision of Lectures.
Committee: Teenie Curtis, chairman;
Maria Allen, Secretary; Barbara O. Mc-
Intire, Ruth McKee, Ella S. Williams.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		PRESIDENT MARY ANN ELLIS.
	One great man has said: “The world knows
nothing of its greatest men and women.” How
truly can we all agree with this beautiful statement
when we reflect upon the life and works of our de-
parted sister and friend Mary Ann Ellis. How few
there are in this broad world who realize the worth
and good accomplished by our departed sister.
There are some people in this world whose names
may never be known beyond their family and mere
circle of friends, and yet, the silent but never pen-
etrating influence emiting from their noble lives
may be felt throughout a nation. It is such lives
as these that control that silent, but penetrating in-
fluence that moves this busy world onward and
bids the erring ones look upward.
	Sister Ellis was born in England on the 3rd of
October, 1822. While living in England she heard
the Gospel of Christ preached by Brother Heber C.
Kimball, and was very soon converted to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. With
the true pioneer spirit she was not content until
she wended her way towards the Rocky Mountains
and in the year of ’56 with a company of Saints
crossed the Plains, she herself pushing a hand cart,
and what was endured during those trying days,
only the Pioneers themselves can tell. She soon
after settled in Ogden where she has lived up to
the time of her death, July 28, 1903. In reviewing
the life of Sister Ellis we can not help but admire
and strive to emulate her fidelity and faithfulness
to the Relief Society of the Second Ecclesiastical
Ward of Ogden City, of which she was President
for over twenty-five years. Even the most negli-
gent member of the Society did not fail to look for
Grandma Ellis in her old accustomed place each
Thursday afternoon, and it is with some sorrow
that we gaze upon her vacant chair to-day, but
still we rejoice in the fact that she has gone to take
part in a more advanced association than ours.
	If you would know, in a measure, some of the
noble work accomplished by our sister, go to the
widows and the orphans in and about the county
of Weber, and there you will learn who it was that
came to them as a ministering angel in the time of
need, and not only administered to their temporal
wants but spiritual as well. No morning was ever
too cold or severe for her when she learned of a
brother or sister in need.
	In reviewing such lives as Sister Ellis we can-
not help but refer the influence of their noble lives
to the poets’ vase, in which: “You may break you
may shatter the vase if you will, But the scent of
the roses will cling to it still.”
						CORA WILSON,
						Second Ward, Ogden.
		ANNIE WALSER ROBINSON.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of one of our noble sisters of the Dublan Relief-
Society, Juarez Stake of Mexico.
	Sister Annie Robinson, wife of Bishop S. J.
Robinson, passed away April 2, 1903, after giving
birth to twins, leaving one little infant girl the
other one was taken with her.
	She was the worthy mother of six children, and
leaves a sorrowing father and mother, brothers
and sister, husband and four children to mourn
her loss.
	Sister Robinson was born October 9, 1870, in
Payson, Utah. Her life has been a noble example
from her childhood; she came to Mexico in the
year 1890, enduring the hardships incident to early
days here.
	She filled the position of Assistant Secretary in
the Relief Society since June 3, 1897, to the satis-
faction of all, and endeared herself to a host of
friends.
	The funeral was held in the meetinghouse April
3, being one of the largest funerals ever held here.
The speakers Pres. H. Pratt, Patriarchs Miles P.
Romney and Charles Pulsipher, Bishop’s Counse-
lors Jos. S. Cardon and A. B. Call.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved: That, as our heavenly Father in his
wisdom has seen fit to call home our Sister to a
better life, we the officers and members of the
Dublan Relief Society express our sincere sympathy
to the bereaved husband and family in their loss;

[Column 2]
feeling also, that they have been greatly blessed
with her wise and faithful example.
	Be it further:
	Resolved: that these resolutions be placed upon
our society-records, also a copy sent to the “Wo-
man’s Exponent” for publication.
						ELIZA A. TENNEY,
									President.
						JOSEPHA O. WRIGHT.
									Secretary.


BIOGRAPHY AND RESOLUTION.
	It becomes out painful duty to record the
death of our departed sister, Nancy Hollest,
who departed this life, at her home in
Lyman, Idaho, September 23, 1903. She
was born in Farmington, Utah. February
16, 1872. She was a great sufferer for
eleven days. She died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint. She attended a
Relief Society meeting three weeks before
she died, and bore a faithful testimony to
the goodness of God. She leaves a loving
husband and five small children to mourn
their loss.
	Resolution adopted by the officers and
members of the Lyman Relief Society, in
honor of our beloved sister, Nancy Hollest:
Whereas, our heavenly Father has called
from our midst a loving wife, a kind mother,
and a friend to all,
	Resolved, that we, the members of'the
Relief Society, emulate her noble traits of
character and her devotion to her religion;
that we herewith express our heartfelt
sympathy to her heart-broken husband and
her children, and her brothers and only
sister.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be placed
on file in the Lyman Relief Society record;
one sent to her beloved husband, and one to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for publication.
				DOT ATKINSON, Sec’y.


Mrs. Roosevelt is a very great-grand-
daughter of Jonathan Edwards, being di-
rectly descended from his eldest son. This
is one of the interesting facts brought out
by the Edwards centennial.
	Miss Clara Barton, “angel of many battle-
fields,” has recently been in Boston making
arrangements for extending the work of the
Red Cross. The fact that in the United
States every year more than 30,000 people
lose their lives by accident has stimulated
her to organize first - aid - to - the - injured
classes all over the country. The Boston
branch is to be the first one organized, be-
cause Massachusetts is Miss Barton’s native
State. Classes will be organized and per-
manent Red Cross brigades for volunteer
service in calamity or war.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Han o the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
