	Vol. 6, No. 7, page 511.)
		(d) Cleanliness in the home. (Ref.
	seventy-third annual conference, Apos-
	tle Reed Smoot.)
		(e) Family prayer, its influence in
	developing proper moral and spiritual
	tendencies in the new home (Ref. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 68. “Study well each
	thought and action that your lives may
	be sublime.”

Lecture III.—The Parents:

	“Go forth and multiply and replenish the
earth.”
		(a) Beginning and duration of par-
	ental responsibilities. (Ref. School and
	Fireside, (Maeser) page 50-53 Improve-
	ment Era, Vol. 6, “Parenthood” Jour-
	nal of Discourses, Vol. 1, page 106.)
		(b) Parental thoughts and actions.
	(Ref. Young Woman’s Journal, Vol. 12,
	No. 7, page 314.)
		(c) Form habits that you would like
	your child to follow.
		(d) Environments. (Ref. Gen xxx:
	25-43.)
		(e) Hope. Anticipation. Preparation.

[Column 2]
Lecture IV.—The Infant:

Care of the little one.
		(a) Bath, food, dress, sleep.
		(b) Creeping. Teething.

Lecture V.—Childhood

Building a healthy body. (Ref. “School
	and Fireside” (Maeser) chapter 4.)
		(a) Physically:—Outdoor exercise,
	work and play, food and sunshine.
		(b) Morally:—Example and its effect.
	(Ref. Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 37, No.
	10, page 593; Millennial Star, Vol. 15,
	No. 1, page—.) Mother the child’s
	first companion.

	Julia A. Richards, president; Eliza Hall,
first counselor; Eliza Ward, second counse-
lor Josie Kennard, secretary; Ella Capener,
treasurer—Committee Mothers’ Work, Ma-
lad Stake.

			DAVIS STAKE.
Lecture I.—Motherhood aud Maternity:—

“O wondrous power! how little understood—
	Entrusted to the mother’s mind alone,
To fashion genius, form the soul for good,
	Inspire a West or train a Washington.”
		(a) How can we best prepare for
	motherhood?
		(b) Observing the Word of Wisdom
	as essential to physical development.
		(c) The Gospel as essential to spirit-
	ual development.
		(d) The development of the mother
	as effecting the unborn child. How
	can we overcome hereditary weak-
	nesses?
		(e) What effect will obedience to the
	moral law have upon our offspring?
	(Refer to St. Matthew i: 24; also Heb. xii: 9;
Rev. 12: 7-17.)
		(f) How does child-bearing effect
	the Latter-day work?
		(g) How does it effect our exalta-
	tion?

Lecture II.—Pre-natal Influences:

	“A pebble in the streamlet scant.
		Has turned the course of many a river,
	A dewdrop on the infant plant.
		Has dwarfed the giant oak forever.”

		(a) How does the physical, moral
	and spiritual development of the moth-
	er effect the unborn child?
		(b) How should we dress during
	gestation?
		(c) Why is plain, nourishing food
	and regular, light exercise essential to
	mother and child?
		(d) What responsibility has the fath-
	er during this period?
		(e) How can he assist in the one
	great mission to be performed—that of
	bringing forth a perfectly developed
	and well-balanced child?
		(f) Compare the amount of character
	building the mother may do during
	this period to that that may be done
	later.

Lecture III—Proper Care of Mother and In-
	fant:

	“Something to live for has come to our place,
		Something to die for, may be;
	Something to give even sorrow a grace,
		A dear little innocent baby.”

		(a) What nourishment is best adap-

[Column 3]
	ted to the mother’s condition?
		(b) Why should she be kept quiet?
		(c) Why is proper care a vital ques-
	tion at this time? 
		(d) Discuss the proper way to give
	baby’s first bath, its clothing, bed and.
	food.
		(e) How does cleanliness promote
	health?
		(f) Why should a baby have its
	wants anticipated?
		(g) Why is it best to teach it to go
	to sleep naturally?
		(h) Give practical illustrations of the
	effect of habit upon the new born babe.
		(i) Discuss the nursing period and
	how it effects the child’s future life.
		(j) How should we care for the
	child during teething?
		(k) How and when shall we wean
	our babies?

Lecture IV.— The Infant Child and its Early
	Training:

“A little bit of patience often makes the sunshine
	come,
And a little bit of love makes a very happy home.”

		(a) In what order are the senses
	developed?
		(b) In what order are the emotions
	developed?
		(c) How can these developments be
	used in the early training of the child?
		(d) Of what value are play moments
	in a child’s life?
		(e) Discuss the motto, “learn by
	doing.”
		(f) How soon does a child have a
	moral sense?
		(g) Why is firmness so essential in
	the training of the child?
		(g) When and how may obedience
	be cultivated—unselfishness, gentle-
	ness, kindness and truthfulness?
		(i) What effect has the parent’s self-
	government upon the government of
	the child?
		(j) Of what value are the first three
	years of the child’s life in the building
	of his character.

Lecture V.—Obedience—Necessity of its
	Early Enforcement:

“O’er wayward childhood, wouldst thou hold firm
		rule,
	And sun thee in the light of happy faces,
Love, Hope and Patience—these must be thy
		graces.
	And in thine own heart let them first keep
		school,”

		(a) Why should the lesson of obed-
	ience be one of the foundation stones
	of character building?
		(b) How will this principle effect
	the life of a Latter-day Saint through
	time and all eternity?
		(c) How is it connected with our
	spiritual progress?
		(d) How should obedience be
	taught?
	(Refer to Eph. vi: 1-9; I Saml. xv: 22; Juvenile
Instructor June 15, 1903, page 371.)

Lecture VI.—Childhood and its Proper Direc-
	tion:

	“He who checks a child with terror,
		Stops its play and stills its song,
	Not alone commits an error;
		But a grievous moral wrong.”

		(a) How do both paren[-]s constantly
	teach morals good and bad to their
	children?


[Column 1]	
	(b) How does a child get his first
ideas of God’s love, truth and justice?
	(c) Can extravagance at home teach
dishonesty?
	(d) Should discourtesy to children
be the rule at home?
	(e) Why should children have set
tasks and light responsibilities within
the home?
	(f) When should a child be permitted
social life outside the family?
	(g( Does the judgment of a child
develop early? Should he rule in the
home?
(Refer to Doc. Cov. Sec. 68, 25 verse; Juvenile
Instructor July 1, 1903.)
Lecture VII.—Child's Place in the Home:
“Gather them close to your loving heart,
	Cradle them on your breast,
They will soon enough leave your brooding care,
Soon enough mount youth’s topmost stair,
	Little ones in the nest.”
	(a) Should each child have some
part in keeping up the home?
	(b) What effect has responsibility on
character?
	(c) What is the effect of not feeling
one’s self a necessary element in the
home?
	(d) Why should mother and child be
united, and their interests be one?
	(e) How far should the freedom of
the child extend within the home?
	(f) Why should a child’s rights be
determined by obedience to law?
(Refer to Doc. and Cov. Sec. 83, verse 4.)
Lecture VIII.—Necessity of Retaining the
	Child’s Confidence:
	“Oh, what a tangled web we weave,
	When first we practice to deceive.’’
	(a) Why should fear be avoided in
the government of the young?
	(b) Define faith in God (Doc. and
Cov.)
	(c) Define faith or confidence in
father and mother.
	(d) Why should a mother listen to
the child’s experiences of the day.
	(e) Explain the danger of practicing
deception in the governing of children.
	(f) How does a parent’s self-gov-
ernment strengthen the confidence of
the child?
Lecture IX.—Employment and Occupation of
	Our Children:
	“Work for some good, be it ever so slowly
	Labor! all labor is noble and holy.”
	(a) Why is activity so essential in
the young?
	(b) How and by whom should it be
directed?
	(c) Why is reading to and story tell-
ing beneficial in the training of the
child?
	(d) Why is the study of music bene-
ficial, and at what age should it begin?
	(e) When should the child be given
tasks to perform?
	(f) When should he share responsi-
bility?
	(g) Why are the idle moments of
danger to the child?
(Refer to Doc. and Cov., Sec. 42, verse 42.)
Lecture X.—Our Girls and Boys—the Fath-
ers and Mothers of the Next Generation:

[Column 2]
“Oh ! thou child of many prayers.
Life hath quicksands—life hath snares,
Care and age come unawares.”
	(a) What special teaching should
boy receive and when?
	(b) How should we teach our daugh-
ters?
	(c) Dwell upon the mission of both.
	(d) Should boys and girls be allowed
to associate together?
	(e) Show the evil effect of an excess
of social life to our boys and girls.
	(f) Also show the evils of late hours
to their physical; and moral develop-
ment.
	(g) In what way do our hopes cen-
ter upon our boys and girls?
Lecture XI.—The Law of Chastity:
“A mother’s holiest task is to keep
	Her darlings pure and true,
Her constant care, her watchful prayer.
	Alone can guide them through.'
	(a) Give the true definition of chas-
tity.
	(b) How and where can personal
purity and chastity best be taught?
	(c) How can we as mothers best
avoid impure thoughts within our chil-
dren?
	(d) How can the home influence
and conversation promote purity of
heart?
	(e) What are the effects of breaking
these laws among us as a people to-
day?
(Refer to Juvenile Instructor, November 15,
1902, page 688; Matt. v: 8)
Lecture XII.—Marriage— Object and Sacred-
	ness of:
	“And again I say unto you that who so forbid-
deth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage
is ordained of God unto man.” (Doc. and Cov.
Sec. 49, verse 15.)
	(a) What is the object of marriage?
(Gen. i: 28.)
	(b) How should we prepare for mar-
riage? (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132, 15-66
verses.)
	(c) What are the existing evils re-
garding this covenant today?
	(d) How can we as Latter-days best
overcome these evils?

Nellie C. Taylor, Wealthy R. Clark,
Athalia M. Stead, Maria Clark, Committee.
Susan Grant, President Relief Society Davis
Stake.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	It is a difficult task to outline in a few
paragraphs even the most important fea-
tures of a noble and useful life. The
real history must at best be left largely to
the imagination, we can only point out the
mile stones. The truest histories are re-
corded on the unwritten pages of life’s
annals, so we give but a faint glimpse of the
subject of this sketch.
	Dr. Shipp is the eldest daughter of Wil-
liam F. and Anna Reynolds, and was born
in Davis County, Iowa, January 20, 1847,
and came to Utah in her early childhood
with her parents, who settled in Pleasant
Grove, Utah County, where she was reared
a child of nature amid the wilds of our then
desert inland country, possessing few ad-
vantages of education, but her eager soul
thirsting for knowledge reached out beyond
all the meager possibilities of her girlhood,

[Column 2]
and she acquired an education enjoyed by
very few in those early days of toil and
hardship.
	On May 5th, 1866, she was married to
Milford B. Shipp, a man of learning and
intelligence, who at once recognized her
talents and marked out for her a literary
career. When the mother of five children,
and with the grand predominating charact-
eristic of motherhood thoroughly awakened
by a desire for the higher development of
her growing family, she bravely looked into
the new, and then unpopular sphere of la-
bor for women, and undertook the study of
medicine; having been a most devoted wife
and mother, it required a great effort to
leave her home and young children, but
realizing the benefits which must follow the
separation, not only to them and herself,
but to many others, she overcame her ten-
der longings for home and the hearthstone
for the good she might do, and in 1875
became the second woman in Utah attempt-
ing to master the seience of medicine and
entered the Woman’s Medical College of 
Pennsylvania.
	Dr. Shlpp has proved that the “tender-
est are the bravest.” While ardently en-
gaged in her studies at college she passed
through, with proud and faithful resigna-
tion, the hopeful and anxious period of
motherhood and gave birth to a beautiful
daughter, nor did the love and care for the
child hinder in any way the progress of the
mother’s studies, but on the contrary the
new joy but enhanced the pleasure of col-
lege life and practically relieved the lonely
heart, self-exiled from all other loved ones.
In 1888 Dr. Shipp not only obtained her de-
gree, but also received the highest compli-
ments and recommendations from the pro-
fessors, and ever since graduating has been
an undaunted, persistent worker in her pro-
fesssion, and is also very popular, especially
among her patients, for her beautiful sym-
pathetic bearing consoles the suffering one,
while her great self-control and dignity
gives one the most perfect confidence in her
ability.
	Possessing refined literary tastes she oc-
casionally rests her busy mind by reveling
in the pleasures of the Muses. At one
time she assisted her husband in the publi-
cation of a medical journal ‘‘The Sanitar-
ium,” and is at present engaged upon a
work designed especially for the benefit of
women. Her writings breathe of the spirit
of inspiration on grand and lofty themes and 
her poems especially are soulful, tender and
sweet. In all her busy professional and
literary duties she still finds time for social
duties and the cultivation of friendship, and
by numberless gentle acts demonstrates her
great capacity for loving and her just
claims for being loved. Her highly re-
ligious and intensely sympathetic soul nat-
urally calls her in the higher works for the
wider development of heart and brain and
the uplifting and comforting of God’s suf-
fering and sorrowing children. The ex-
qusitely sensitive and intellectual qualities
of her nature shine through the beautiful,
womanly features with refined and quiet
force that is irresistible. For her children,
now ten in number, have her most heroic
sacrifices been made and her wonderful
mother love has been the main inspiration
to all achievements, as it is the crowning
glory of her beautiful, unslfish and exem- 
plary life.
						LILLIE FREEZE.  
	SALT LAKE CITY, May 15, 1893.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
		STAR VALLEY STAKE.
	Conference held at Afton Ward meeting
house, July 20, 1903, President Alice J.
Call presiding. Opened with the usual
exercises. The reports showed that the
ward organizations were up to date in good,
practical service.
	The conference was noted for its many
distinguished visitors, among whom were
Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff, President
Frank Y. Taylor of the Granite Stake of
Zion, Sisters E. J. Stevenson and L. D.
Alder, sent by the General Board.
	President Call said she wished to be brief
in her remarks, as we were anxious to hear
from our visitors, as we have seldom been
so honored. She introduced Sister Steven-
son, who said:
	“Before I proceed farther let me give to
you the love of Sister Smith and Sister
Wells.” Spoke of the Mothers’ Work, en-
couraged the Relief Society teachers to seek
the Spirit of the Lord. Spoke of the great
responsibility of the mothers in looking
after the morals of the young and of the
folly of following the frivolous fashions of
the world.
	Sister Annie Hood then sang in her 
usual sweet tone, “Joseph Smith’s First
Prayer.”
	Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff said: “I
have been very much pleased with the re-
marks and also with the beautiful song we
have listened to. We do not expect good
boys if we do not have good mothers. Your
aims should be to become ideal wives and
mothers.
	President Frank Y. Taylor encouraged
the sisters to look after the poor and those
in need. 
	Afternoon session: Sister Alder spoke of
the Mothers’ Work and that the happiest
time in our lives is when our little ones are
clinging about our knees.
	The remainder of the reports were given.
Closing prayer, Sister Sarah A. Burton.
			ANNIEBEL Y. HILL, Sec.
			MALAD STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society was held
in Malad City, Idaho, June 11, 1903, Presi-
dent Julia A. Richards presiding. Visitors
from General Board, Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams, one of the general officers of the
society, and Hattie B. Harker, missionary.
	Samaria, St. John’s, Pleasant View,
Malad and Riverside reported as doing well.
	Sister H. B. Harker spoke upon the
Mothers’ Work, secret prayer as a strong
support, urged the study of the children.
	Sister C. S. Williams said we read each
others’ hearts by an inward gift, expression
gives comfort, let our words be in line with
the priesthood; we are promised strength to
overcome our weaknesses, the Lord has a
work for all willing hearts to perform.
	Elvira A. Harrison related a testimony
given to Sister Eliza R. Snow in the Logan 
Temple, Sister Mary A. Bolingbrolee spoke
upon cheerfulness, activity and experience,

[Column 2]
President J. A. Richards made closing re-
marks and bore testimony to the good spirit
of the meeting.
	Afternoon session: First, after the usual
opening exercises and transaction of busi-
ness pertaining to the society, Sister Alice
A. Smith was released as first counselor to
the president, and Sister Eliza Hall released
as stake secretary and Sister Jeannette Per-
kins as stake treasurer. Officers of the
General Relief Society sustained by vote of
the conference, then the stake officers, Julia
A. Richards, President; Eliza Hall, first
counselor; Eliza Ward, second counselor;
Joanna L. Kennard, secretary; Ella S.
Capener, treasurer. Voting unanimous.
	Sister Williams presented greetings from
President Bathsheba W. Smith, of love to
all, said her heart is full of charity for all
the sisters. 'Our first duty is to take care
of home and family, but there is time for
our spiritual talents to grow and broaden.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards: “Today
we are enjoying the hard labors of our par-
ents. There was a divine power in bring-
ing them here.” Spoke along the line of
instructions given in the Doctrine and
Covenants.
	Sister Harker: “Faith in God gives us
force to improve our talents, wisdom guides
us in the path of safety, love and charity
brings sunshine unto all.”
	Bishop Price and Brother Jones of Sa-
maria each bore testimony to the truth of
the words spoken, and encouraged the sis-
ters to persevere.
	President Richards: “Let us try and put
in practice the teachings given; let improve-
ment be our motto.”
	Conference adjourned with singing and
prayer. The visiting sisters and stake
officers afterwards held meetings at Portage
and Riverside, giving general instructions;
a good spirit was manifest in all.
			JOSIE RENNARD, Sec.

		ALPINE STAKE.
	The tenth quarterly conference of the
Alpine Stake was held at Lehi, July 30,
1903, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and Sister Carrie
S. Thomas, of the general board were pres-
ent. President Rebecca Standring presiding.
After the opening exercises, President
Standring made a few appropriate remarks
and called for reports from the several
President’s in the Stake. Reports were
very encouraging, every society being
represented, love, unity and harmony pre-
vailing. Sister Carrie S. Thomas, spoke of
many things, in reference to mothers work,
she said, it is no new work, our teachers
have taught us these things all the time.
	Our daughters need not be without these
teachings if we have missed them. Sister
Thomas spoke upon faith and the confidence
we have in our religion and in our Heavenly
Father. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp had many
happy recollections of Lehi and her youth-
ful days passed near there, but then there
were no such gatherings as we have now,
exhorted the sisters to have the young
women join the Relief Society and aid in

[Column 3]
the work; the education of the Gospel
brings out the best points in our character:
and makes us better wives and mothers.
	Afternoon session. Connselor Harriet
Jacobs addressed the conference, dwelling
upon the testimony, of the truth and the
divine mission of the Prophet Joseph, re-
ferred to the Saints in California and the
good work being done there by our people;
reminded the sisters it was time to be gath-
ering the wheat, and of the necessity of
taking the WOMAN'S EXPONENT; it was a
valuable paper and the sisters should sup-
port it. Sister Shipp said, what would the
world have thought a hundred years ago to
see this great body of women assembled
and transacting business, bringing out the
spiritual and intellectual abilities and tal-
ents? It is grand that we have this great
change; urged the sisters to take the EX-
PONENT, felt it was necessary to their de-
velopment; dwelt earnestly upon home in-
fluence and attractions, good books and
music, order and obedience, and in fact
mentioned every good thing and all that
would tend to a fuller and more complete
life here and hereafter. Sister Thomas
thought the girls should thank the Lord
every day for this society and the associa-
tions and opportunites we have to obtain
knowledge, she pleaded earnestly with the
sisters to take the EXPONENT; spoke beauti-
fully concerning the training of children
and of retaining their confidence.
	President Stephen L. Chipman endorsed
the remarks of the sisters, their words had 
been in due season, the presidency of the
stake fully appreciated the labors of the
Relief Society and the willing sacrifices
these sisters made. President James H.
Clarke, felt parents were much to blame in
the training of the children; these subjects
could not be dwelt upon too seriously,
thought the meeting had been profitable,
we should seek the spirit of God to aid us
in all our labors in life. Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
					R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
OBSTETRICS and NURSING.
DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics and Nursing on Monday, October 12,
1903. For further information enquire of
Dr. Roberts, 77 C Street.		Tel.2002.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. Main Street,


[Handwritten in pen: "Kane Relief socity"]

								Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

