[Vol30 | April 1943 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Women and The Home Today Lyman]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAPRIL 1943
All will agree that the first and most important duty of women is to keep the homes intact and the families together. 'The home, the basic institution of society, must be preserved. Not only should homes be kept intact for the sake of those left in the home, but also for the sake of the boys and men who are at the front. We are reminded constantly by military leaders that, from the military standpoint, homes should be properly maintained; that they are and will remain the greatest inspiration to the men in the service. Home is their chief topic of conversation. Then, as the givers and the guardians of life, it is the task of women in the midst of any and all exigencies and emergencies to bring up the generation of tomorrow. This is always a great responsibility for women, and especially so when they have to carry this burden alone. To the woman with young children, children of the ages requiring continual care and supervision, surely her first duty is toward them. This is her most important work, and the greatest contribution any mother can make to the world, either in time of peace or in time of war. It is especially important today that children be brought up in well-regulated homes, homes that run smoothly, homes where good standards, are maintained. System and regularity are the best preventives of emotional difficulties which often result, later on, in behavior problems, and juvenile delinquency. In all homes, and in all the adjustments which every home and family will have to make, children should receive full consideration.
WOMEN AND THE HOME TODAY
From the viewpoint of the Latterday Saints, the family is a sacred and holy institution and family life is the most important of all human relationships.
This conclusion is based upon their belief in the pre-existence of man, in a life beyond the grave, in the immortality of the spirit, and in the eternal and everlasting union of husbands and wives and of parents and children. Latter-day Saints - believe that "marriage is ordained of God...
That the earth might answer the end of its creation; And that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his creation before the world was made" (Doc. And Cov. 49:15-17); we believe and teach that marriage is a holy sacrament as well as a legal union, and that when marriage is consummated by proper authority in the House of the Lord it is "for time and for all eternity." In the standards and plans for the Latter-day Saint home and for home life, children should be given the first consideration.
Their health is to be guarded and careful provision is to be made for their schooling, their leisure, and their spiritual welfare.
Rarely can a family be found in the Church in which the parents are not willing to make real sacrifices to educate their children, provide suitable recreation for them, and build up in them faith and such a love for the Gospel of the Master that these children, without financial remuneration, serve gladly as missionaries to spread the "glad tidings."
Belief in the immortality of the spirit affects all reactions in the Latter-day Saint home.
When parents 239 look into the faces of their little children, believing that their spirits are immortal, that they will go on and progress eternally, there comes into the souls of parents a feeling of reverence for the life and personality of these little ones whom God has entrusted to their care; and parents are willing to forego personal pleasure, even endure severe trials, rather than to deprive these children of normal home life, or of whatever else may be necessary for their proper growth and development.
Church members were greatly impressed by the message of the First Presidency of the Church given last October, in which they called attention to the duties and responsibilities of parents regarding their children. It has caused us all to pause and to review again our standards and ideals, our manner of living, and our obligations as parents and Church auxiliary workers. I will close these remarks with some quotations from this great message: By bringing these choice spirits to earth, each father and each mother assumes towards the tabernacled spirit and towards the Lord Himself... An obligation of the most sacred kind, because the fate of that spirit in the eternities to come, the blessings or punishments which shall await it in the hereafter, depend, in great part, upon the care, the teachings, the training which the parents shall give to that spirit. No parent can escape that obligation and that responsiblility, and for the proper meeting thereof, the Lord will hold us to a strict accountability. No loftier duty than this can be assumed by mortals.
