[Vol30 | April 1943 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Unemployed Clothing Jensen]

Unemployed Clothing Called Into Service Leda T. Jensen Member of Relief Society General Board REMODELING means to again or to rearrange. To the woman trained to "waste not want not," who is skillful with her fingers and the tools of sewing, the word remodeling is a fascinating one, setting up in her mind all sorts of ideas for the creating of useful and lovely articles of wearing apparel from used material which would otherwise be often wasted. To all too many women the word has little or no meaning, and only calls to mind an undesirable problem in which she has and wants no part. The whole world is at war. No one can say when peace will be established again, nor what the conditions will be when the clouds of war have cleared away. We are, however, becoming increasingly mindful of the fact that the problems of the present conflict are touching our lives more and more, disrupting our living routine, and our method of doing things. We hear on all sides the words conservation, salvaging, saving. 'The home is called the second front, and women in the home are urged to accept the challenge to do their part in various ways to help win the war.
Because commodities of all kinds are flowing into army camps and Page 20 being sent to battlefronts and the United Nations in all part of he world, consumers are finding their purchasing of goods of all kinds greatly limited.
Clothing the family is a problem vital to the war effort.
Textiles are weapons of war. The requirements of our armed forces for textiles and clothing affects every family in the United States.
Even before Pearl Harbor, national production managers and economists of our country foresaw what might happen to the things we buy, and the Government began a National War on Waste. The highlight of Civilian Defense Week November 11th to 16th, 1941, was the signing of the Consumer's Pledge by millions of Americans. Mrs.
Roosevelt and the White House housekeeper signed the first pledge which read: As a consumer in the total defense of democracy, I will do my part to make my home, my community, my country, ready, efficient, and strong. I will buy carefully. I will take good care of the things I have. I will waste nothing. The Consumer's Pledge as it relates to clothing means to waste nothing, to take care of every bit of fabric in the home, and to buy carefully. UNEMPLOYED CLOTHING CALLED INTO SERVICE OMEN all over the country have accepted this challenge as a patriotic duty.
There is more money in circulation today, but the patriotic citizen spends his money first for taxes, debts, and bonds, and almost last for extra clothing in order to release more textiles and clothing: for direct war needs. "To release materials, machines, men, and money for war operations, civilians must cut their clothing requirements to the core, basing them on needs, not wants. It is important to civilian morale that this situation be met intelligently and cheerfully." If we do not meet the problem voluntarily, rationing will force us to do so. "This year of 1943 should be a year of conservationstain removal, moth control, mending, alteration of patterns, fitting, remodeling old clothes, and making new ones." War, with its extra calls for sewing and mending, always gives impetus to needlework.
Sewing for the Red Cross to help care for the wounded on the battlefield and in the hospitals, as well as to clothe refugees in Europe and China, started a revival of home sewing throughout the country even before the United States declared war on the Axis. Since Pearl Harbor the need has come closer home, and women are meeting the challenge to conserve for the war effort. The sale of yardage goods throughout the nation has increased from 40 to 50 per cent over the sales during the same period in former years, and the sale of patterns has almost kept pace.
There is a growing desire on the part of many women to acquire the ability to wield a needle. Higher 271 living costs are making many women who have been accustomed to buy their clothing ready-made, turn to home sewing as a means of getting the quality they want for the price they can pay. The rationing of tires and gasoline, the extreme difficulty in procuring maid service for the home, and the ever-growing list of rationed foods and household articles will result in many women, particularly women with dependent young children, remaining in their homes more than they did before the war. Art and needlework instructors in department stores report that more women are interested in handwork at the present time than for many years. 'This is probably due to one or both of two reasons: (1) the desire to assist the war effort by knitting and sewing for the Red Cross; and (2) the desire to find an outlet for emotional and mental strain.
Since women are turning to the satisfactions derived from working with their hands, it is well for those women with children or small friends and relatives, to turn part of their desire for handwork into utilizing outmoded wearing apparel for their clothing needs. T is sometimes difficult to find time for sewing, mending, and renovating, but time should be taken for all of these.
Attics and storage places should be searched for all '"'unemployed" garments that may be put into service. It is wise to bring outmoded garments into use to conserve clothing, to save money, and to utilize.
Materials which are better than those to be purchased now. 272
The present regulations for price control are not tied to specific standards of quality. A ceiling price as of a certain date carries with it no sure  guarantee that the quality is the same as that of a former date. Reduction of serviceability without a consequent reduction in price is contrary to the spirit of the regulation, but enforcement of such a principle in the complex field of clothing is exceedingly difficult. Numerous complaints are coming from consumers to the effect that though they pay higher prices for wearing apparel, they have no assurance as to its wearing qualities, laundering, or cleaning possibilities. Because of this, it may be wise for a consumer to use material she has on hand that has proved to be good and wait for something more to be done in the way of labeling to reveal the fiber content, method, and kind of dye used, cleaning possibilities, etc., of any new materials she buys. "Ready-made articles of clothing will rise more in price than yard goods. Increasing clothing costs can be met by home sewing, particularly in the field of remodeling." When one sets out to remodel an article, the material or fabric is already at hand. Often the only outlay of money will be for a spool of thread and a pattern. Some findings for remodeled garments need cost no money. It takes only a little while to make a collection of buckles, buttons, zippers, snap fasteners, and hooks and eyes from worn-out garments. If these are sorted and kept in separate cans or boxes, they will be readily accessible when needed for use on remodeled garments or even on new ones. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAPRIL 1943
Most remodeling has to do with the making of children's clothing from adults. The reason for this is obvious.
Often it isn't possible to change the style of a garment for an adult by making over a used one, unless the older material is combined with new material in some way.
Worn spots are difficult to manage, and it isn't wise to spend time on something that won't look smart when it is finished; so the majority of remodeling problems has to do with making smaller garments out of larger ones so as to avoid using worn edges, the thin places on the elbows of sleeves, the seats of trousers, etc. The possibilities of this process are many and varied: children's coats.
From adults' coats; boys' trousers from men's; snowsuits and sport coats from overcoats; young girls' and misses' suits from older brother's and fathers' suits; small girls' slips, bloomers, aprons, and pinafores from the backs, upper sleeves, and tails of men's shirts; and little boys' shirts from fathers'. Men's shirts are made of much better material than boys' ready-made shirts or the yardage that can be purchased for them, and often the buttonholes and buttons on a shirt can be utilized as they are. At no time in the life of a girl is it as important for her to be well-dressed as during adolescence.
Good looking accessories for the adolescent girl such as belts, collars, suit fronts, vests, and jerkins may be made from material already on hand, and will do much to satisfy her desire for frequent changes in her apparel.
Most small children have no aversion to remodeled clothing.
Often a mother's ability to use outmoded or UNEMPLOYED CLOTHING CALLED INTO SERVICE partially worn garments means the difference between her child looking neat and well-clothed, or poor and shabby. It is when a seam has been taken in, the sleeves or skirt shortened, or some other alteration made to make a too large garment fit a smaller child without regard for line or correct proportions, that a garment looks made-over and dowdy. If one plans to make over old garments, in order to obtain the best results, the garments should first be entirely picked apart, and thoroughly cleaned by washing or dry cleaning.
Then one should cut and sew as if new material were being used and the results will then be satisfactory.
Often one finds that more problems present themselves when cutting small articles from pieces of fabric than when cutting them from a continuous length, especially when a commercial pattern with an illustrated layout is used. A few devices will help to overcome such difficulties.
Frequently a yoke across the back. Or front of the waist, a patch pocket to cover a worn spot or the place where a slit pocket has been, cuffs where no cuffs are designed in the pattern, a seam not called for at the waist which can be hidden by a belt, or a pleat to hide a piecing in a skirt will help. MANY mothers will agree that these suggestions sound fine but will confess that they don't know how to sew. To many women today needlework or sewing of any kind is a lost art, something that passed into oblivion with he coming of the industrial age and mass production; but an extension clothing specialist in Indiana wrote in an article in the 273
Journal of Home Economics, "Indiana homemakers, who had almost forgotten the pleasure and satisfaction of sewing for the family, have brought out their sewing machines, and dusted and oiled them ready for work. 'Those who have never sewed before are enthusiastic over their first attempts. "A swing back to home sewing is, to be sure, a wartime necessity, but it is a perennial satisfaction to those who have really mastered the art." If a person is interested in any program, she can learn, with conscientious effort, to take part in the program, and reversely, if a person wishes to build up interest in any problem she must enter into the solving of the problem. One is never too old to gain new knowledge nor acquire new skills. MANY methods may be worked out to enable one to learn to sew, if this important ability hasn't been developed. Of course the easiest method is to enroll in high school, college, or special sewing school classes, or in a civic organization that has set up a sewing class. If it is not possible to do this, a group of women might obtain the services, over a given period of time, of a high school or college teacher. If enough mothers became interested, the Relief Society would be happy to provide instruction as part of its work-and-business day program. An individual plan might. Be worked out to help a neighbor or friend with problems in her home for the help she might give in problems of sewing. Sewing clubs could be organized to meet in one another's homes, or in some public room. Almost - 274 anyone who is adept at sewing will be willing to help others if the time and place can be arranged. "Where there's a will there's a way," and people who really wish assistance, can find some way to obtain help from those who can give it. Don't agree with the defeatist who says that women won't do anything about conservation, that there is too much money on hand, and that too many clothes are available. Rather stop and considerHave I given myself a real chance to know what needs to be done, why it needs to be done, and how it can be done?