Mother's Day. By Nephi Anderson. The husband and the wife filed out slowly with the dispers- ing congregation. Usually, at the close of the meeting, he lingered to chat and to shake hands with his neighbors; but that evening the wife took him by the arm and said, "Come on, I want to go home." The husband looked at his wife as they passed out from the closemeeting room into the cool evening air. "Aren't you feel- ing well?" he asked. "Oh, I'm all right," she replied. "The air was bad tonight. Why don't they have more win- dows open!" "Yes the room was close, but it wasn't that." ; As the two walked on homeward, the wife clung to her hus- band's arm. He drew her hand closely into his. She was not well, he could see that. Usually, light-hearted and talkative, she was silent all the way home. They went into the sitting room, and he threw open the window. The wife sank into the chair by the table, and the husband gently folded a light shawl across her shoulders. Then he sat down by her. The evening was bright with moonlight which fell into the room through the cur- tained window. "That was a lovely Mothers' Day program we had this even- ing," said he. "Mrs. Harrington is quite an orator." "Yes and do you know how she made me feel?" replied the; wife in a gentle voice, full of feeling. He did not grasp the full meaning of her question, and she saw it, so she continued: "She made me feel how little, how insignificant, how useless, how good- for-nothing I am." "Why, my dear!" "Yes she just as good as said that a woman who had not; been a mother is of very little consequence." "Oh, she did not say that." "Not in so many words, but her argument led to that con- clusion. I've never been a mother, and never shall be, and there- fore, I am of very little consequence in the world." "That's not your fault, my dear. Surely — "No I'm not to blame, as far as I know, but that fact does; not alter the case. I am not a mother, and I shall remain without that honor all my days. No matter how much good I may do in other ways, I must miss the supreme destiny of woman. And why—" — ; ; ; MOTHER'S DAY. 375 The wife bowed her head into her hands and tears trickled through her fingers. The husband put his arm about her. "My dear, don't do that. Don't feel badly about it." "Not even a white carnation was given me," she said, as she raised her face and tried to smile through her tears. "I'll buy you a bouquet of them." "It was really funny. Mary Jones knows, as everybody knows, that I am not a mother, so when we came in did you — notice — she just skipped me and pinned one of the biggest flowers she had on old Mother Brown who has ten children. Yes, surely, it was Mother's Day." The husband sat down by his wife, very close, so that he could take her in his arms and kiss her face and stroke her wavy, brown hair, not yet tinged with gray. They smiled again into each other's faces and the little cloud of sorrow seemed to be lifted. "This is a man-made Mother's Day," he said "but I want to; tell you of a Mother's Day that is coming' — coming for all such good, noble women as you." "All right, tell me."' "Why motherhood is denied wives who desire it, we may not know. We must, in such cases, be content, and trust in the Lord but this we Latter-day Saints are assured, that some day, all that is coming- to every good man and every good woman will be real- ized. And fatherhood and motherhood is one of these blessings. Though no earthly children may come to their earthly home, there is coming a day when our heavenly home will echo with the glad voices of children innumerable. Let me read to you what the Lord says." He snapped on the electric light. Then he reached for the Book of Doctrine and Covenants lying on the table, and opened it. "This is from Section Seventy-six: " 'This is the testimony of the gospel of Christ concerning them who come forth in the resurrection of the just " 'They are they who receive the testimony of Jesus, and believe on his name, and were baptized after the manner of his burial, being buried in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given, " 'That by keeping his commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, * * * " 'They are they who are the church of the first born. " 'They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things " 'They are they who are Priests and Kings, who have re- ceived of his fullness, and of his glory, " 'And are Priests of the Most High, after the order of Mel- chizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son — 
 "'Wherefore, as it is written, they are Gods, .even the sons of God " 'Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's, and Christ is God's; " 'And they shall overcome all " thing's.' "Yes," said the wife, after a pause in the reading", "that is all very beautiful; but what about it?" "W'hy, don't you see, taking- for granted that we belong to those who fulfil the requirements, 'a// things' are promised us, 'whether life or death, or things present, or things to come.' Surely, within the comi^ass of 'all things' will be the power to propagate our kind, and raise up a heavenly posterity that shall be ours as ti-uly as we are our Heavenly Father's. Here, let me read from the revelation on Celestial marriage. In speakin'^' of the purposes for which virgins are given to God-fearing men, the Lord says: " 'For they are given unto him to multiply and replenish the earth, according to my commandment, and to fulfil the prom- ise which was given by my Father before the founrlation of the \\ Olid and for their exaltation in the eternal worlds, that they; may bear the souls of men; for herein is the work of my Father continued, that he may be glorified.' ''Did you note the two divisions of this promise. The first is to multiply and rej^ilenish the earth the second is that they may; bear the souls of men, after their exaltation in the eternal worl 's. Most good wives fulfil the first requirement, and most of them, we hope, will be worthy to continue their high calling into the worlds to come. And this we are assured, also, that those good wives were spoken of in the revelation, who because of no fault of their own, failed in the first, will not fail in the second, but in their exalted state will bear the souls of men. "Does it mean all that?" "Orson Pratt seemed to think so, for here are his footnotes to the ex])ression 'soids of men'. See, here it is in the book: " 'that is, the souls or spirits of men to be born in heaven.' The wife bent over the book with the husband that she might see for herself. Yes, there it was. It must be true. Never be- fore ha this doctrine come so definitely to her. 1 There was a look in her face as she raised it to her husband's that was lieau- tifu-1 to see. "To 'hear the souls of iiicii " he repeated, "(^h, my dear, think of it: motherhoo without pain or suffering! To bring 1 forth and then to mother a race of children that shall be your very own throughout the ages of eternity. That day will indeed be ^Mothers' Dav. my dear." "Yes: and that will be Fathers' Dav, too, will it not?" MOTHER'S DAY. 2>77 "For you and for me!" "Thank you, my husband, for what you have said. I shall be comforted, and try to shape my life to be worthy of that great destiny a^yaiting us."