Home Science Department. Jaucttc A. Hyde. Utah should be intensely interested in the manufacture and consumption of sugar. The use of sugar is of exceedingly recent origin. Only a century old, so to speak. The sugar-cane was known by the ancient Arabs and Egyptians, but was used very little. It was introduced by the Arabs in Egy])t and the southern part of Europe in the middle ages. From 1420 its cultivation spread somewhat through the tropical countries and was brought over to the W'est Indies in 1641. It flourishes only in tropical countries. Maple-sugar is a native American product. Cane- sugar was not manufactured to any extent until the year 1830. in India the juice is still extracted by hand in small roller mills. The sugar-beet is a cultivated variety of mangel-wurzel. A Berlin chemist in 1760 discovered the sugar from this white variety of beet and France at once set about its cultivation. Both Strabo and Marco Polo describe for usxthe use of cane-sugar among the East Indians, but even they knew nothing of the won- derful sugar-beet. The first sugar-beet factory was established in Selesia in 1801. It was not, however, until after 1830 that it secured a firm footing even in Europe. As late as 1840 the world's whole production of cane-sugar was 1,000,000 tons, of beet sugar 50,000 tons. In 1900 the world's production was 2,- 850,000 tons of cane-sugar and 5.950 tons of beet-sugar. The first sugar factory built in Utah was the Eehi plant, in 1891, in which year they turned out 1,000,000 pounds of sugar. We now have seven factories in this state, and in 1914 the farmers of Utah raised and delivered to the sugar companies 613,840 tons of beets for which they were paid $3,000,000. The beets produced 76,000 tons of finished sugar. An army of men were employed to work these beets, over 100,000 tons of coal was used. 35,000 tons of lime rock. 7,000 tons of coke and several hundred thousand dollars' worth of other manufacturing material. Utah ranks fourth among the States of the Union in its pro- duction of sugar and number of factories, Colorado being first, with fourteen factories, California second in production, with eleven factories, and Michigan third, with fifteen, factories. Idaho has four factories, and produces about half as much sugar as Utah, and less than Montana, which has but one factory. About ten factories are idle this year, a fact principally due to the removal of nearly all of the tariff duty on sugar, and the fear of free sugar, which was to become effective May 1, 1916, but which the government was afraid to enforce. The production of HOMli SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 397 sugar in the 1913-14 was 638,400 tons, Utah riiited States in giving- 76.000 tons of that amount. Only one-tifth of L'tah made sugar is locally consumed. The iialance finds a market in other states. Sugar has heen protected by legislation in every country of the world. The bounty system of Europe (which means that the government has aided the sugar producers by giving a bounty), induced the British government to endeavor to regulate this bounty question. They met in 1888 and did nothing but talk about it. They met again in 1896 and again did nothing but talk about it. The European powers met in 1898, all but Erance, A\ho was then the great sugar producing country, wanted regula- tion. In 1907 the British Minister Grey again tried to induce the other countries to lower their bounty standards. Imagine wdiat it would have meant to Utah had our government forced the ill-begotten law on May first of this year, lifting the bounty off of American sugar. The one great financial difiiculty that faces us now as a state and as a nation, is to get the sugar-beet seed from Europe where it is grown. In domestic uses sugar is an invaluable adjunct to the table. It is a stimulant and heat producing material when eaten in any of its forms. It is a great preservative for fruit as every house- wife knows. Itsmyriad uses begin with medicines and end with candy. There is no question but what Americans use too much candy, but scientists have discovered that sugar, eaten in modera- tion, satisfies the craving for stimulants, and it is now supplied to armies in vast quantities. There has been some prejudice against beet-sugar, but loyal Utah housewives do not share in these prejudices. The United States Agricultural Department, through scientific experiments, announced that beet sugar was the peer of all sugar manufactured for every purpose and anyone who says anything to the contrary is talking fables and nonsense. — Sugar may be rising so is flour and meat and vegetables. We have to live, we housewives, and keep our families well fed. no matter if it does cost us money to do so. We suggest a little less use of candy and a little more use of sugar in simple desserts and fruit. FRUIT DRYING. This is the month when good housewives will begin to think about fruit drying whether they do it or not. It is a grievous social sin that fruit should be grown and left to rot by the hun- dreds of bushels on the ground. Invidious freight rates may cause a portion of that waste, but the women of the Relief Society can do something towards correcting the evil. We suggest that fruit drying parties be given in every ward where fruit is raised. ; 
 and that not an apple, peach, plum, pear or apricot shall be wasted that can be properly dried. Peel your peaches and apples, discard the decayed ones watch the drying fruit that it is not rained upon, cover it with mosquito bar and keep just as clean as is possible. Did you ever make peach leather and apple butter? We suggest that you try these pioneer delicacies this year. The Home Science Department and their associate commit- tees in the stake and ward boards will be glad to act as a clearing house for the distribution of dried fruit where any ward has a surplus and can afford to give the same to the poor in wards where they have none. Sweet corn should also be dried, taking pains to select the best corn, which has not been allowed to get too ripe and drying it in the usual approved fashion. The Horsley Brothers of Brigham City and the Co-operative Store in Pleasant Grove carry delicious dried fruits in the fall months at very reasonable prices. Mrs. Sarah Hovey, Millville, Utah, puts up hundreds of pounds of delicious dried corn if the order is sent in in the summer time. Please let this department know what you are doing in the drying of fruit for distribution to the poor. MISCELLANEOUS. Cheese cloth bags filled with bran are excellent for cleaning wall paper. Bran bags are used instead of soap, for the face and hands. It is also used for washing delicate fabrics instead of soap water. Bran water is just as effective, and is not injurious. Cleaning Linoleum. Go over your linoleum once a week with a cloth dipped in a mitxure of equal parts of turpentine and linseed oil. It will make the linoleum look like new. When making a bread or custard pudding, try flavoring it with essence of ginger, it gives a delicious flavor. Use about the same amount as you would lemon or vanilla. The use of tissue paper cannot be too highly recommended for greasing bread or cake tins. It is also very useful for wiping off grease from pots and pans, before putting in dish-water. It is also very useful in giving a polish to glassware and windows. Stale Bread. Cut your stale bread into finger lengths, dip in milk for a minute, put on a buttered tin in the oven until crisp, spread with butter, and serve while hot, with jam or syrup.