Genealogical Notes. Many letters are received in this office concerning- the- prep- aration of the individual genealogical sheet. The question asked is — Shall the individual's parents and family be given on the outside of the sheet or that of her husband and herself and family? As a matter of fact, it makes little difference which family is chosen for the outside of the sheet. No dates are given and no genealogy at all is provided for on that side of the "sheet. It must be remembered that this sheet is simply a sample sheet taken from the Living Record Book. We have recommended the preparation of it with two purposes in view. One is to secure, if possible, a genealogical record of every woman in the Relief Society, which shall be filed finally in the archives of the Gene- alogical Society of Utah. The second purpose,, which is vastly more important, is to convert every woman in this Society to the pressing necessity of her securing a Living Record Book, and there to record every bit of information she can set down con- cerning her family and her husband's family. In the Living Record Book there are 20 sheets for family groups and indi- vidual sheets in which to record all of the data concerning these families to the number of 100. So you see, sisters, that in this simple sheet it does not matter much whose particular family is named, but it does matter that you shall write out all your own genealogy on the inside and file that sheet with the secretary of your Society. Another question that has been asked a great deal is con- cerning the names which are to be used by the Relief Society sisters when they go to the Temple in an official body. Some misunderstanding has arisen because of an unfortunate para- graph in the February number of the Magazine on page 114. The so-called charity lists there mentioned have made so much difficulty even before the Magazine was published and after that paragraph was in print that the General Board passed the reso- lution found on page 110. We ask you, therefore, to govern yourselves by the note on page 110: "All genealogical visits to be reported on the blanks are the official visits paid to the Temple by the ward Relief Society members and private visits by indi- viduals to Temples need not be recorded." There the names may be furnished by the Relief Society or by the individual. If there is an understanding with the ward presidents the visits may be accepted as official, whether taken from charity lists or from individual lists.