[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Guard | Author: Allegretti]
Remember—the checkup is to guard your family now—the check will guard their future. No matter how diverse people may be in their attitudes and ways of life, they are united in a determination to banish one of mankind's worst enemies—cancer. Americans have backed this determination by working as volunteers for, and by their contributions to, the American Cancer Society. Fighting cancer costs money. In the last ten years the American people contributed $211,441,437 to the American Cancer Society for this cause. It has brought results. 'There are 800,000 Americans who have reason to thank the ACS for the balanced research, education, and service programs which helped save their lives. 'These 800,000 once had cancer and were cured. Cancer affects rich and poor, office, factory, and professional worker alike. 'That's why they stand shoulder to shoulder in the great crusade to wipe out cancer. Men and women stricken with cancer lose many millions of dollars in earnings and in hospital bills. Yet funds available for cancer research are a fraction of this cost. We have it in our power to hasten the greatest V-Day humanity will ever know—the day when nobody has to die of cancer. Expensive? Yes, but some of the best things in life are costly. When you're asked for a donation this April, remember you have an opportunity to acquire some day, for your own family, and all families everywhere, one of the greatest gifts of life—freedom from cancer. I (Benediction Thelma Ireland She kneels beside her little bed, Her wee hands clasped in prayer. Then trusting him, she falls asleep. There is a sermon there. Page 249 The Day I Turned Eight Ilene H. Kingsbury A a rain beat on my head. It struck my braids until they hung sodden. From my belted middle to my shoeless feet, I was quivering as the aspen leaves whose shade flickered over my face. This standing in a pond of spring water was almost more than I had bargained for. The ripples on its clear surface answered to the pelting April rain with dancing splashes and ever-widening circles. The persuasive tug of the water almost pulled me over on my face. Only the steady arm of my father kept me from floating away. 'This was the moment of my baptism. The day was warm for the season or we would not have started out on this serious errand. Our home on the desert, nearly a hundred miles away, had never given us the luxury of enough water for outdoor shower baths, let alone a swimming hole. And this was my first experience in deep water. No extravagant use of this precious substance was a maxim with us. For many years it was carried from artesian wells in wooden barrels. This, then explained our visit to Grandma's in time for the spring baptismal day in the pond at the outskirts of her Southern Utah town. From Grandma's to the meetinghouse and from there, in converging buggies, perhaps a dozen, we had headed for the pond. It was only after the horses were tied to the fence that we felt a little moisture on our faces and saw it fall in the dust and kick up miniature clouds at our feet. But, as the sun still Page 250 shone and the spot shower would soon move on down the valley, the plans of yesterday went forward. All my life up to that day, I had been taught the magic of becoming eight. For then I could be baptized. So, in the nurturing rain, which did not cease its gentle falling, we hurried to a leanto on the north side of the deserted ranch house to prepare ourselves for the event. Once under cover, my teeth began to chatter, not with cold, but with fear of the next few minutes. I sneaked a glance at one of my cousins, and at four or five other girls my age. 'They had already begun to peel off their dresses and were down to their long underwear. This ankle length garment of ribbed cotton, some of it combed soft on the skin side, reached to the shoe tops; and on the arms, to the elbows. The style had been designed for a wrist length, but during the winter most of us had begged our mothers to cut them off short, meaning to the elbows. Where this request had failed, some of us had done it ourselves back of the kitchen stove on bathing nights, and then stood the consequences. One could tell by our faces we wished it were at least May the first. On that great day we could shed this cocoon type encasement and, for perhaps a half year, be lightly clad either in vest and bloomers of woven cotton, elastic threaded at waist and knee; or in store pants of white knit. But today, April 25th, was a week before the THE DAY I TURNED EIGHT historic change to lighter garments, and even this momentous occasion hadn't warranted summer _ underwear.
