[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Young]
The Bishop's Wife Sylvia Probst Young ARIAN, with a little smile of amusement, watched her husband eating _ breakfast across the table. Apparently unaware of anything around him, he masterfully managed the eggs and bacon without taking his eyes from the morning paper. "Typical American husband," she observed, "without a paper in front of his face he couldn't enjoy the meal. Why, I could feed him burned toast and scorched bacon, and he wouldn't know the difference." Abruptly the paper was lowered, and two warm blue eyes smiled across at her. "I don't advise you try it, Mrs. C. Anyway, it's your fault for spoiling me these sixteen years." "I really have, haven't I?" Contentment, warm as the early morning sunlight stealing through her kitchen window, filled-Marian's heart. She enjoyed the early breakfast with Don before the boys were up. It gave them a few minutes alone in the busy day, minutes of mutual understanding, whether for serious contemplation or even light banter as this morning. "Guess I'd better go." Don rose from the table, his glass still in hand. "Marian." "Yes?" "Will you be real busy today? I need to have a stencil cut. We've got to get a letter out about the budget. [ve written it. There on my desk. And do you think you could go over to the church and run it off? We'll need about three Page 228 hundred copies. I want to get it out tomorrow, and I can't do it tonight, it's stake Priesthood meeting. "Oh, and will you call Dell and Willis, tell them [ll pick them up about 7:45? And, Marian, if you have time, there're a couple of letters of recommendation I should write, for Dean Clayton and Jack Sawyer. They want to become Eagles. You know, like the ones you've written before. They'll be coming for them, and I haven't had time." He came to stand beside her a moment then. "You're a honey." He planted a light kiss on the tip of her nose. "What would I do without you, Migs?" Migs—the pet name brought a rush of tender memories. It had been a long time since he had called her that. He had invented the name back in those World-War days when she had married him, a slim, dark-haired Marine. From the window she watched him getting into the car. His hair had slipped now, and was graying at the temples, and his figure had lost its boyish slimness. How often she had teased him lately about having just the right figure for a bishop. But he was always quick to remind her that her own hair had a tint of gray, and that constantly she was fighting to keep her waistline. How perfectly they understood each other. And how little the physical changes mattered when the depth of understanding and warmth of heart continued to grow. THE BISHOP'S WIFE MARIAN turned from the window. Life had been good to them. 'Temporally and spiritually, they had been greatly blessed. She gathered the dishes from the table and put them in the sink. "What's for breakfast, Mom?" Tousle-headed and _ sleepy-eyed, fifteen-year-old Dave stood tall and blond in the doorway. Marian smiled at him. It seemed only yesterday that he was a mere toddler. "Get the other boys up," she said, "I'll feed you all at once." As she cooked pancakes, Marian wondered if she would ever be able to fill her boys up. Fifteen, twelve, ten, and seven — they were all alike and yet so different. "Mark, you and Tommy do the dishes," she announced. "I've got some work to do for Daddy, and Dave you'd better get going, Dad will be expecting you. Denny, you play around here, now, so we'll know where you are." "Mama," it was 'Tommy calling from the den, "telephone." "He usually gets home about sixthirty, but it's Priesthood mecting tonight," she answered into the mouthpiece. 'No, I really couldn't tell you. Why don't you call about seven o'clock?" Putting the phone back into its cradle, Marian noticed a book laid out upon the desk — Home Memories of President McKay. She remembered Don saying he had promised to lend it to old Brother Marlow. I could take it to him this morning after I've finished the mimeographing, she thought. At half-past ten, with Denny at her side so he wouldn't vex the other boys all morning, Marian was 229 ready to go to the church to run off Don's stencil. The scout letters had been written, and she had called the counselors' wives about the Priesthood appointment. Just as she she was ready to go, the Relief Society president called. Would Marian have the bishop call her tonight if he could? "You're about as busy as he is," Marian concluded, after she had talked to Sister Franson a few minutes. "Tll have him call you for sure." She made a note of it. Beside the memo pad was a thick envelope she hadn't noticed before. Mary Ann Parker's marriage license. Don had married her and the Hayden boy last week. It was ready to mail except for a stamp. She would stop at the post office. With the letter and her other things, Marian went out of the house. It was a morning of summer loveliness — pink and gold, and gently fragrant with the perfume of blossoming honey locusts. Mark and Tommy were working on a bicycle in the garage. "Tl be back in time to get your lunch," she told them. "I'd_ like you to do your practicing while I'm gone." "Do we have to?" Tommy protested. "Well, thanks for taking Denny, anyway, Mark called as she drove out. In the cool quiet of the bishop's office, Marian sat at the table a moment before getting to the mimeographing. Here, in the quiet of this office, Don, as the bishop, made decisions and gave advice that constantly affected human lives. It was a great and humbling responsi- 230 bility to serve the Lord in such a capacity. Denny tugged at her arm. "Let's do the letters, Mama." He was intrigued as the printed sheets slid so quickly from under the roller. In a few minutes they had finished and were out again in the bright sunlight. LD Brother Marlow lived about a mile from town. His house, of stately gingerbread construction, the color of overcooked tomato soup, stood behind a row of tall Lombardy poplars, cool and reminiscent of a past generation. Brother Marlow was working in his petunia bed. He was a round, jolly little man, who, Denny declared, looked like Santa Claus. It pleased him when Marian wanted to know about his flowers. He took her from plant to plant explaining. Especially he was proud of his roses—hybrids, a dozen or more—he knew the name of every one. "TIL set you out some slips, Sister Crandall," he promised. Then he begged her to sit on his old porch, and he talked about his wife and the yesteryears. Huis great appreciation for the book and the homemade gingerbread that she brought made her realize anew how much personal satisfaction can be derived from the smallest act of kindness. The boys were clamoring for lunch when she got home, so it wasn't until later that she found the note by the telephone in Tommy's round, boyish scrawl. "Mama call IN 7-8926." Carefully she dialed the number, not remembering whose it was until she heard the voice on the other end. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 "Allie," she cried, "how nice. It's been ages since I've heard from you." "Marian, I've got the nicest surprise. I just got an airmail letter from the Bronsons. Howard has some sort of a business convention here in town on Saturday. They have to go again on Sunday, but Audrey would like us all to get together on Saturday night. Marian, I thought we could go to that new place up Pine Creek — Silver Lake Lodge. Do you know it's been ten years since we've seen Audrey?" Audrey — the name brought back memories of a summer at a Marine base in South Carolina, before the war ended. Audrey and Howard Bronson, Allie and Raymond Chesley, Don and she — the six of them had lived at Parris Island. The boys had served together in the same battery in the Pacific, and although the girls hadn't known each other until that summer, it hadn't taken long for them to become close friends. After the war, the Bronsons had gone back to the East Coast. Allie and Raymond lived only fifteen miles away, but Marian and Don hadn't gone out with them for more than a year. "Saturday night — that sounds wonderful," Marian told her friend. "Don doesn't have a thing that night, I'm sure. It'll be like old times, Allie." "Marian, could you and Don meet here at our place about seven so we won't be too late? It takes about half an hour to drive up there." "We'll be there," Marian promised. "I'll have Don leave the store early. I know he'll be as anxious to see you all as I am." THE BISHOP'S WIFE ARIAN was right in her predictions, Don was enthusiastic about the Saturday night plans. He was home from the store at five o'clock that night and helped Marian with a patio supper for the boys. Relaxing with the newspaper before getting ready, they recalled old times. "Remember the time we went to Jacksonville in Howard's old car?" "Do lV' "T always thought we had fun at the beach in Savannah, though. Remember how Dave loved the water. He'd have walked right into the ocean if we hadn't held on to him every minute." "Speaking of Dave, remember how our landlord spanked him for spilling the watermelon seeds?" Don laughed. "Boy, wasn't I mad! I was ready to spank the old? Mdan. "Dave was practically a baby — say, wed better get going." Marian followed Don into their bedroom. "What shall I wear?" she asked. "I really haven't much choice." "But I like you in anything." "That's comforting." "How about that blue dress? I think you look real cute in it." "Okay. 'The blue it will be." They were almost ready, Marian was just helping Don with his cufflinks, when the phone rang. "Wonder who that is?' "Probably someone for the kids." "Dad," Dave called from the den, "telephone." "Know who it was, Dave?" Marian asked, following Don into the den. "I don't know, Mom. It was a 231 woman's voice, sounded real worried." Marian looked at Don listening at the phone: His face looked grave. "IT surely will,' she heard him say, "Ill come right away." "What is it?" she asked, when he turned from the phone. "Don, where are you going?" "Marian," he turned from the phone, "Ronnie Decker was hit by an automobile. Thrown from his bike. They don't know just how badly he was hurt. Sister Decker would like me to come to the hospital to administer to him." "Don, can't you send someone else? Dell and Willis could go." He shook his head. "It's my duty to go, Marian. She asked for me. Look, honey, you call Allie and tell her we'll be a little late, but I should be back from the hospital in half an hour. Tell them to go on and we'll come soon as we can." He cupped his hand under her chin, reading the dark disappointment in her eyes. "Tm the bishop, honey," he reminded her gently. "Sister Decker and Ronnie are members of my ward. Ill go get Dell, and I'll be back soon as I can." She watched him go and then turned back to the phone to call Allie. The voice that answered was as filled with disappointment as her own. "We'll wait for you," Allie said. "No, you mustn't do that. We'll come just as soon as Don gets back. He shouldn't be too long." An hour later the phone rang. It was Don calling from the hospital. "Marian, the doctors are still working with Ronnie. You don't know how sorry I am, honey, I 232 wanted to see the Bronsons, too. But we just couldn't leave. See you soon as I can." The boys were in the basement playing Ping-pong and watching television. Marian changed into a robe and went out on the patio to wait. A full moon was peeking above Mt. Olympus, and a gentle breeze stirred the locusts. Silly to nurse a disappointment on such a beautiful night. She turned her thoughts to the vacation they were planning. When Don finally came, she met him with a smile. He put his arms around her. Without saying a word, he knew that she understood his appreciation for her. "Ronnie's going to be all right," he said. "But he was badly battered up, several broken ribs, and his right leg really smashed. He looked so white and little when they brought him into the room." "Well, he's only about eight, isn't he?" "That's right. But do you know what he said after we had administered to him? He said, "Thanks, Bishop, I know the Lord is with you.' "It made me feel so good, Marian. Sister Decker was so appreciative, and her husband — we had quite a talk. I really believe he was impressed." "He very well might have been, Don," she answered. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 HE next morning Marian learned how right their impression concerning Mr. Decker had been. It was how right their impression concerning Mr. Decker had been. It was still early when the phone rang. "Sister Crandall, this is Jean Decker," she heard the voice on the other end saying. "I want to tell you how much we appreciated hav- - ing the bishop and Brother Walker administer to Ronnie last night. I know the Lord was with them. "And, Sister Crandall, you don't know what an impression they made on my husband. He's always been so disinterested in the Church. He never would come to meetings or anything. But last night he told me that he had no idea that a Mormon bishop was so devoted to his members. 'Maybe your church is worth investigating,' he said." There was a catch in her voice, "You don't know how much that means to me. [I want to thank you so much for the sacrifices you make, too. It must be hard to have your husband gone so much, but I'll bet you're really proud to be the bishop's wife." Marian felt a sudden wave of love and gratitude fill her heart. Whatever sacrifices she made were doubly compensated by the rich blessings she enjoyed, she had always known that. "Oh, yes," she answered humbly, "I'm very proud to be the bishop's wife."

Seven ITlonths of Color Fva Willes Wangsgaard Ward Linton aias EASTER LILIES ( a an plans and flower arrangements are composed with the same basic principles —contrast of size, height, and shape with harmony and unification, proper use of color and tones with balance for good composition. Color means many things to many people. You can get interesting effects with foliage alone or with brilliant blooms. 'There are thousands of plants in the world and it is fun to try everything you see, but effective gardens are created by planting a choice few. Often the simplest designs are the most attractive. Old favorite plants have been so improved upon that one can get a variety of stunning designs by different combinations of the same plant, for example, the old standby marigolds or zinnias. In landscaping a city lot the same principles hold true for the whole as for individual garden plots. A sample landscape is on a long, narrow lot (42' x 132') with a south front. Walking up the driveway (not shown on the diagram) on your right is a raised curb and three feet of land. 'This plot is set in narcissi. Since my purpose from end to end of my land-picture is to have continuous bloom, abundance of cutting flowers, and minimum labor, I learned which bulbs would survive the summer irrigating of plants sharing the same area with them. The King Alfred daffodils have to be replaced almost annually, but the "paper-whites," "golden dwarts," and "Cheerfulness" live on prolifically year after year. In the spring planting period, I divide my clumps of azalea chrysanthemums and replant them between the blooming bulbs. As the narcissi ripen and die back, the chrysanthemums grow and_ spread into graceful domes of deep green foliage hiding the blades, then burst into gorgeous bronze flowers in July and bloom on until snowfall. Facing the house, let us consider the foundation planting. The house is purple fire brick with a brick porch with brick corner pillars making an "L" with the front wall. At the right of the porch in the house wall is a seven-foot picture window. Under the window the cement walk is cut away leaving a small semicircular garden spot. 'lhe front walk also curves around the lawn to the driveway. On the far Page 233 234 o 9 Oo 9 Fa LILACS Uae LILACS W N= WW wn n <f uw ul wu > G ga Bs "" Zz 2g ce Z - IRISES wis S I? SS Se Oo: < 9 3 £ 1) Oo 3 u) < oS < LAWN ze } > u) w Is 2 o I x a < > e I Ag! X > 8 I SI go Les 5 __ "I I (A) wv. 8 PATIO < w 8 a = hi 3 a n w (] 0 HOUSE 4 7 x r4 0 2 E 3 2 wa I Ie IL Ww a < © [) fe) WS Z PORCH 9 n w al fad oe rrr a2 5 ° Ow = 2) 02 PART OF LAWN Q oa left, bordering the lawn, is a hedge of Peace roses. A curb also marks this property line and continues west of the porch and angles to the house. In the plot made by the tight angle stands a juniper (pfitzRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 er) chosen because it tolerates shade, grows large and rapidly, and so soon screened off the unsightly area between the houses. N front of the porch I marked a garden plot which forms a lazy "S" with the curve in the cement walk, then followed it with parallel. Curves ending at the driveway. In this area are the foundation evergreens — in front of each pillar an upright, golden arborvitae. Between these, well-centered, is a deep green ball arborvitae, and filling the area on either side are two spreading arborvitae (Armstrong). 'Two other upright, golden arborvitae follow the swerve of the pathway and the earth between hides under spreading junipers known as "tams." Against the wall of the porch we attached a wire framework of nonrusting fencing for support for purple clematis vines. Between the vines and the evergreens we spaced two broad-leafed evergreen shrubs (Euonymus), because they fan out well, grow rapidly, bear beautiful glossy green broad leaves the year around, screen the wire from sight, and yield filtered shade from the fierce midday sun which might tax the strength of the slender vine stems. Another lovely fan of Euonymus drapes the wall under the high-set picture window and the curve beneath it is a wonderful place in which to show off the flamboyant "Emperor Red" tulips or the even larger "Gloria." All across the front of the house and porch, in the open spaces between shrubs, are azalea chrysanthemum roots ready to add their bronze domes to the picture as the summer progresses, covering SEVEN MONTHS OF COLOR Ward Linton PINKS the unsightly dwindling blades of the tulips. Also there was room for two tall-growing pink floribunda rosebushes_ strategically placed to fill in color between the height of the purple effusion of the clematis and the low-arching bronze of chrysanthemums. Walking past the house down the driveway, you notice that privacy is maintained by an upright golden arborvitae set even with the houseline. 'The area between the driveway and the neighbor's house is five feet, green all year with periwinkle (myrtle), and dotted with blue and white blossoms in May. A curved recess in the cement driveway permits a hedge of floribunda roses (set from slips) along the east foundation of the house. 'There is room for a border of "Emperor Red" tulips and chrysanthemums planted against the wall behind and between the roses which carry the bronze and pink theme along the house from tulip time to autumn. 235 The garage is set back eleven feet from the house. On the right, the myrtle garden gives way to a raised plot of perennial phlox shaded by Austrian copper sweetbriers and backed by maroon and purple clematis vines climbing the link fence. On the left, connected with the house, is a long patio (11' x 28') with an aluminum roof, white, to match the woodwork on the house. INCE the lines of the house, garage, and patio are all straight and a curve lends itself to casier artistry, I broke up the straightness by cutting arcs in the lawn and planting native junipers in the triangles thus created, covering the exposed earth with spreading junipers, Armstrongs, and "'tams." 'The fourfoot garden west of the patio is planted with shrubs, an English yew which thrives on shade, American Beauty June roses, and climbers. In spring, numerous tulips of the great Darwin type come up between Ward Linton NASTURTIUMS 236 the Boston ivy leaves, grow to a height from eighteen inches to thirty-two inches and spread a riot of color abroad, then creep back under the ivy leaves during the summer. 'The roses follow the west fence line all down the lot. We chose a link fence to get a feeling of spaciousness blending the gardens of the neighborhood and achieved privacy by planting taller shrubs, lilacs, forsythia, and altheas where necessary. 'The dense green of hydrangeas fills in the shady places. Behind the garage we described another arc in the lawn, built a slatted redwood canopy to filter the high noon sun, and specially prepared the soil for the begonia bed with a backdrop of vetch ivy on the garage wall. On the left, is a perennial garden of irises, lilies, and peonies partially shaded by two flowering crab trees — a Hopi with its single, deep-rose blossoms and jewellike fruits, and the Betchel, with its clusters of appleblossoms — pink Ward Linton SNOW FLURRY IRIS ELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 Don Knight VIRGINIA STOCK double flowers. 'There is still room for a small rectangle of perennials on the east end balancing with the lilies on the west. All the borders and vacant spots between large perennials are carpeted with Ballerina petunias as my color-scheme for the rear garden is set by the phlox in their luscious pastel tones. A row of phlox between the peony rows holds tall bushy racemes of gorgeous rose, purple, salmon, and maroon florets above the midsummer foliage of the peonies. All over the garden are naturalized clumps of hyacinths, tulips, and daffodils that spring up early and scatter generous cups of sunshine for March and April pick-ups that last well into May, then die down modestly under the summer foliage and abundant petunia blooms. HADE for the back lawn is provided by a Norway maple tree which was a wind-blown seedling SEVEN MONTHS OF COLOR seventeen years ago, and an interesting element of what's-around-thecorner surprise is achieved by a magnolia shrub which arches out gracefully to filter the afternoon sunshine before it reaches the begonias. Its heavy rose-washed white, tulip-like blossoms are exotic in season, and its glossy leaves are a full season's delight. The iris bed is a series of circles of patented varieties surrounding a circular raised garden in the center between the crabtrees. They, with the peonies, provide an abundance of cutting bloom when we need it most for Decoration Day, weddings, and graduations, and their simple foliage makes a fine carpeting beneath stands of planters filled with summer bloom. Between and among the _ background shrubs and lilacs, grow more and taller, fall-blooming chrysanthemums. These tolerate shade well and add to the green tones of the backdrop until autumn when they flame out in reds, bronzes, and golden tones upon the changing scene. In all shaded areas where flowers 237 are impractical, Boston and English ivy trail their beautifully cut, broad leaves under the shrubs, hiding earthy spots and tying everything together with their restful, pleasing greenness. A garden is a personal thing. What best suits your home will be determined by the architecture and by what you like, because people are seldom comfortable in uncongenial surroundings. 'These rules are general: plan as a unit, vary the individual parts, keep a_ color scheme, buy well, keep designs simple, and keep gardens wellgroomed. Buy perennials, especially peonies, by catalogue name, and choose only high-grade varieties. Never plant inferior plants just because they are cheap. Fewer and better specimens will yield more quickly and with lasting returns. If you cannot landscape a whole lot at once, buy a few plants each year, keeping the whole plan in mind and placing plants where they will be unified in the same growth cycle. Let your garden rate high in enjoyment and livability without sacrificing either utility or beauty. >< Wild Primrose Evelyn Fjeldsted Over furrowed fields beyond the town, Sleeping under snowflake down, The primrose wakes when winter wanes, And alone a queenly flower reigns. When sunset leaves a silver loom, To weave the light through hillside aisles, The evening primrose sends perfume, Across the land of prairie wilds. To the infinite design attuned, Wielding beauty's unseen scepter, A small, white flower tells of peace, And of earth the true inheritor. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL Nations" MARCH 17th CELEBRATION IN PAROWAN: I wonder if there are any who care to read of the unpretentious ward of Parowan, or rather the Relief Society in this ward?... At two p. M. We had a program meeting, the time being occupied by a number of the elderly sisters speaking on the object of the Relief Society.... Some very appropriate recitations by the younger sisters with some well chosen songs and sentiments, making those present feel like saying, "It is good to be here.' In the evening the organization gave a ball, the members of the society contributing a dainty lunch.... Many of our members are young mothers whose first duty is to guard and guide the precious jewels an indulgent Parent has entrusted to them.... There is a certain magical link that seems to chain us together so that whenever we aim for anything in righteousness we are sure to gain it —E. Crane Watson FREEDOM: The very air we breathe is redolent of freedom. For this precious gift let us offer a tribute of praise from the altar of our hearts to the God of liberty. We can scarcely be too ardent in our enthusiasm concerning this goodly land, these beautiful vales in the desert where a band of weary Pilgrims found rest and peace after a long and toilsome journey across the bleak and desolate plains, having been wanderers like the children of Israel for an indefinite period because of their religious faith... And finally made their resting place by America's Great Dead Sea. —Emmeline B. Wells YOUR CHILDREN Teach them your children round the hearth When evening fires burn clear; And in the fields of harvest mirth, And on the hills of deer. So shall each unforgotten word When far their loved ones roam, Call back the hearts which once it stirred To childhood's holy home. —Selected DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S GRADUATES: Sister Ellis R. Shipp is an M. D. And graduated from Philadelphia... The whole class, eight in number, passed the written examinations before the State Medical Board of Utah. They all averaged 80 per cent, and two of the students, Mrs. Emily G. Cluff and Miss Olea Shipp, were specifically mentioned as coming through with flying colors, these two getting ninety-five per cent. Dr. Shipp cannot receive too much eulogy for the good work she is doing.... The students are scattered all through the country and do much good in the communities where they reside, in alleviating suffering, and what is better, instructing their patients how to prevent it.... Our successes have only caused us to feel more humble and thankful to our Heavenly Father, for we realize that he has given us the ability to understand and opened the way for us to devote our time to this gloriously interesting study. —Emily G. Cluff Page 238 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, left Salt Lake City, February 27th, for London to study the programs of the Women's Voluntary Service Organizations of England. Announcement of the trip came from President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. President Spafford was invited to study these organizations by Dowager Marchioness of Reading, G. B. E. (Dame Grand Commander of the Order of the British Empire) and C. S. T. (of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem). Lady Reading is also a member of the House of Lords in the British Parliament. RS. MARY G. ROEBLING has recently been elected to the board of governors of the American Stock Exchange. This is the first time a woman has been a member of a governing body of a United States securities market. MRS. Eva Willes Wangsgaard, well-known poet, and frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has a new volume of poems, her fifth, just off the Wings Press. In this book, Shape of Earth, are poems of nature and of the human heart. Many have a deep religious feeling. The poems show delicacy, imagination, strength, and imagery.