[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Week]
Porter, author of the social Page 242 NOTES TO THE FIELD 243 science lessons, will teach the course in Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age. Many outstanding lectures and demonstrations on family life, in addition to the above list, will be given. Each day a devotional assembly will be held with excellent keynote speakers, and evening entertainments will climax each day. Detailed programs and registration cards may be obtained by writing to or calling at the Brigham Young University Adult Education and Extension Services in Provo, Utah. The information and teachings given at Leadership Week do not substitute for the official Relief Society instructions, but the material is beneficial as it supplements and enhances understanding. > Song for Fler Soul Ruth H. Chadwick I heard her singing, sitting there alone— The words I knew by heart, and yet before I saw her face or stepped inside her door, I felt a newborn grandeur in her tone. She had not heard my footsteps as I came, And so I watched and listened to her song. Her fragile body, braced to make it strong, Bent forward now above her quilting frame. Her bony fingers shook; her shoulders twitched. Then, gripping fast the frame, she forced her chair On wheels to move along the side, to where Another pattern waited to be stitched. And all the while, she sang without a break In melody or words, first soft and sweet, Then full and strong, and with each new repeat She sewed fresh courage there for her own sake. Her pain was eased by the tune she loved so well; The words, her testimony, "All is well!" + Jo a Sriend Marion Winterbottom pe haunting melody of a lute was casting its spell over me as I watched the lonely river winding its way out to the sea. Then, suddenly, a jubilant symphony seemed to fill the land. The entire world seemed beautiful as I clasped your outstretched hand; as we walked together the muddy river turned to dusky jade; the dark clouds vanished from my sight, and I no longer was afraid. I knew that this perfect harmony would never come to an end, because from that day until forever I had you for a friend. pergre rel Giwannan Wed Pe.. 0 he Right Ci She Right Circles Swing the corner like swinging on a gate— Now your own if you're not too late; Ring up four with all your might, All join in and circle right. GAILY the dancers circle and swing to the beat of the band and the command of the caller... Every happy heart in tune. What wholesome harmony; what wonderful fun... When everybody's in step and in tune, and when your partners in the dance are clean, healthy, wholesome people like yourself. Page 244 THE RIGHT CIRCLES 245 And so it is in real life, too. The circle is gay or dull, good or bad, as we find, or fail to find, the right partners and heed, or ignore, the command of the "caller." Life is a series of circles, beginning with the family circle. For this happy circle, when love and faith abide in the home, we give thanks to kind and wise parents. Working, playing, and praying together, the happy family moves from round to round in perfect rhythm. Next we widen our circles to include an ever-growing number of casual or close associates: chums of our youth, neighbors, schoolmates, club, social, business, and Church friends. Out of these circles come eventually our more enduring friendships, our lovers and sweethearts, and the permanent partners we will choose to help us start new family circles of our own. These permanent circles of association and affection will become for us, if we choose them wisely and keep in time and tune, the mght circles. In them we will find true harmony and happiness. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF <-> Old Logging Road Maude Rubin Across this sun-baked hillock, Along this rutted road, Once a lunging bullock Sweated and pulled his load. Straight logs to build a cabin, A roof to shelter love, Walls against winter's chilling, A hearth-fire warm as clove. Left scattered in wide defiance, Among these quiet stones, Were seeds of those needled giants, Sleeping in resiny cones. They woke to forgiving greenness, Thickets of youngling trees, Children of fir and hemlocks, Where time and a rain-wet breeze Unsealed each varnished pod— Then left the rest to God.