[Vol46 | April 1959 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
To encourage self-reliance in children, fastenings and plackets should YOU CAN SEW — XIV — CHILDREN'S CLOTHES — INFANTS AND TODDLERS 255 be in front within easy reach. Avoid very large or very small buttons for the child who is ready to learn to dress himself. Zippers and hooks and eyes are taboo as they are too difficult for tiny fingers. Gripper fasteners are good as the child gets a little older. All garments should have as few fastenings as possible. Pajamas or nightgowns are made on the same principle as daytime clothes. 'They should be sturdy, with firm fastenings, be easy to get in and out of, and easy to launder. They should be made in comfortable fabrics that wear well. Fashion should be important in night clothes as in day clothes. Children can look adorable in their night things if fabrics are attractive and well chosen and the styles becoming. Cotton crepe for summer wear and cotton flannel and jersey for winter are ideal fabrics. 'They are easily washed and need little or no ironing. Because infants' and _ toddlers' clothes get hard wear and need frequent laundering, plain seams are not satisfactory for use in their construction. 'I'wo sturdier-type seams that are most frequently used are the French seam and the flat fell seam. For infants' and little girls' dresses, slips, and gowns, the French seam is best. For play clothes and pajamas, the fell seam serves well. To make a French seam lay the fabric edges together, right side out. Pin or baste, then stitch, taking out half the seam allowance. 'Trim raw edges, then press the seam open or to one side. Turn to the wrong side and crease on the line of stitching. Stitch along the seam line and so enclose the raw edges. To make a flat fell seam begin by pinning or basting the seam from the right side and stitch. Press flat. Trim away one edge to within 1/4 inch of the seam line. Turn the other edge under and pin or baste flat so the raw edge is covered. Stitch close to the fold. Make extra long plackets in children's clothes, using methods discussed in Article XII, in The Relief Society Magazine for February 1959. ~~~ G randma Remsnisces Elsie McKinnon Strachan Sometimes, when loneliness offset my fear Of horse and rig, I'd call the children in, Would scrub each elbow, wash each earth-stained ear, And dress them party-clean from toe to chin. Then from the silent barn, I'd fetch Old Ned, Who, waiting always, lonely and forsaken, Returned my awkward words with toss of head And gentle whinnies.... Fearful (but unshaken ) With trembling hands, I'd put the bridle on, Gingerly fasten the tugs to whippletree— Quieting the children's noise... My thoughts upon That neighbor five miles west. Unwaveringly, I'd call "Giddap!" jarring the buggy's load, And leave my loneliness along the road. Great-Grandmother's Notebook Arlene D. I had been one of "those" days from the very beginning Janine sighed heavily. First little Joey had awakened early with a slight fever, cross and fretful, and all that would pacify him was to rock him slowly in the rocking chair. Finally he had fallen asleep, but Janine's arm where his head had rested was stiff and tired. Then Jenny had spilled a whole quart of milk across the newly waxed kitchen floor and now, not fifteen minutes later, Jenny was skipping toward her, leaving behind a trail of muddy little footprints. In her hands she was holding up a quart jar with a captive butterfly lifting lovely fragile wings to beat against the sides. "Oh, lookee, Mommie," she exclaimed, her small five-year-old face alight with excitement. "Down in the garden I found this and I." "Oh, Jenny, Jenny, I told you not to go down in that garden. I just watered last night. Now look at your shoes and my floor. Whatever am I going to do with you? Go outside and sit down on the porch this very instant. And _ stay there!" Jenny's eager little face fell, and she glanced from the glossy-winged butterfly to her muddy footprints, and then she quietly turned and slipped back out the door, clutching her jar tightly. Janine was just wiping up the mud when she heard Dave talking to Jenny outside. His voice and his step on the doorsill were heavier than usual, and when her eyes met his she knew that he hadn't received Page 256 Cloward his raise. They wouldn't be able to buy the lovely brick rambler home up in the new section of town after all. The beautiful home that they had so wanted. "I'm sorry," Dave murmured, seeking her eyes for some answer. Janine covered her mouth with her hand and fled quickly to the kitchen sink, where she silently turned on the water tap full force and began noisily rattling the dishes. She had wanted that house so! Nothing ever seemed to turn out night. Dave stood for a moment watching her, and then turned away, his broad shoulders bent dejectedly, his eyes sad. "I tried. Well I I'm on my way now to meet a client." Janine didn't reply and he left, his feet even heavier than when he had come. Just thinking about the disappointment brought new tears to her eyes, and she rubbed an arm angrily across her hot forehead, letting a soapy dish slip with a crash to the floor.