INSTRUCTIONS
======================================================================

INSTRUCTIONS. In presenting the GUIDE AND BULLETIN to you, dear sisters, we ask for your co-operation and assistance in making this trial year a success. You can do this by accepting the Lessons we have prepared, insofar as your varying circumstances will permit. We repeat what was said in the GUIDE, that all the Lessons, with the exception of the Lessons on Geneaology, are optional with each stake. You may wish to take a part of the Lessons only, and that, too, is quite agreeable with the General Board. But at least, we do ask your loyal support of the ideas contained herein, and if you should find anything in any one Lesson, or any set of Lessons which you object to, may we ask you to state that objection to us. We are giving you a certain number of GUIDES AND BULLETINS this year free of charge. But we must ask you to take care of them, for we will not be able to supply more than those first sent out, unless it be in some case of actual need. For it would be extremely expensive to make a reprint  of this or the other book hence our request. We suggest that you appoint Stake and Ward Committees in the various Lessons we have given which you may desire to take up. For instance, let there be a Committee on Geneaology in your Stake Board and in the Wards. Also Committees on Ethics, Home Gardening, Art and Architecture, Literature and Current Events. These committees will have an especial oversight of the topics and will also enable you to bring in the various talented women in your Stake and Ward to work in their several specialties. Remember, also, that these Lessons can be shortened by choosing only one or more of the sub-headings which will give you the most applicable line of thought. Our Lessons are arranged for four meetings monthly, the first for business and the work which has always occupied your time. The second meeting is devoted to testimony-bearing and Genealogy. It is vitally important that your Testimony meetings shall not be interfered with in any way. But it was thought possible to combine the subject of Geneaology with Testimony-bearing, as one supplements the other. The topics of Art and Architecture have been designed to give some practical and helpful suggestions for those who do not live where architects abound, and we have hoped that any and all of you would get at least a few suggestions which would be helpful in your own lives. It may be that few of our beloved sisters can benefit by these ideas, but there are those of the younger generation who will eagerly seek help 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN in the forming of their home ideals and in the actual building of their houses. It is for such that we have planned. In the lessons on Art we have aimed only to give a brief idea of the lives and works of our foremost American painters and artists. To those who love the beautiful these Lessons will appeal.  The Lessons on Home Ethics ethics being the study of  manners and morals have been designed to bring free discussion into our midst regarding the betterment of our home lives and home surroundings. The Parents' Classes of the Sunday Schools have led the way, and most of our sisters are already awake and alive. While we may not be able to reach these high points and ideals ourselves, we can be reading and talking of them so that our children and our grandchildren will receive this inspiration. The same is true of the work in Literature. One of the simplest and most useful books ever written in the domain of history has been chosen for your consideration, and Franklin's useful life will furnish many texts for our home circles. Thus we have sought to reach out and bring in all classes of women, interesting them in the glorious work of the Relief Society. The Current Events has been tried successfully in several Stakes and has proven so good that we now suggest it to you. But do not take too many subjects, nor too much time in this weekly resume of the world's events. Ten minutes will be sufficient if the one who conducts the exercises is familiar with her subject. In the Home Gardening for Women we have tried to awaken our sisters to some home conditions which have been neglected of late to introduce them to the wealth of nature; which lies at our doors for the planting and the garnering. It may be that few will take up this work, but those who do will be well rewarded for their pains. Indeed, we may say that we have sought to greet and meet you all in some one avenue of study and work. We do most earnestly pray that our efforts will not prove fruitless. It will be remembered that a series of Lessons on Genealogy are to be given at the next April Conference in this city, under the auspices of this Board. And we particularly ask each stake to choose two delegates to attend that Convention who have bright, quick minds, are ready and apt in taking notes and preparing lessons. For it is expected that they will go back to their Stakes prepared to assist in teaching Genealogy to the Stakes and Wards from which they come. We ask the Stake Presidents to take this matter up at once and be prepared to send such delegates for this coming Conference. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 3223-3224 THOMAS HULL ELLJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. . Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH W. N. Williams. Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt. Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I.  THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH AT YOUR SERVICE THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Preparation to make a life as well as a living. Courses in general science, liberal arts, commerce, and preparation for business THE STATE SCHOOL OF MINES Preparation for all branches of Engineering. A school in the west where a great country is in the making where the building of highways railroads, power plants, canals, and commercial and industrial structures of all kinds must push forward rapidly to keep pace with an expanding population; a school in the heart of one of the biggest mining regions of America, where are the greatest copper mines of the world, and the most extensive smelting plants. THE STATE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION Preparation for Teaching in common schools and high schools. A school that has drawn favorable attention from educators of high standing in our country, for its sensitive and sensible attitude in relation to modern educational theory. THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Offering a combined course in Arts and Medicine (four years.) THE SCHOOL OF LAW A young departOffering full preparation for the practice of law. A young department with high standards, thorough methods, and some novel advantages. All the work in these several schools is fully up to the standard requirements, and is accepted in full by the best Universities in the United States For full particulars, address UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City. Utah Z. C. M. I. GIVES SATISFACTION FOR 365 DAYS IN THE YEAR You should have the Utah Product day spirit. Then you will save money by purchasing Z.C.M.I. Factory SHOES & OVERALLS. We manufacture the following serviceable ShoesWestern, Scout, Summit, Bannock, Wyoming, Also School Shoes for Boys the famous Mountaineer and The Leader OVERALLS That dont ripare honestly made It is worth something to know you can depend upon the institution where you do your trading. That they are Strictly reliable, and that you can with safety send your children to buy knowing they will be given as good treatment as though you came in person. Our prices are never high, as low as possible consistent with the quality of the goods. Should you feel dissatisfied after making the famous a purchase, let us know. We have a reputation to up hold. 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, thing at sensible prices." Rates for room without bath S1.50andS2.00. With bath $2.50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. RELIEF BURIAL CLOTHES Relief General Board Society FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS ROOMS REASONABLE Employment Bureau in connection with home. 36 West North Temple St. Phone Wasatch 4478 J. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake Cit^, Utah WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in ease of sickness or death of 3'our bread winner or will 3"ou be compelled to look for charity'? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. & Mgr. 2nd. Vice Pres. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUKG Member Ex. Com.