[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	BRO. Joseph Horne and wife left the
city June 17th to visit their daughter, Mrs.
Spencer, in Paris, Idaho, and to attend
the wedding reception of a grand-daughter
who was recently married. They expected
to be absent two or three weeks.
	Mesdames Mary Hillom Higgs, Salt
Lake City, Annie P. Tillotson, Ogden,
Lucinda M. Patten, Payson, Utah Co.,
Marion M. Hand, Benjamin. Students
from the class of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp,
have just today passed the Territorial Med-
ical Board.
	WE want to call the attention of our
readers to the study of Political Science pre-
pared for women by a special committee,
which it is expected will help to prepare the
women of the country to vote intelligently
when the opportunity arrives, as it assuredly
will in the near future.
	SISTERS Zina D.H. Young and the writer
attended the conference of the Relief Society
of Box Elder Stake on the 11th of June and
had a most enjoyable time. The following
day, 12th, was the conference of the Y. L.
N. M. I A. Sister Minnie J. Snow came
up from the city to attend it, and Sister
Zina D. H. Young remained to take part in
the conference. Sister Zina D. H. Young
and sister E. S. Taylor attended the con-
ferences of the Relief Society and Y. L. N.
M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake, held at Ephriam
on the 28th and 29th of June and had an
excellent time.
	SONYA KOVALERSKY is the title of a
book translated from the Russian and
Swedish, the Russian translation by Isabel
F. Hapgood, the Swedish by A. M. Clive
Bagley, published by the Century Co., New
York. The book is a very remarkable one
in many ways, quite out of the ordinary
and giving the reader a good idea of wo-
man’s real condition in Russia.
The biography and memories of Sonya
Kovalersky show her as a very superior
and highly gifted woman, brilliant in math-
ematics and abstruse sciences, prophetic and
inspirational in a very great degree, acutely


sensitive on all subjects, yet the book sets
forth plainly that quality of love in wo-
man which can never be satisfied without
the devotion of an ardent lover; fame, honor,
intellect, all these she had in their com-
pleteness, “a marvel of mental develop-
ment and beautiful womanhood, a kind of
giantess of such extraordinary proportions
that you regard her with wonder arid admi-
ration.” Certainly both in Russia and
Sweden, Sonya Kovalersky was one of the
most gifted women of this century.
	MEMORIAL DAY in remembrance of the
poet and author, Sister Hannah T. King
was kept this year June 19th, at the beauti-
ful home of Sister Julia C. Howe, who was
one of Sister King’s dearest friends. About
fourteen ladies were present. The roses
and other sweet blossoms, in themselves
were a touching tribute to her memory.
Sister Howe had prepared little mementoes
on cards from the author’s “Songs of the
Heart” most of them from the poem en-
titled “Life,” these were very appropriate
having been selected for each one with
great care, and were in the hand writing
of the hostess. The conversation was gen-
eral, and the “five o’clock tea” at which
most of the ladies drank hot water, was
very enjoyable, not only for the delicious
and appetizing delicacies, but for the spirit
of love and good-will, which made all feel
happy and buoyant for the time. After
leaving the dining room, Sister Alder read
the verses which were commented upon,and
by request the writer read a personal poem
of Sister King’s addressed to Helen Mar
Whitney, which has never appeared in
print. Sweet interchanges of thought and
feeling followed, and at the close the com-
pany sang Doxology and benediction waspro-
nounced. The next gathering in honor of
the dear departed Sister King will be at the
residence of her daughter Sister Louisa
Spencer in June 1896—if all is well.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE EARLY
			DAYS.

	THE Fourteenth Ward Female Relief,
Society, organized by Bishop Hoagland
(agreeable to the request of President
Brigham Young) on the seventeenth day of
September 1856, with a President and two
counselors, a secretary and treasurer: with
power to elect other such officers as might
be needed, for the carrying out and manage-
ment of said society.
	We therefore deemed it necessary to elect
a visiting committee of nine persons, one
to each block to collect subscriptions and
enquire into the circumstances and ne-
cessities of the poor and report the same to
the President of the Society.
	We have also an Appraiser Committee of
three persons. Together with a superin-
tendence of work Committee of three per-
sons, likewise.
	Our meetings are opened and closed by
singing and prayer, and occasionally with
remarks by Bishop Hoagland, and other
brethren of the Priesthood, who may oc-
casionally call in. Also by the President of
the Society.
	Members are received or expelled by vote
according to our rules and By Laws.
			P. W. WOODRUFF, Prest.
	Phebe Woodruff, President; Mary I.
Horne and Lucinda Southworth,Counselors;
Kezia D. Pratt, Secretary; Agnes Hoag-

[Column 2]
land Treasurer; afterwards P. W. Wood-
ruff Treasurer.
	Visiting Commitee: Lavinia Taylor,
Grace Richardson, Ellen Parker, Rhoda H.
Richards, Elizabeth Pixton, Matilda Wards-
worth, N. A. Stevenson, L. Southworth,
Agnes Hoagland.
	Appraiser Committee: Phebe Woodruff,
Mary I. Horne, Lucinda Southworth.
	Superintendence of Work Committee:
Lucy L. Van Cott, Sarah B. Foss, Agnes
Hoagland.

