The Relief Society Magazine - July 1967, Vol. 54, No. 7

Rose Bower Revisited Vilate R. McAllister

From Near and Far

Over the years The Relief Society Magazine has surely been a testimony builder and a source of encouragement and knowledge, and I want to express my appreciation to you and all who contribute their time and talents to this wonderful Magazine.

Elaine Vogt College Park, Maryland

Words are inadequate to describe the true joy and appreciation that our Relief Society sisters have for the Magazine in Spanish. One has to have lived in the mission field in these areas where so little has been available in Spanish for so long to really appreciate the true feeling one has when such a beautiful publication is now made available to so many. Our missionaries have requested their subscriptions in Spanish because the Magazines are wonderful as a proselyting tool.

Glenna M. Hansen Supervisor Guatemala-El Salvador Mission

The precious joy of seeing a son build a tree house was skillfully pictured by Alda L. Brown in her poem "Tree House" in the October issue of the Magazine. Her talent is fresh and delightful, and I would enjoy seeing more of her poetry in the Magazine.

Mrs. Tess Christensen Richmond, Utah

I had to write to express my thankfulness for the beautiful story "Who Loves Here?" (first prize story, January 1967). How very true this story is. It brings to mind similar happenings. I am the mother of six precious little girls, ranging in ages from one to nine years, and, like Andrea, in the story, am expecting our seventh. I know that our girls are blessings and have brought us love and happiness.

Dona C. Parker North Ogden, Utah

In the past three years, starting from Scotland, I have traveled widely over the United States and Canada, and have had many a lonely moment, but was fortunate to have these moments warmed by reading the Magazine, and from the contents one gets strength to carry on. I hope people like me and my fellow wanderers continue to receive the friendliness of The Relief Society Magazine.

Ann Petrie San Francisco, California

Again I have received another wonderful issue of the Magazine (January 1967). I think our Magazine is a whole institution of learning and enjoyment. I have taken it since 1926, and have thoroughly enjoyed each issue. I especially liked the lovely poem "Love's Magic" by Leone W. Doxey (in January).

Helen H. Sticken Salt Lake City, Utah

Brother Burton's address (February Magazine) was surely inspirational and practical in analyzing "The Class Leader Makes the Difference." I was very much impressed with the story "A Star's Slim Light" by Alice Morrey Bailey (December 1966). It was perfect in form and content. I think I would have recognized it as hers without the name. What a marvelously gifted person she is.

Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah

We are proud and happy to have the Magazine poet Alda L. Brown in our midst, and equally happy to know that her poetry is being recognized as being worthy of presentation in the Magazine.

Mr. and Mrs. Ray Christensen Smithfield, Utah

I especially enjoy the poetry in the Magazine. "Tree House," by Alda Brown in the October issue was very good.

Mrs. Roderay Newton, Iowa

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.