[Vol35 | June 1948 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: A House By Friday (Continued)]

(Continued from page 384)

blues, and reds. I gave one look and knew it was not for me.

THAT night, more in desperation than in hope, we rode by the Lomas house. It was lighted, and after much bell ringing and waiting, we were admitted. The owner was there, assisted by three maids. Feverishly she told us that an American doctor, with no children, would occupy the house mañana en la mañana. We went quietly out.

It was Thursday morning and I had one place left, an apartment far out. It was occupied by an American lady who was moving soon, the agency said.

The lady received me; the apartment was all that one could wish, even to the lovely hued Mexican hand-woven rugs and the blonde furniture. There was only one drawback: the lady would not vacate until she could find a house for the same price. She had been looking for six months.

The end of my list had been reached. There were still some apartments in the heart of the town, but we were not going to investigate them, even as a last resort.

I made a quick decision. Calling to the driver, I showed him the address on Aguas Calientes.

"Sí, Señora," he said, wheeling his car about.

The Señora was home and she led me into the walled garden. This time I did not allow her to lead the conversation. I sat firmly on the cold tile seat and asked if we could have the house.

"Are you certain you wish it?" she asked anxiously. "It is too much for me, too upsetting of the head and heart, too much work for the maids, to have to rent it again soon. You will be satisfied? You will not want everything changed?"

"No," I said, so happy I was scarcely breathing. "It is my house. I felt it as soon as I saw it. Each night I have said a little prayer that if it were right for us to have it, you would say yes."

Her eyes grew soft. "Each night I, too, have said my little prayer that I would find the right ones to live in my house." Her face brightened. "You may have the house if you wish it."

Tomorrow, she said, was short notice, but we could move in. If the maids could not have everything in readiness, we could be patient, no?

At night we came to arrange about the lease. It would be ready in a day or two, she told us. She came to a quick understanding with my husband about the Diplomatic Proviso. Then he drew out his checkbook to pay the first month's rent. She waived it aside. Time enough to pay it, she insisted, when we were settled and the lease signed.

The moon was shining when we passed through the garden. We stood by the fountain, savoring this moment when we no longer felt like intruders in an alien land. The difficult part of our Mexican move was over.

"Yes," Mr. Tarlock said to one of the American men we met as we passed through the lobby with our bags the next day, "we have our house. Got here on Friday night and we're moving in this Friday noon. My wife did it all herself, too. Couldn't speak a word of Spanish, either. Just had to let herself go and she did it."
