[Vol35 | June 1948 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
sen  and  "Too  Frail  a  Lute"  by  Eva  Willes 
Wangsgaard  in  the  February  (1948)  issue. 
— Elaine  Swain,  Vallejo,  California 
I  am  a  convert  to  the  Church  and  have 
been  in  America  since  1923.  I  have  taken 
the  Magazine  since  1927  when  my  first 
poem  was  published  and  loved  it  ever 
since,  and  suspect  I  shall  all  my  life.  I  am 
English,  but  I  dearly  love  the  temple  spires, 
the  snow-capped  mountains,  and  the  beau- 
tiful new,  white  [aluminum]  roof  of  the 
Tabernacle. 
— Helen  Hall  McQuarrie, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
We  do  appreciate  the  inspiration  that 
the  general  board  gives  to  us  in  various 
ways.  The  March  Relief  Society  Magazine 
alone  is  worth  the  $1.50  for  a  year's  sub- 
scription. Every  person  I  have  talked  with 
since  it  came  I  have  encouraged  to  read 
it  from  cover  to  cover. 
— Jennie  M.  Butler,  Secretary 
Snowflake  Stake  Relief 
Society  (Arizona) 
Page  432 
Allow  me  to  send  greetings  from  the 
heart  of  Europe.  So  many  things  have 
happened  in  this  small  country  within  the 
past  few  months.  May  I  say  that  the  Maga- 
zine brings  me  a  great  deal  of  joy  at  this 
time,  since  it  keeps  us  up  to  date  on  Relief 
Society  affairs  at  home.  The  Magazine  is 
one  of  the  fine  publications  that  comes 
through  the  censor  and  I  do  enjoy  reading 
its  uplifting  and  educational  contents. 
— Martha  S.  Toronto,  President 
Czechoslovakian  Mission  Relief  Society 
Prague 
Thank  you  for  publishing  my  story 
"A  New  Stove  for  Mother"  in  the  April 
Magazine.  It  was  really  an  honor  to  have 
it  included  in  that  issue.  I  enjoyed  read- 
ing the  stories  by  the  other  ladies.  As  I 
was  reading,  I  thought  how  nice  it  would 
be  to  meet  and  know  some  of  the  other 
writers  who  help  make  up  the  Magazine. 
I  truly  appreciate  the  help  and  encourage- 
ment which  the  editors  have  given  me. 
— Norma    Wrathall,    Grantsville,    Utah 
v>^^>vv'^>r/^^i^ijM 
INEZ  WHITLOCK  MAKES  150  QUILT 
TOPS  FOR  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
During  the  past  ten  years.  Sister  Whit- 
lock,  of  Monrovia,  California,  being  un- 
able to  attend  the  meetings  of  the  society, 
has  contributed  her  skill  as  a  quilter  and 
her  talent  in  designing  to  make  150  quilt 
tops  of  outstanding  beauty  and  workman- 
ship. Sister  Whitlock  is  seventy-seven 
years  old.