[Vol35 | June 1948 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Addition to the Magazine]
CONTEST  ANNOUNCEMENTS— 1948 
369 
7.  A  writer  who  has  received  the  first 
prize  for  two  successive  years  must  wait 
for  two  years  before  she  is  again  ehgible  to 
enter  the  contest. 
8,  The  judges  shall  consist  of  one  mem- 
ber of  the  general  board,  one  person  from 
the  English  department  of  an  educational 
institution,  and  one  person  who  is  a  rec- 
ognized writer.  In  case  of  complete  dis- 
agreement among  the  judges,  all  stories  se- 
lected for  a  place  by  the  various  judges  will 
be  submitted  to  a  specially  selected  com- 
mittee for  final  decision. 
In  evaluating  the  stories,  consideration 
will  be  given  to  the  following  points: 
a.  Characters  and  their  presentation 
b.  Plot  development 
c.  Message  of  the  story 
d.  Writing  style 
9.  Entries  must  be  postmarked  not  later 
than  September  15,  1948. 
10.  All  entries  are  to  be  addressed  to 
Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest,  28 
Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah. 
STAY-AT-HOME 
Lael  W.  Hill 
Far  blow  the  wild  winds  over  the  land. 
Over  the  land  and  the  sea. 
Over  the  world — from  water  and  sand 
Gathering  magic  for  me. 
(How  they  sing  through  my  heart  all  the  long,  long  days 
While  I  wield  the  tools  of  my  homely  ways! ) 
"Peail-tinted  shells  lie  down  by  Tan/ore, 
Under  warm  Indian  streams. 
Under  the  edge  oi  the  ocean-kissed  shore 
Learning  their  murmuring  themes  .  .  .  ." 
(Turn  the  tap  now,  let  the  water  run  free; 
Dishes  and  pots  and  pans  clatter  at  me.) 
"Silent,  the  Sphinx  with  his  mysteried  gaze 
Keeps  vigil  close  to  the  Nile — 
Keeps  the  dark  secrets  of  Pharoah's  days 
Under  the  mask  of  his  smile  .  .  .  ." 
(Smooth  out  the  sheets,  white  as  African  sands; 
Beds  will  be  neater  for  work-at-home  hands.) 
"Lanes  of  the  ocean  call  thunderingly! 
Ships  plunging  distantly  through, 
Carry  adventure  across  the  gray  sea — 
China  .  .  .  and  Spain  .  .  .  and  Peru.  .  .  .*' 
(Straighten  the  books  that  hold  wonder,  cloth-bound; 
Dust  the  globe  quickly — and  spin  it  around.) 
Some  there  may  be  whom  the  wind-runes  impel 
To  following,  all  life  long. 
These  I  wish  joy,  and  fulfillment  as  well; 
I  have  my  work — my  song. 
(I  shall  still  own  my  dreams,  if  I  never  go 
Where  the  far,  wild  winds  of  my  longing  blow. )

For  Makers  of  Rhythmic  Beauty 
Carlton  Culm  see,  Ph.D. 
Dean,  School  of  Arts  and  Sciences,  Utah  State  Agricultural  College,  Logan,  Utah 
[Prepared  by  special  request  as  an  aid  to  poets  who  plan  to  enter  the  Eliza  R.  Snow 
Poem  Contest, — Ed.] 
WOMEN  are  born  poets.  They 
Hve  close  to  elemental 
forces,  rhythms,  mysteries. 
But  they  differ  prodigiously  in  their 
power  to  evoke  in  others  the  feelings 
that  come  to  them.  One  reason 
they  differ  is  that  some  of  them 
'play  by  ear,"  while  others  acquire 
the  art  of  poetry  and  thus  gain  tech- 
nical strength  and  richness.  For  any- 
one who  fashions  winged  words  is 
as  far  from  thrush-like  spontaneity 
of  song  as  the  radio  is  far  from  the 
wind  in  the  wires.  Because  the  gift 
for  penning  poetry  is  cultivable,  one 
may  make  bold  to  offer  a  few  sug- 
gestions to  women  poets. 
Since  the  goal  is  better  poetry,  the 
first  problem  is  to  decide  what  con- 
stitutes good  poetry.  A  true  poem 
may  be  said  to  be  a  contiihution  in 
rhythmic  and  melodious  words  to 
the  world's  beauty.  It  is  raised  above 
mere  prose  by  greater  intensity  of 
emotion,  deeper  suggestiveness,  and 
higher  beauty. 
Now  then,  if  a  woman  desires 
publication  or  a  poetry  prize,  she 
should  adopt  an  appropriate  atti- 
tude. Previously,  perhaps,  she  has 
written  simply  for  the  fun  of  it.  But 
when  she  ventures  before  the  figura- 
tive footlights— when  she  offers  her 
lyric  wares  to  the  public— she  leaves 
a  snug  little  realm  and  enters  anoth- 
er more  exacting,  more  full  of  op- 
portunity and  responsibility.  The 
atmosphere  is  that  of  competition. 
Once  she  had  only  herself  to  please; 
now  she  must  please  thousands.  She 
Page  370 
has  asserted  superiority,  and  she 
must  prove  that  she  possesses  it. 
The  obligation  of  the  creative 
artist  is,  therefore,  to  contribute, 
to  give  something,  or  to  do  some- 
thing better  than  it  has  been  done 
before. 
''Why  do  you  write  a  poem?"  a 
reporter  once  asked  Frost. 
"To  see  if  I  can  make  it  different 
from  all  other  poems,"  the  poet  an- 
swered. 
The  reporter  laughed,  but  Frost 
was  not  being  merely  flippant.  He 
meant  that  each  time  he  wrote  he 
attempted  to  create  some  new  bit  of 
beauty. 
This  article  is  not,  however,  in- 
tended to  help  heighten  the  fever 
to  be  original  at  any  cost.  That  fren- 
zy has  resulted  in  a  miscellany  of 
freakishness  which  has  fully  as  much 
connection  with  our  life  as  with  the 
life  on  Mars,  but  not  more.  These 
efforts,  impelled  by  a  desire  to  end 
imitativeness  and  sometimes,  appar- 
ently, to  cut  all  links  with  the  past, 
are  hopeless.  Shakespeare  and 
Jonson,  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge, 
Frost  and  Eliot  could  not  have  done 
it  if  they  had  wished;  and  neither 
can  we.  Nor  should  we  wish  to  cut 
our  roots.  The  great  poets  have 
gained  strength  and  stature  by  build- 
ing upon  the  mountain  of  the  past, 
and  so  can  we. 
"The  old  way  to  be  new"— the 
only  sound  way— is  to  let  the  great 
masters  of  poetry  in  all  ages  help 
you  unfold  your    own    capabilities.

FOR  MAKERS  OF  RHYTHMIC  BEAUTY 
371 
Then,  as  Emerson  urged,  'Trust 
thyself:  every  heart  vibrates  to  that 
iron  string."  You  yourself  are  truly 
a  creation  in  the  sense  of  being  a 
unique  personality.  Your  task  is  to 
see  and  feel  with  the  sensitivity  of 
this  peculiar  individuality  that  is 
yours  only,  and  to  communicate 
with  utter  sincerity  and  fidelity. 
TF  you  have  nourished  your  verbal 
conscientiousness,  you  wall  feel 
acute  discomfort  when  you  use  a 
word  that  falls  short  of  full  and  hon- 
est expression.  You  are  flatting  a 
note,  spoiling  a  song,  when  you  fail 
to  match  the  word  with  the  idea. 
But  beyond  mere  precision  is  a  re- 
quirement more  truly  poetic:  the 
need  of  suggestion.  Bald  facts  can- 
not make  a  poem,  and  mere  state- 
ments cannot  either,  no  matter  how 
tricked  out  with  meter  and  orna- 
ments. As  Frost  on  another  occas- 
ion said,  'Toetry  is  the  only  true 
thing  that  says  one  thing  and  means 
another."  Yet  poetry  is  not  duplic- 
ity. It  summons  its  powers  to  sug- 
gest the  inexpressible.  To  come  as 
close  to  the  mysteries  as  reason  and 
intuition  can  approach  and  to  sug- 
gest these  flashes  of  insight  and  faith 
through  the  most  suitable  symbols 
—that  is  the  poet's  hardest  task. 
But  I  hope  no  one  will  be  misled 
by  these  allusions  to  misty  and  re- 
mote intangibles.  The  poet  must  be 
highly  concrete  and  sensuous;  and 
he  must  realize  that  bald  and  ab- 
stract statement  is  not  poetry.  Vivid 
appeals  to  the  five  senses  are  the  raw 
materials  from  which  the  poet  fash- 
ions word-paintings,  word-sonatas 
which  delight  with  their  beauty  and 
inspire  with  their  hints  of  inexpres- 
sible meaning. 
But  there  are  other  verse  faults 
besides  abstractions  and  prosy  state- 
ments. To  pass  briefly  to  the  nega- 
tive, let  me  list  typical  faults  ob- 
served in  hundreds  of  poems: 
1 .  Threadbare  idea. 
2.  Threadbare  words,  figures  of  speech, 
and  modes  of  expression.  If  you  let  a 
pine  "sigh,"  you  will  make  your  reader 
yawn.  Calling  a  cloud  "fleecy"  turns  it 
into  a  dust-mouse  of  triteness.  And  trite 
words  are  doubly  obtrusive  in  rhyme,  such 
as  those  which  link  "strife"  with  hfe" 
and  "love"  with  "above."  Likewise,  such 
elisions  as  "o'er,"  "e'er,"  and  "'twas"  are 
relics  of  an  outworn  fashion. 
3.  Tacked-on  moral.  Br^^ant  said  it  all 
before  he  came  to  the  last  stanza  of  "To  a 
Waterfowl."  The  modern  poet  may  be  as 
moral  as  he  wishes,  but  he  suggests  rather 
than  preaches. 
4.  Padding;  stuffing  out  a  line  or  a 
stanza  with  words  merely  to  get  enough 
feet  to  satisfy  the  "meter-reader." 
5.  Weak  ending;  failure  to  sustain  the 
original  impetus. 
6.  Prosiness,  meaning  lack  of  sugges- 
tion, lack  of  fresh,  sensuous  appeals  and 
imagery,  lack  of  sufficient  intensity  and 
elevation  of  style;  in  short,  lack  of  poetry. 
After  all,  however,  poems  do  not 
succeed  because  of  the  absence  of 
minor  faults,  but  because  of  the  pres- 
ence of  strengths  and  virtues.  Two 
criteria  by  which  you  may  measure 
your  latest  poem  are  these: 
1.  Suggestions.  Does  it  suggest  some- 
thing too  elusi\e  or  deep  for  mere  prose  to 
express? 
2.  Contribution.  Is  it  the  finest  contri- 
bution to  beauty  that  you  can  create  at 
this  time? 
Suggested  Readings 
Hubbell  and  Beaty,  An  Introduction  to 
Poetry,  (Macmillan). 
L.  J.  Zillman,  The  Elements  of  English 
Verse  (Macmillan)  is  also  helpful. 
Two  Creative  Traditions,  edited  by 
Pitcher,  Baker,  and  Schramm  (Farrar  and 
Rinehart),  provides  examples  of  excellent 
writing  which  could  serve  as  "touchstones." 
R.  K.  Buell's  Verse  Writing  Simpliiied 
(Stanford  University  Press)  gives  funda- 
mentals of  the  art.

You  Can  Write  a  Prize  Winner 
Olive  W.  Burt 
Magazine  Editor^  The  Deseret  News 
[Prepared  by  special  request  as  an  aid  to  writers  who  plan  to  enter  the  Relief  Society 
Short  Story  Contest. — Ed.] 
IT  
isn't  easy  to  write  a  prize-win- 
ing story  in  any  contest— but 
it  isn't  too  difficult,  either. 
For  every  person  who  has  Kved  with 
any  degree  of  sympathy  and  under- 
standing has  locked  within  her  ex- 
periences at  least  one  excellent 
story. 
The  catch  comes  in  recognizing 
that  story  and  in  putting  it  down  on 
paper  in  such  a  way  that  others  can 
recognize  it. 
What  is  a  good  stoiy? 
Every  writer's  magazine  or  hand- 
book carries  a  variety  of  definitions, 
so  that  the  beginner  may  be  con- 
fused and  at  a  loss  to  decide  just 
what  constitutes  a  story. 
A  simple  and  adequate  definition 
seems  to  be  that  a  story  is  a  signifi- 
cant emotional  experience  sincerely 
and  simply  told.  This  definition 
covers  even  those  highly  plotted  ac- 
tion stories,  because  there  must  be 
some  sort  of  emotional  experience 
by  the  characters  if  they  ''come 
alive"  at  all  and  are  not  mere  wood- 
en puppets  acting  without  rhyme  or 
reason. 
The  first  task,  then,  is  to  recog- 
nize such  an  emotional  experience. 
It  may  be  in  one's  own  life,  or  in  that 
of  a  friend,  or  it  may  never  really 
have  happened  at  all,  but  be  merely 
an  emotional  experience  that  couJd 
happen,  given  certain  characters  and 
certain  events. 
Some  writers  have  a  store  of  such 
experiences  just  waiting  to  be  put 
Page  372 
down  on  paper.  Others  can  think 
up  one,  if  they  put  forth  a  little  ef- 
fort. Others  may  find  it  difficult 
to  decide  just  what  material  should 
be  used. 
There  are  a  number  of  simple 
devices  for  sparking  the  thought 
processes  along  these  lines.  One 
might  ask,  ''What  would  happen 
if—?"  and  then  make  up  a  situation 
—an  old  mother  was  unhappy  living 
with  her  married  children  and  was 
determined  to  find  a  home  for  her- 
self. Or— a  middle-aged  married 
woman  suddenly  found  herself  long- 
ing for  the  adventure  and  excite- 
ment she  had  never  known  while 
rearing  her  family.  Or— anything  at 
all! 
Right  here  might  be  the  place  to 
point  out  that  stories  for  the  Church 
magazines,  and  in  particular  for  The 
Rehei  Society  Magazine,  which  is 
our  present  consideration,  need  not 
be  moralistic.  That  is,  the  moral 
does  not  have  to  stick  out  like  a  sore 
thumb,  to  the  detriment  of  the  story 
and  the  annoyance  of  the  reader. 
Every  profound  emotional  experi- 
ence has  some  moral  implication. 
Let  it  stand— unemphasized  and  in 
its  rightful  place,  hidden  in  the  story 
—the  more  deeply  hidden,  the  bet- 
ter. 
H AVING  decided  on  the  emotion- 
al experience  that  is  to  be  the 
heart  and  core  of  the  story,  the  next 
problem  is  to  decide  on  the  charac- 
ters.   Usually,  the  main  characters

YOU  CAN  WRITE  A  PRIZE  WINNER  373 
will  be  obvious  as  soon  as  the  prob-  or  a  phrase  making  that  episode  dif- 
lem  is  recognized.  In  the  two  ex-  ferent  from  any  odier  that  ever  took 
amples  above  there  are  the  old  moth-  place. 
er  and  her  famliy;  the  middle-aged  A  device  for  gaining  this  definite- 
mother,  and  by  implication,  her  fam-  ness  is  to  write  the  story  in  the  best 
ily.  Only  enough  characters  should  possible  manner,  swiftly,  and  then 
be  used  in  a  short  story  to  put  the  go  back  over  each  character  and 
story  across  —  but  among  these  each  episode  to  check.  If  that  par- 
should  be  as  wide  a  divergence  of  ticular  necessary,  specific  term  is  not 
personality  as  is  possible.  there— if  the  writer  does  not  see  this 
The  situation,  too,  is  generally  in-  character,  this  episode,  vividly  and 
herent  in  the  problem  posed,  so  two  diffeientlyy     then     the     particular 
big  bugaboos  are  already  taken  care  words  can  be  inserted, 
of. 
Now— how  to  put   the   problem  TT  remains  only  to  write  the  story, 
down— how  to  reveal  the  emotional  The  author  has   her  emotional 
experience  so  vividly  and  poignant-  experience    selected;    she    has    her 
ly  that  the  reader   will    also    "live  characters  and  her  initial  situation, 
through"  the  story?  If  she  feels  the  story  authentically 
There  are  two  things  to  watch  and  sincerely,  the  events  will  follow 
here:  the  writer  must  feel  the  story ^  one  another  without  too  much 
herself.  It  is  absolutely  right  that  trouble  on  the  author's  part.  In  the 
her  tears  should  fall  or  her  chuckles  initial  situation  the  characters,  act- 
be  heard  as  she  writes.  That  is  the  ing  according  to  their  personalities, 
most  vital.  And  the  second  is  like  will  react  in  a  certain  way.  This  will 
unto  it— she  must  make  her  readers  give  rise  to  the  next  situation,  where 
feeJ  the  story,  too.  the  reaction  is  more  or  less  inevi- 
The  simplest  way  to  achieve  this  table, 
latter  aim  is  by  the  use  of  simple,  A  couple  of  warnings  here:  it  is 
direct  words   and   phrases— by   the  dangerous  and  seldom  satisfactory  in 
choice  of  specific  rather  than  gen-  a  story  to  follow   real-life    episodes 
eral  terms.  and  situations.    In  real  life  there  are 
Describe  the  characters  by  point-  so  many  intangible  and  extraneous 
ing  out  the  special  little  things  that  forces  working  upon  the  character 
make  each  one  different  from  the  that  the  reaction  can  never  be  pre- 
others.    The  old  mother  may  have  dieted  with  assurance.     In  a  story, 
faded,  pale  lips,  as  soft  and  dry   as  all  such  impalpable  influences  must 
withered   rose  petals;    the   middle-  be  disregarded,  and    the    character 
aged    wife   may  have   her    graying  must  act  according  to  the  definite 
brown  hair  brushed  back  from  her  traits  that  have  been  emphasized, 
smooth,  competent  brow;  one  rebel-  And,  as  a  general  rule,  the  charac- 
lious  curl,  only,  escaping  the  rigor  ters  should  act  in  accordance  with 
of  the  confining  combs— or  however  generally  accepted  behavior  patterns, 
she  is  seen  by  her  creator— the  au-  That  is,    only   experienced    writers 
thor  of  the  story.  should  attempt  to  show  abnormal 
Special  details  should  be  carried  reactions:  a  mother  should  love  her 
over  into  each  bit  of  action,  a  word  (Continued  on  page  430)