[Vol35 | June 1948 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]

From Near and Far Fay Tarlock, author of "A House by Friday," has recently returned to the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. Her story "The Visitors" appeared in March 1948, and 'The Kidnaping," in October 1947. Under her maiden name Fay Ollerton, she wrote stories and articles for the Magazine under the editorship of Ahce L. Reynolds and Mary Connelly Kimball. She is a graduate of Brigham Young University and holds a master's degree in English from Columbia University. Mrs. Tarlock, the mother of a young son, hves in Orinda, near Berkeley, California. Gladys Hamilton, Durango, Colorado, author of "Far Country," has had her poetry, stories, and articles appear in more than twenty national publications She is a member of the National League of American Pen Women and the Poetry Society of Colorado. May I compliment you on the beauti-ful poetry the Magazine contains. It is heartening for those of us who write to find publications of your caliber using verse. I especially liked "For Some Ap-pointed Reason" by Berta Huish Christen-sen and "Too Frail a Lute" by Eva Willes Wangsgaard in the February (1948) issue. — Elaine Swain, Vallejo, California I am a convert to the Church and have been in America since 1923. I have taken the Magazine since 1927 when my first poem was published and loved it ever since, and suspect I shall all my life. I am English, but I dearly love the temple spires, the snow-capped mountains, and the beau-tiful new, white [aluminum] roof of the Tabernacle. — Helen Hall McQuarrie, Salt Lake City, Utah We do appreciate the inspiration that the general board gives to us in various ways. The March Relief Society Magazine alone is worth the $1.50 for a year's sub-scription. Every person I have talked with since it came I have encouraged to read it from cover to cover. — Jennie M. Butler, Secretary Snowflake Stake Relief Society (Arizona) Page 432
Allow me to send greetings from the heart of Europe. So many things have happened in this small country within the past few months. May I say that the Maga-zine brings me a great deal of joy at this time, since it keeps us up to date on Relief Society affairs at home. The Magazine is one of the fine publications that comes through the censor and I do enjoy reading its uplifting and educational contents. — Martha S. Toronto, President Czechoslovakian Mission Relief Society Prague Thank you for publishing my story "A New Stove for Mother" in the April Magazine. It was really an honor to have it included in that issue. I enjoyed read-ing the stories by the other ladies. As I was reading, I thought how nice it would be to meet and know some of the other writers who help make up the Magazine. I truly appreciate the help and encourage-ment which the editors have given me. — Norma Wrathall, Grantsville, Utah v>^^>vv'^>r/^^i^ijM INEZ WHITLOCK MAKES 150 QUILT TOPS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY During the past ten years. Sister Whit-lock, of Monrovia, California, being un-able to attend the meetings of the society, has contributed her skill as a quilter and her talent in designing to make 150 quilt tops of outstanding beauty and workman-ship. Sister Whitlock is seventy-seven years old.