[Vol35 | June 1948 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Definition Freckleton]

DEFINITION John M. Freckleton But yet, Prayer, more than words, Combines the humble attitude With inarticulate beseeching. As if The troubled spirit-child, With hungry, searching arms, Unto his Father-God were reaching. Page 396
Far Country Gladys I. Hamilton THE conductor touched Ann T Medford's trim-suited shoulder and Murmured, "We're coming into Rockwood how, Miss, Our station," "Thank you," Ann said Pleasantly, but her hands were so clammy cold with nervousness that her new gloves were wet. For the hundredth time since leaving Ohio, and her home, Ann wondered if Jim would like her. And, would she like him?
Would he still be, man-like, expecting to see her as the eighteen-year-old girl he had been engaged to twenty years ago?
Would he be shocked at what those years had done to her pink and white complexion, her soft, brown hair and trim ankles? She hoped that life had probably changed him more than it had her. Ann was still slim, and her skin quite good. A few silver strands threaded her hair, for there was no denying that the years had left some trace of their passing. She gathered her things from the hat rack, put her gloves in her purse, then took them out again. She stood up, but the train was still in motion, so she sat down again. She felt as fluttery and unpoised as a school girl, more so, for she hadn't the least idea what she should do or say when she saw him! Jim would be waiting on the platform, naturally, in plain sight, since Rockwood was such a small prairie town. She needn't get off the minute the train stopped. She could peek out the window and if Jim didn't look . . . well . . . "right," she would just remain on the train and go on to California. Her ticket read straight through, anyway. Ann and Jim had re-discovered each other only a few weeks ago through a mutual friend who had met Jim in Pendleton at the rodeo. Jim had written first from his ranch in Nevada, and Ann had answered. In the course of correspondence they both marveled that neither had married in all the intervening years. Timidly, they mentioned their old love, and the lover's quarrel in which Ann's mother had taken sides against Jim, which had resulted in Ann's yielding to her mother's wishes and breaking off the engagement. Jim, his young pride crushed, had gone away shortly afterward. So the immediate question of their letters was, could they still fan the flame of that old love into the joyous wonder that it had been at eighteen and twenty-two?
They both fervently admitted that the fire had never really died, that no other person had interested either one of them, even mildly. Of course they wanted marriage and a home! The joy of marriage and children had been denied them in their youth, but there was still time to make a good life together. It was worth trying, they had concluded. "I know my mind," Jim had written, "but you must decide, little Ann, for if you follow your heart you will be coming to a far country." 398 THE train screeched to a stop and the ding-dong of the engine's bell sent shivery reverberations through Ann's breast. 'The porter, with her suitcases, was beckoning toward the door so that she had no time to scan the platform. She bit her underlip.
What if she couldn't stand Jim?
What if he wore untidy clothes, and.... And had acquired bad habits! Well, she thought, a person can always be honest and say she has made a mistake. But Jim wasn't there! 'The depot's weathered, splintery old platform was the most deserted, desolate spot she had ever set foot on in all her life! The conductor must have noted her look of horror, for he said calmly, "We'll be here ten minutes, Miss." Had she really, deep in her heart, expected Jim to meet her? No. For the first time, she was inclined to agree with her mother's judgment of his character. Ann tried to cover her disappointment and surprise from the gaze of the other passengers by walking briskly to the far end of the platform and looking off into the desert. The odor of sagebrush was pleasantly strong. It was the first time she had ever smelled it, but she knew instinctively what it was, and she liked it! But her inner being felt hollow with terror. Had Jim at the very last moment decided that he couldn't face her? She knew that the habits of middle age were hard to fling aside.
Perhaps he had suddenly realized the contentment of bachelorhood's unfettered days! "This is western scenery, Ann," she told herself. "Enjoy it!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1948
The sun was shining with a dazzling brilliance on the shimmering prairies stretching for endless miles on either side of the bleak little station. She thought that she had never seen such cloud-dotted blue, blue sky.
Miles to the north, purple mountains broke the line of the horizon. Jim once said that he lived north of the railroad. A man was hurrying up the track from the big, red water tank, and Ann held her breath.
Could that be Jim? But no, this man was small and his hair, under his cap, was snowy white. "Mornin', Ma'am! Can I he'p ya?" he asked pleasantly. "I—I was to meet a Mr. James Wallace. But he isn't here. Did— is there a message?" "No, Ma'am, I ain't seen Jim fer..." He scratched his tumpled locks in thought. "Why, I ain't seen Jim fer two weeks come Monday. He come down to get some freight.
Kinda fancy stuff, too, 'pears to me!" he added with a wink. The engine's bell began to clang and great puffs of black smoke darkened the sky. Ann thanked the old man and, with a stiff little smile frozen on her lips, climbed aboard the train and returned to her seat, while the porter brought back her bags. She tried to lose herself in the rhythm of the clicking wheels as the train gathered momentum.
Perhaps it was better this way. The years might have done queer things to that lovable boy she had known and adored. It was quite possible that she could hate him as a man!
What to do now? Go on forever in the Hallerton Library? She even chuckled at the mental picture of FAR COUNTRY herself handing out weighty tomes to the literati of Hallerton, dressed in those new western togs folded so neatly in her suitcase, depleting her clothes' budget for a year! The train made another ten-minute stop at Cottonwood, but Ann did not raise the curtain, caring not at all that this was a sizable town of the real West, another part of her dream.
Right now she had no taste for a country that could make a man so changeable that he did not know his own mind for more than four days at a time! For Jim's last letter had been ecstatic with anticipation. The vast prairies could be cruel, too, she supposed. The train gathered more miles under itself, nosing out toward the Coast. Ann supposed that something would help her decide what to do in due time. New friends, new hobbies, anything to keep from _remembering. The porter roused her, "You Miss Medford?" "Why... Yes, I am." Ann straightened with surprise and thought that something dreadful must have happened to her brother and his family back home—her only relatives. THE porter handed her, not a telegram, but a folded piece of paper. "A gentleman asked me to hand this to you, Miss." Jim's writing! All the color drained from Ann's face, and for a moment she could not force herself to read his words for fear of what they might say.
Probably the very thing she had 399 reasoned out for herself. He had changed his mind! The porter stood patiently in the aisle, as if waiting for a tip, or an answer, or both. Ann read quickly: Dearest Ann: Heaven doesn't come to me easily, it seems. I was hurt this morning by a horse, not badly, but enough so that my partner had to rush me to Cottonwood where the doctor fixed me up before train time. 'Telegraphed and learned that you were aboard. I'm bedded down in a compartment.
Guess you'll have to come all the way, sweetheart. Love, Jim. Ann's big moment was still before her! She trembled and a crimson spot burned in each cheek. Her heart was pounding like a tom-tom as she followed the porter's broad back. At length he paused, then motioned her inside. "Ann! Oh, little Ann! I knew you'd look just like this." Jim's pleasant voice came vibrant and tender from the white pillows. And there was Jim. Her old lovable Jim! A trifle heavier, perhaps.
More masculine. She noted that the years had painted his crisp black hair slightly gray at the temples, too; but he seemed the same grand person her daydreams had pictured him. "Oh, Jim," Ann whispered as she dropped down beside him. "I... I don't know what to say! The past..., Our.... Our future....