Literary Section Miss Alice L. Reynolds, member of General Board, conducting
WHAT IS LITERATURE?
Julia A. Lund, member of General Board
A nation's literature is the outcome of its whole life. Its growth, in kind and degree, depends upon four main agencies: First, Race, or hereditary dispositions; Second, Environment?physical and social conditions; Third, Epoch or Spirit of the age; and Fourth, perhaps the most important, Person, or reactionary or expressive force.
The greatest glory of the English-speaking race is the magnificent stream of literature from Beowulf to Thomas Hardy. Of all the privileges we enjoy in this world of opportunity today there is none, perhaps, for which we ought to be more thankful than for the very easy access we have to books. It is just as true now, as the Bishop of Durham said in 1344, that "The library of wisdom is more precious than all riches, and nothing that can be wished for is worthy to be compared to it." This is a very busy world in which we live today. The demands upon our time are so great that if we would reap the richest harvest from our efforts in this vast field of learning, we must use great care in our choice of study. This has been the great object in our literary lessons? to suggest to our sisters what books to read and how to read them. This is the aim of all students of Literature; and what is Literature? We find it difficult to define; for literature is like happiness, or love, or life itself, in that it can be understood or appreciated, but never be exactly described. If one must formulate a definition, literature 
 is the written record of man's best thought and feeling. In its broadest sense it includes all writing; but as we commonly define the term now, it excludes the works which aim at instruction, such as books on science, history, or philosophy. Their field is knowledge and power?they appeal to the intellect. Literature, as we understand the term, means that large class of writing consisting of poems, plays, essays, stories of every kind, to which we go for happiness or counsel, for noble thoughts or fine feelings, for rest of body or exercise of spirit. They appeal chiefly to our imagination and our emotions; they awaken in us a feeling of sympathy or admiration for whatever is beautiful in nature or society or the soul of man. True literature is divided into two great classes?Poetry and Prose. Of the two, poetry was the first to be developed. The greatest names in the literature of the world are those of the poets. This may seem strange to us of the twentieth century, who have seen in our own day the great popularity of prose literature, as is shown by the flood of novels, short stories, prose plays, essays, magazine articles and other forms of prose that have streamed forth from the printing press of all lands. Important as these are, we shall have to admit that no prose writers have ever equaled David, Homer, Virgil, Dante, Shakespeare or Milton. We have said that literature depends upon four factors? race, environment, age, and author. It is through the last?the author?that we understand the other three. If we wish to know a people fully, we shall find the historical account alone inadequate for our purpose. History tells us what man has done; Literature tells us how he has felt in doing it. History will show us what place a people has won among the nations and what part they have played in the progress of the world, but regarding their innermost thoughts and feelings, their real life, it will have little to say. This information can be obtained only from the literature which they themselves have brought forth. The historical records, valuable as they are, will often be misleading if we do not see the other side of the shield?if we do not understand the thoughts and emotions that lie back of the deeds. Literature is the treasure-house of ideals. One who is not guided by ideals is worthless, even dangerous, to society. Literature not only stores up the noblest ideals that the world has known, but it inspires and fosters these in others. Therefore, since literature reveals the deepest thoughts and feelings of the human race, cherishes the ideals that lie at the basis of all that we hold to be most precious in our world today, and helps us to understand more fully this complex life that we have to live, it is one of the most valuable and really practical subjects that we can pursue. One ancient writer said that without literature the world would be a body without a soul. "In books we have the choicest thoughts of the ablest men, in their RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309 best dress." Literature, in a word, teaches us to live creatively and to search for the sources of spiritual power. PRESENTATION OF TWO CANADIAN AUTHORS Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Member of General Board I am to follow with a word or two on the two Canadian poets we are to take up in the course. Last spring there was a convention of Western poets held in the city of Seattle,?a rather new venture, I take it, from some reports. The honored guest of that convention was the veteran poet, Charles G. D. Roberts, of Canada, a man who has almost a strategic position in the poetry and literature of Canada. You know, a nation may muddle along for years with something that looks like poetry but that is really not poetry. Then, if there arrives one who possesses something of the mastery of technique, there is hope that a literature may be born. Charles G. D. Roberts did just that thing, which was his first contribution to Canadian literature. He proved to the nation of which he forms a part that he had mastered the technique of poetry and could be a finished versifier when he chose to be. Now to him there came a great occasion. Sixty years ago the different provinces of Canada became united under one head. The Articles of Confederation made of that country a dominion, and we have ever since spoken of that land as the Dominion of Canada. Last year all over the Dominion they were having wonderful celebrations in all the provinces because of the joy they felt that a union had been effected. Now at this moment Mr. Roberts got the inspiration of the hour and wrote these lines: O Child of Nations, giant-limbed, Who stand'st among the nations now Unheeded, unadorned, unhymned, With 'unanointed brow,? How long the ignoble sloth, how long The trust in greatness not thine own? Surely the lion's brood is strong To front the world alone! Clearly a clarion call for Canada to throw off the servitude, in a sense, that she had retained toward the mother country, to come out in the light and show that within her own dominion was plenty of material for a worthy literature. That is the second contribution?the contribution of patriotism, that should be played up in any lesson on Roberts. Then he roused a whole group of other poets to write, and because of that inspiration, Canada had a Renaissance of literature. That is the third point. And the fourth point is that this man was a great revelator of the beauties 
 of nature. J. D. Logan says of him: "No other writer known to me has more intimately associated his mind and spirit with every object and phase of nature. His poetic descriptions are vividly real, and exquisite in beauty of expression, whilst his animal stories in felicitous literary English, in accuracy of particulars, in intensity of dramatic interest, are beyond criticism." I must pass to the other Canadian author, and I am sure you will all feel sorry that we have not time to give more attention to our poets from the great northern land. Once France had a painter. He could see the beauty of simple, humble life, and he began to paint French peasants. He painted "The Angelus;" "The Gleaners;" ?The Reapers;" and the whole world opened its eyes and recognized in these marvelous paintings undying masterpieces. In Canada on the east they had a poet, William Henry Drummond, who became acquainted with the people of the prairies near Montreal, a people who when they spoke sometimes used English words, sometimes French words; but he recognized in their life rare beauties, and he has given us some simple but undying masterpieces that are exquisite and beautiful and perfect, just as Millet's paintings are exquisite and beautiful and perfect. If I were talking to you of Millet this afternoon, I should think it my duty to have the pictures of Millet here that you might see them, so I have conceived it my duty to present some one to you who can read the poems of William Henry Drummond; and I take very great pleasure in introducing Mrs. Helen Henderson Pratt, who reads Drummond's poems in an effective and telling manner. Mrs. Helen Henderson Pratt Read 'The Habitant,' 'De Nice Leetle Canadienne," and "Little Bateese."' After the reading Mr. Hyrum J. Christianson sang "Little Bateese,'' accompanied by Eva J. Olson. A GROUP OF ORIGINAL POEMS Mrs. Elsie C. Carroll My dear sisters: I feel very highly honored in having the privilege of appearing on this wonderful program to which we have listened this afternoon. I want you to know that I also feel very humble in trying to give anything of my own to you. When I look into your faces and realize who you are and what your experiences and your lives have been, when I think of the things for which you stand and of the work you are doing, I certainly feel humble in presuming that anything I may offer will be of value to you. I also know enough about literature and, I believe, have a keen enough appreciation of it, to know  RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 311 that my small efforts can not be classed as literature, and yet I have enjoyed very much the efforts that I have made in this The first lines that I shall read were written about fifteen years ago when my children were very small and when it seemed to me that all my time was taken up in washing dirty little hands and faces and mending little stockings and feeding little stomachs, ?when it seemed that the drudgery, or what seemed the drudgery, of homemaking and mothering, took al] my time; and sometimes if I had time. Then, one day, my own dear mother, who had So cheerfully, happily, and sacrificingly given the toil and love and sacrifices of 4 lifetime in bearing and rearing a family of twelve children?said something to me that made the scales fal| from my eyes and helped me to realize that I had a privilege in mothering my children, in doing something more truly great than any other thing I might attempt to do, if I did it right. And she helped me to realize, if I put Something into that never. Ending task of washing and mending and cooking and attending to the various needs of my children, that [ was really creating to express in the following lines which I have called "My Masterpiece? "MASTERPIECE By Elsie C. Carroll Oft to my soul there come stealing, Sweet visions of consummate art: Statue, a picture, a poem, And there awakes in my heart A longing to carve the fair image, To color the picture sublime, To sing for the world the sweet poem: O create a great masterpiece?mine  But e'en as I reach for my chisel fr Canvass and brush, or my pen, And open the door to fancy, I'm brought to the present again. An echoing laugh may recall me: A shrill cry of pain or of fear; A small grimy hand on my elbow; A sweet whispered word in my ear, And away go my visions a-winging Back to the fount whence they came; 
 Before me untouched is my marble, My canvas is white, my song but a name; I turn to the needs of my babies And gazing into their dear eyes, I thrill with the sense of contentment? In their future my masterpiece lies. The great poet Shakespeare has told us that "sweet are the uses of adversity."" Perhaps when adversities are freshly upon us it is very difficult for us to realize the truth that anything of sweetness will come out of them; but later we can look back and understand that out of our sufferings, blessings have truly come; and so out of a great personal loss that came to change my life, I can now perceive, as a sweetness out of that suffering, an appreciation of friends and friendship that I had never known before. FRIENDSHIP By Elsie C. Carroll I did not know what friendship meant Till trouble came to me; I did not know the many ways That friends could friendly be. I did not know how many hands Would help me bear my cross; I did not know how many hearts Would sorrow at my loss. I did not know the blessedness Of just a word; a tear; The pressure of a hand; a sigh; The silent standing near And breathing just a little prayer That shines from out the eyes; Of just a written line of hope;? All these I've learned to prize. And I have learned the world can't be As empty as it seems, When all one's love and joy are dead. The light of friendship gleams. And like a little torch it sheds A halo in the dark? A radiance that warms and spreads Until it strikes a spark, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 313 Within the soul made desolate, On humble knees I bend And pray that I may learn to be n times of need?a friend! A GROUP OF ORIGINAL POEMS By Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer poem of humanity; and God is the author, Religion, then, is Poetry, and Poetry is religion. At times we are all poets, for poets are merely people who see a little deeper significance in the every-day things of life, and have a keener sense of the relation of these ideals to the scheme of things entire. You have all experienced moments, perhaps wrapped up in joy or sorrow or disappointment, wherein you have had a spiritual influence ; and that is just akin to the feeling that a person has who receives an inspiration to write a poem. The  successful poet, of course, is a person who can take that little incident in life, interpret it in his own way, and put it in beautiful language ; in other words, he catches a grain of truth, wraps it in a robe of beauty and gives it to the world ; but he does not sit down and say, "Today I must give the world my little truth," as a Boy Scout says "Today I must do a daily good turn." He begins with an impression resulting from an experience which he has had recently or years ago; he begins to write ; and, as all things seek the ultimate reason for their being, his poem seeks truths as the river seeks the sea ; and a great many poets have told us that they are just as much surprised as their readers at the poem when it is finished. A poet has said that every man would speak if he had been well nurtured in his mother tongue, so that the only difference between the most of us and the rest of us is perhaps that some have been a little better 314 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nurtured in their mother tongue and can express the feelings that all the rest of us have. To have great poets, we must have great audiences. Until you people who are enjoying poetry recognize a poet, he is not a poet. Until you appreciate a poem, that poem is not a poem. And so, of course, people who are writing are at the mercy of the readers, because a poet never knows how his poems will be received by the audience. I thought, at least as long as I am not a recognized poet, I would read the poems that have been recognized; but I thought that would be rather cowardly, so I will read one old one and a couple I have written recently. Perhaps the most interesting thing about a song is the little story that tells how the author came to write it, and so it is with a poem. When my little son was four years old, a friend was visiting me and said, "You have written scores of poems about that boy, haven't you?" I said, "No, I haven't written one." She said, "How terrible to have a child as darling as that and not to have written a poem about him." I said, "I have hardly felt capable of putting him into verse." But it was not very long before I realized I could put my son into verse. The poem is called "Child": CHILD (To David) Dreamer, Questioner, Teller of tales, You stand before me and I see Great visions in your eyes, Visions unknown but wise? You know Eternity. But Life as yet is just a parable To ponder on; Revealing year by year Man's blundering apprenticeship to God: And you, a stranger in a foreign land, As yet can't understand. But you can take the bits of wonderment Fast slipping from your once-celestial hold, And blending them with Earth's-most transient lights Great tales unfold; Tales that make wise men gape, And rich men stare, And both turn to the cross again In prayer. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE  The other day a friend who is housebound called me and said, "I am terribly upset today; some one just called me up and scolded me for half an hour. It isn't scolding I need. I know I am a little discontented with my lot, although I have my radio, and everything, but what I miss is a little bit of living life.' That was the best way she could express it, and it meant a great deal? a little bit of living life. After I had hung up I thought that is what we are all craving?a little bit of life just as God gave it, without being adulterated by man's hand, without being made too scientific or too perfect, and I wrote this poem called "Housebound." HOUSEBOUND Bring me a bowl of heaven's blue, And dash my days with gold; I need the elixir of Spring, My heart is growing old; Bring me a youth and a maid in love, Their lips new-pledged with vows; Bring me a laughing, unkempt boy, Tumbled from apple boughs; You send me books and music discs All technically right, I want a bit of artless love To glorify my sight; I want impulsive laughter, (Quite forgetting I am old); I want my soul wrapped up in blue And crowned with heaven's gold. Because we all love children's poems, I am going to read this one. Not so very long ago I caught myself singing on a rainy day ?something that never happened before in my life, because rain has always depressed me. As I turned from my dishwashing, I saw my little boy on the floor looking at me with a queer expression on his face. I thought, "Why shouldn't I sing? I have had a wonderful past and a future that is bright. I do not know why the rain should affect me that way." I stopped washing dishes and wrote this poem called "Rainbows": RAINBOWS All day mother sang at her housework, while I Was terribly cross at my play: I couldn't go out, and my games wouldn't fix, And it just kept on raining all day. 
 I wondered how mother could sing while the rain Was spoiling the blue in the sky, And splashing the window panes recently cleaned, I couldn't help wondering why. So I asked mother dear why she sang at her work, And she answered me laughing, "You know, If I lined up the thoughts I've been thinking about, They'd look like a pretty rainbow;
"For I've two pots of gold called the future and past, And they're chuck full of dreams bright and gay, So from them I build me a rainbow bridge To brighten the rainiest day."
I didn't quite understand how it could be, But mother makes wonderful things; And now I have rainbows inside of me, too, Whenever it rains and she sings.