=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===

CONTENTS
Frontispiece
Relief Society Conference—
Officers' Meeting (Morning Session) 292
Officers' Meeting (Afternoon Session) 298
Theology Section 304
Literary Section 310
Social Service Department 314
Choristers and Organists' Department 318
General Session (Morning) 324
General Session (Afternoon) 334
Substitution Alberta Huish Christensen 341
Be With Me, Lord Annie Pike Greenwood 342
June Christie Lund 343
The Great Salt Lake Linda S. Fletcher 344
Work and Business 348
Pictures 350
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy

=== GENERAL BOARD ===

THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY VOL. XV JUNE, 1928 No. 6 Relief Society Conference Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held April 4 and 5, 1928, in Salt Lake City. President Clarissa S. Williams presided. She was assisted by Counselor Jennie B. Knight, who conducted the meetings. The following sessions were held: An officers' meeting for general stake and mission officers; three department meetings; a breakfast session for stake and mission presidents; and two general sessions. The department meetings, which were an innovation, proved to be most satisfactory. The departments featured were the Theological, the Literary, the Social Service, and the department for choristers and organists. ' On the evening of the first day, an elaborate pageant known as the Relief Society Review and presented under the supervision of the Salt Lake county stakes, was given. The original presentation was on March 16th by the Salt Lake county stakes, in honor of the anniversary of the Relief Society. The Review commemorates the founding of the first Salt Lake stake Relief Society, which occurred in 1877. It was repeated at the request of the General Board for the Relief Society representatives at the conference. This magnificent production was greatly appreciated; the Tabernacle was filled again as at the initial performance. An interesting feature of the conference was the display, at Relief Society headquarters, of work done at the Work and Business Meetings of the Salt Lake county stakes and arranged by the officers of these stakes. There was almost every kind of article one could think of, from ordinary made-over clothing and other practical pieces, to the most exquisite art creations. The conference was well attended by enthusiastic workers from 98 out of the 99 stakes, from the European mission and from six of the missions in the United States. Official roll call at the General Officers' meeting showed the following representation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE : General Board members, 20; stake and mission officers, 581, including 76 stake presidents, 109 counselors, 52 secretary-treasurers, 24 choristers, 19 organists, 295 other ward members, 6 mission presidents; total, 601. In addition to the stake and mission officers a large number of ward officers attended the department meetings and general sessions. The registration in the departments was as follows: Theological and Literary department, 600; Social Service department, 550; Choristers and Organists department, 176; total, 1326. The General Session filled the Assembly Hall to capacity, the number reaching 2400 at the afternoon session. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Chorister, and Miss Edna Coray, Organist,

=== UNCOVERED TEXT ===

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123


