General Session (Afternoon Meeting) COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON My heart has been filled with gratitude for the spirit that has been with us during this conference. I was impressed while witnessing the Relief Society Review. When I saw those ward Relief Society presidents march up the aisle, it was inspiring; their faces had with them, no matter what complexion or what feature, a look almost of divinity, and I thought "Why?" First the thought came to me, it is because of the service they have rendered. Then I thought that even back of that there is something else. It is the manner in which they have rendered the service and met the problems of life. Some time ago I read an article entitled, "Which Window Do You Look From?" It told how, on one side of a man's house, there was one window through which he looked out on a scene of depression?unpainted houses, unwashed windows, unkempt yards, and everything depressing; but there was another window through which he saw a beautiful home, with lovely shrubs and flowers; and even when the flowers were gone in the winter and rains and winds came, there was peace and courage there. Compare RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 935 these views and those he had from the windows of his soul, as he looked out upon life. He could see the jealousies and the envies, the untruths and the falsifying, and the ugly things of life; or he could look out upon the beautiful promises made by our Father in heaven. We may doubt the word of man, but we cannot doubt the word of God. He has given us his word, that he is with us always, although we are not where we can see him. He says, "Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end." In our Doctrine and Covenants, Section 6, he says, "Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not." Through his beloved John he said, 'Behold I stand at the door, and knock; if any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me." (Revelations 3:20). Physical culturists tell us, if we will breathe deeply for so many minutes each morning, that all through the day we shall continue to breathe deeply. I wonder if we ought not to apply that to our prayers. We all pray in the morning; but too quickly we forget and start worrying; and we think, if this happens today or if that happens today, we cannot endure it. We forget, and look out of the wrong window of our soul. Of course, we must meet problems in life; they are here for us to meet, and we could not be strong if we had not to meet them; but we can meet them by looking out of the right window of the soul, and know that our Father's word is true today, just as it was when he uttered it, "Lo, I am with you always." I think of how far I drift away from what I could be. When we read that the Psalmist said, "The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want," it seems to me that we should trust the shepherd always watching over us?''He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, and leadeth me beside the still waters." So if we could, in our lives, always look out of the window of faith, then we could be comforted by the forty-sixth Psalm, "be still and know that I am God." Just a word from the General Board in appreciation of the great kindness of our sisters when we go out into the stakes. I think you will never know what it means to us, after we have had an all-night ride and we come to your place dusty and unkempt, to find you so courteous, lovely, and hospitable to us. It makes our work easier. We appreciate you for all the work you are doing. When the report is read of how many days were spent with the sick, I wonder if you realize what a great thing you are doing and what it means to people in trouble. My heart goes out in loving tenderness to you women who serve and help to make life more lovely for others. Mrs. May Booth Talmage's address will appear in a later issue. 
 PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY It has certainly been an hour of rare enjoyment to be with you and listen to your songs, your prayers, and your speakers, and to become a little better acquainted with the great work you are accomplishing. This is a wonderful organization. In good works. I think it the most efficient, possibly, of any auxiliary organization. It was wonderful to behold, as I did a short time ago, the magnificent Review which you put on in the Tabernacle?a demonstration of the force, power, magnitude and glory of your work. With tears in my eyes, I beheld those dear sisters, especially the ward presidents from all these different stakes, marching down the aisles of the Tabernacle, and I thought what a wonder. What a marvel is this great work of the Lord. As I looked on that scene in the Tabernacle, I thought in my heart, I wish the Prophet Joseph Smith could be here now and see what we are witnessing. I think we hardly realize what it all means. I know it is difficult for me to sense to the fullest the grandness, the glory, the majesty, of this work. It cannot be done. The human mind cannot grasp it. It extends back into the eternities of the past and through this gleam of time that we call now, into the eternities of the future. I know the sacrifices that you sisters make. I know how much the bishops of the wards depend upon the Relief Society for help. The presidencies of stakes and the brethren who stand at the head, the Presidency and Apostles, also know very well that your work is rare and choice indeed; and there is nothing but praise, all praise, all honor, to the noble, splendid labors of our sisters. God bless you, my dear sisters, in this glorious work of your Master, our Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. When Sister Talmage spoke to ts concerning these gatherings in the old countries, held under such great difficulties, and the sacrifices these people make for the spirit of the work and the upbuilding of it, I thought how wonderful it all is. I thought it nearly as wonderful as the words of the Savior to the boy prophet, a small boy, unlettered, with no chance for education, one of the most unimportant, probably, of young men, or certainly not important at all; and yet that unimportant, unlettered personage, without schooling, was told by the Lord that his name would be had for good and for evil among all the nations of the earth. How marvelous and yet how true! How the Lord is magnifying his work and adding to it and strengthening it and building it up! We are here to perform the labor that we are called upon to do, in humility, in obedience, in faithfulness, in sacrifice, if need be, to build up the kingdom of God, to make it great, so that the name of our God shall be great and honored in the earth, and men shall know as we know that the power of the living God is with his Church and his people. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Jov I, too, have visited Europe and more than once?in fact, six different times have I visited and traveled extensively there; and while I could not understand the language in Germany, Holland, Sweden, Norway, I could understand and feel the spirit of the Saints, which I found always the same. I was thrilled with their singing, their prayers and speaking, and bearing of testimony, in languages I did not understand. With power the spirit of the Lord is with you, my sisters; and I say again, all honor, all praise to the magnificent work that you are doing. The Lord bless your presidency, your General Board, presidencies of stakes, and all the faithful workers, those who sing for you; the ward presidents, who do the labor, the most of the real hard labor, although there is hard labor done even at the head. I know Sister Lyman here?no one has worked any harder or done any more real hard labor and work than she has; and so have the others; we all do our share; but I pray that the Lord will give us the spirit of the work, that we may accomplish it to his name's honor and glory and to the upbuilding of his kingdom and the establishment of his kingdom in the earth. MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary of Relief Society In addressing a great audience like this?such a wonderful audience of such good and capable people?I feel weak and timid; but I believe we all consider it a privilege and an honor to testify of the goodness of God to his children, of the blessings which have come to us from the gospel. While Sister Talmage was speaking of these various countries in Europe, I was thinking also of the women who are working in the islands of the sea. If we could circle the globe, we should be astonished at the things being done all around the world by Relief Society women. I have had the privilege of visiting the Relief Society women in Hawaii and seeing them at their work, seeing them preside at their meetings, and hearing them speak and pray in eloquent fashion. I visited their work meetings and saw the beautiful quilts, baskets, mats, and other things which they are making to raise funds for their charity work. In the Tahitian Mission the women pick cocoanuts and dive for pearls to raise money for Relief Society work. Sister Sessions tells how women in South Africa cook and sell food for the same purpose. In Armenia they weave rugs and make lace to add to their treasury. Sister Valentine, who is in the German-Austrian Mission, introduced the cafeteria luncheon there at the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Brother Maeser, serving all the people with meals at 10c each. When Sister Hart spoke this morning about our missionaries and how hard their work 
 is because of unbelief in the world, I was reminded of something. I shall read it to you: "The final forces in human society are always the spiritual forces. The civilization of Central Europe did not go to smash in the summer of 1914, and in those fateful years which followed, for lack of brains. The disaster did not come because people did not know any better. Nor did it come from lack of wealth or of energy. The world had never been so rich nor so strong, in its ability to harness the elemental forces of earth and sky and sea to the task of human betterment, as it was in the opening decade of the Twentieth Century. The civilization of that fair and promising section of earth went to smash for lack of character. The people of Europe were not good enough to do the things which ought to have been done; they were not good enough to leave undone things which never should have been done. "And the recovery of Europe to its normal estate in these strange, hard days, is being held back chiefly, not by a lack of money or of material, not by a lack of knowledge or of brains, but mainly by the spirit of fear, of suspicion, of hatred between man and man, between land and land. "In my judgment the main hope for this torn and baffled world is to be found in religion. It puts first that which is first. It faces men in the right direction by an orientation of interest and desire which is valid. It calls upon them to seek first the rule of the divine spirit in their own hearts, to the end that all the other things demanded for worthy and joyous existence may be added in their proper order." Now the basic fact in religion is faith in God. We cannot have religion without God. We can have morals or ethics. But these carefully devised programs for human action lack the deeper source of motive and stimulus needed to nerve men for the hard tasks. The man of faith, sure that God is with him and for him, faces the field undaunted. "The Lord of Hosts is with us,' he says. "The God of Jacob is our refuge?therefore we will not fag" I have recently had an experience which has caused me to appreciate more deeply my religious heritage. I was associated for two or three weeks with a woman who styled herself an atheist. She told me she did not believe in God; nor in a pre-existence, nor in a hereafter; nor in the so-called mission of Jesus Christ, although she thought he was a good man, probably the best man that ever lived. This woman had been brought up with every opportunity. Left an orphan with plenty of money, she had attended church when a little girl, as had her husband; but they drifted away and became unbelievers. She was a woman of education and refinement and had traveled extensively. She was morally and ethically sound, optimistic, cheerful, charitable and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 339 kind to the poor. Her husband was dead and two of their grown children had passed away, leaving her practically alone. I asked her if she expected to see her husband and her beautiful daughters again; she said no, that it was all finished. I asked her what she thought had become of them. She said, "I think the life that was in them, the spirit you call it, has gone into the forces of nature, and the material part has gone into the elements of earth." I asked her how she could be so optimistic and happy and cheerful, and she said, "Everybody must meet the same fate and I am no better than anybody else; this is everybody's lot." And so she was reconciled. Every time I talked to her, I was almost overcome with gratitude for my knowledge and for being brought up in a religious home. I am thankful, grateful, that I know God lives, answers prayers, and will receive us in that heavenly home; that Jesus Christ is his son; that the gospel has been restored. Because of this experience these things are broader and bigger to me than they have ever been before. The greatest thing in the world is the gospel; the greatest realities are spiritual. Other good things are important, but the transcendent force is the spirit within us. Thankful, as I am sure you are, for our background is practically the same, that my parents were drawn to this Church just as iron filings are drawn to a magnet, I am, thankful, also, that my father was willing to leave his comfortable home in the South and cast his lot with the Saints in Nauvoo; that he was willing to cross those trackless plains with that first band of pioneers in 1847, to a haven of rest for this people. I am thankful that he was willing later to cross the plains over and over again, thirteen times with ox team, to lead others here. What we are is a result of heredity, environment, and experience; and I am grateful that my background is what it is. How anyone can believe there is no God I cannot understand; how anybody can believe that this great earth exists, moves, produces life, by chance; that matter and force, with no supervising intelligence and purpose back of them, could create an earth and could create human life. Walk into a department store; its system and order fill you with admiration. You ask, "Who planned this wonderful institution?" And I say to you, "Nobody; there was no intelligence nor purpose back of it. Matter and force somehow or other produced this great institution." You would laugh at such an answer. We might enter our beautiful capitol and ask in admiration, ""Who planned this wonderful building and everything that is in it?' And if I should say "Nobody; it just came by chance?it just happened," you would be amazed. The globe that we inhabit goes swiftly through space in its own orbit, revolving on its axis. Do you think it is doing this without any direction or purpose back of it? I say and you say, 
 "No." Do you think a ship at sea will go directly and safely to port without drifting, unless there is some intelligence directing that ship? We say "No, there is a pilot on board." And so there is something directing this great earth; there is a pilot directing it, together with these great physical forces. It is our Heavenly Father, who is accessible to all of us. When we keep his commandments and obey his words, we can draw near unto and receive help from him. May the Lord help us to realize these spiritual things of life, so important that nothing else can compare with them., COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT If I could speak the thoughts that have come to my mind during this conference, they would fill a book. Surely the stone that was spoken of by Daniel?the stone cut out of the mountain without hands?is rolling forth to fill the earth, and you are helping to carry it along. This morning in the hotel lobby I met the president of a little stake writing a letter to her missionary boy down in Australia; and this afternoon you have heard reports from the land of the midnight sun, from South Africa, and the islands of the sea, all telling of this message that our Lord and Savior restored again to the earth. Unto the testimonies borne I want to add my own of missionary work. In youth, it was my pleasure to belong to a Mutual Improvement Association, and it was our custom to celebrate our president's birthday by holding a testimony meeting. On one of these occasions our stake president was blessed with the gift of tongues and the interpretation was that the time was not far distant when some of the girls present would be called to go to the nations of the earth to preach the gospel. I remember looking around the room. A little fairhaired girl was there, and I said to myself, That will not come until the day when this little girl is grown up; it seemed far off. But not long after that, six girls from that Mutual Improvement Association, including myself, were called to go to England. It was in England where our missionaries first opened foreign missions; it was a singular coincidence that when the girls were called to go and bear the message as individuals, they went to England. I desire to testify to you that the Lord blessed those missionary girls, as he will bless your efforts to carry on the work at home. You will be glorified in his name and service. As sister Lyman was speaking of her great privilege and thankfulness in having a testimony of the gospel, I thought, yes, we are greatly blessed. The hands of those in authority have been placed upon our heads after we have entered into the water of baptism and come forth, and we are entitled to that spirit. 1 am thankful to my Heavenly Father that it has always seemed as natural to me to believe the gospel of Jesus Christ as it has for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 341 me to eat or to breathe?a debt of gratitude I owe to my parents. I owe much to the opportunities the Church has afforded me, for from my early infancy I was taught to pray, to believe in a Heavenly Father, and I know he has answered my prayers. He comes to my rescue when I need him, and my only worry is that I do not acknowledge his goodness enough. Now, at the close of this conference word comes to us that you feel that we have had a most splendid session. Away back in December, Sister Williams had this idea of department work for this conference in her mind, and she said after our executive meeting, just before Sister Lyman and I left to attend the National Council of Women, ''Now, if you have a moment to spare, will you try to think of something we can have by way of department meetings during the conference?" So she was thinking about it, and we have thought about it; when we have met with her in the executive and board meetings, we have planned it; and the Lord has blessed us in following her suggestion. I thank each and every member that has taken part in this conference to help make it such a success; those who have been asked to furnish the music or to make addresses have responded loyally, and every committee has done well its part. I am thankful you have been able to be here to participate in these great meetings, and may the Lord bless you in going to your homes.