General Session (Thursday Morning)
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT
In behalf of the General Board of the Relief Society I extend greetings and welcome to you, my dear sisters of the Relief Society. I appreciate more than I can tell you the opportunity I have of working with you in this great cause. I appreciate the president of this organization. I never saw, it seems to me, a more queenly woman, or one who has a greater heart than Sister Williams; I am


thankful, as her counselor, to labor by her side. I appreciate the privilege of laboring with Sister Robison and Sister Lyman, women of intelligence and good judgment and everything that is necessary to qualify them for the positions that they hold; likewise, the members of the General Board; and not any less do I appreciate the privilege of welcoming you here today as workers in this great cause.
Many of you have come long distances to attend this conference; and what has been the incentive back of it? You all know in your own hearts that it has not been selfishness. You have come that you might be better informed and better inspired, that your vision might be enlarged to do unto others as you would have them do unto you; and even greater than that, to do for others things that you would not, in a way, do for yourselves. You sacrifice many of your personal desires and your own wishes, and hours that you might give to your family, in order to serve this great sisterhood, and the Lord blesses you for your efforts. He will bless you in your families; and you will become an influence and a power in your family that you could not obtain if you did not recognize and try to magnify the calling that has come to you through the Priesthood of our Father.
We are especially appreciative today of the work of the officers of the Salt Lake Valley stakes. We appreciate them for the beautiful display of work which they have arranged in the office, and we invite you to visit this marvelous exhibit. It must be a great and happy thought to you when you reflect that the sun does not set upon the work of the Relief Society of this Church, and that it all came from the small beginning of 18 members?now grown to over 61,000 women. That should be a testimony to you, as it is to me, that the Lord inspired this work and that he blesses our efforts.
We are happy today in having some of our mission presidents with us, and I am sure that we are going to have a feast of good things. I hope that the Lord will bless you, that your minds may be able to retain all that you desire to retain. When you return to your homes may you be like a light that is set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, and that giveth light unto all that are around you.
MRS. PEARL C. SLOAN President Northwestern States Mission Relief Society
It is with pleasure that I bring greetings from the Relief Society sisters of the Northwestern States Mission, and our love and appreciation to Sister Williams and the General Board, for the wonderful help that they have been to us in our lesson work in the mission field.
We have in our mission thirty Relief Societies reporting at the beginning of the year, against nineteen last year. We also have one newly organized Society, with requests for two
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 327
more, which will be organized shortly. We feel that the Relief Society is a real anchor to the women who are in the large cities in the mission field, that it fills the need for something to center around, and that it holds together these sisters whose lives have been cast among the people of the world. And we have wonderful support from these women; they are loyal to our organization. It requires faith and courage for mothers to take one, two, or three children and cross the city to attend Relief Society meeting; but this our sisters are happy to do.
Our women in the rural districts are just as anxious to attend meetings as those who are in the cities. At a conference I visited recently it was reported to me that one sister had traveled regularly, through all winds and weather, twenty miles, to attend Relief Society meeting. Another woman, a president, living eight miles distant was always in attendance, even if she had to walk two or three miles to catch the bus.
Work in the Relief Society means to our women what a vacation does to an employee. Employers have long since found that they could get more efficient service from employees if they gave them a vacation. We consider, in a way, the Relief Society a vacation to the busy mother. It gives her an opportunity to get out and find out what other people are doing and to partake of the advantages offered through our lessons.
More than I can tell you, we appreciate the lessons as outlined. The lessons in theology have been especially adapted for our sisters in the mission field. As arranged, they create the desire to study the Scriptures. We find, too, that through our literary lessons a desire for good literature is created and we gain a great deal from the research work. The social service lessons are also a delight to us. We are very happy with our new text book. In Portland, two months ago, upon inquiring about this book we found that eleven copies were in the libraries in that city. These were in great demand, as they were being used as texts by three or four other welfare organizations. Not long ago I found in my Parent-Teachers' Magazine that this book had been recommended to the parents of the children in the Oregon School District.
In many of our societies we have talented women who are members but are not affiliated with our Church. They are happy to enjoy the benefits of our organization, and give us real help in the social service and literary lessons.
In the mission fields our work is somewhat different from that in the stakes of Zion. Our districts are widely scattered; some it is impossible to visit more than once a year. When I tell you that to visit my farthest organization would take me twelve hours longer than it would to go to Salt Lake City, you can appreciate the situation. We are happy in our work, and we keep in touch with our organizations, even though we have to visit them by way of the typewriter.
Last summer in one rural district where there is a


little colony, the Elders reported that the sisters desired a Relief Society organization, but concluded that it would be impossible on account of the condition of the road through the winter months and the distance these sisters would have to travel, to hold that organization. They asked if it would be possible to organize a society for the summer months. The Society was organized; bad roads and great distances meant nothing to them after they had become interested in their lessons. This Society not only continued but doubled its membership, last winter.
I attended one of our branches recently when a lovely pageant featuring our work was given. After the meeting a physician walked up and said, "I am not a member of your Church, but I feel that your young men and your young women have meant much to me. They came to me when I was discouraged, when, though I needed not the things to feed the mortal body, I needed spiritual food. Their message meant much to me; and if I can do anything to help any society you have near by me, in a medical way, I shall be happy to do so." Through our missionaries this good man had become interested and had offered his services free to little children in that district who needed them.
In closing I express my appreciation to the parents of the worthy elders and women missionaries that we have in our field. Their companionship means much to us, and I desire you to know that they are doing noble work in the Northwestern States Mission.
MRS. FLORENCE R. KNIGHT Former President Western States Mission Relief Society
It is a great pleasure, I assure you, to report the Relief Societies of the Western States Mission, over which I have had the honor of presiding for nearly nine years. The mission comprises the states of Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming, Nebraska, West and South Dakota, and Council Bluffs, Iowa, covering an area of more than 350,000 miles, with a population of about six million people. From Denver it is nearly one thousand miles to one of the organizations in New Mexico; to visit them is a difficult task.
We have twenty-four societies, most of them thoroughly organized. Some have had to discontinue for a time, but every effort is being made to start them again. The members take an active part in teaching the gospel to their people, arranging for cottage meetings, distributing literature; and engaging in gospel conversations. Many baptisms result from the efforts of Relief Society workers. Where chapels have been erected, the women have played a great part in helping the branch president. Many are new converts, but they have a wonderful spirit, and are happy in helping others. I have learned to love the work of the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 329
Society, and to love these women. It was hard to part with them, because I have watched their progress and their faithfulness. To see them arise in testimony meeting and express their love for the truth and declare that ever since they have been baptized their lives have been changed, makes the worker in the mission field rejoice. We have followed the outlines and the lessons have been wonderful, under our competent class leaders, who come well prepared. In bad weather and over poor roads, our women come many miles to attend these meetings.
A few words about the missionaries. I love every one of them. I have presided over the mission home and have had five or six at a time living there. They have been very dear to me, and I congratulate their fathers and mothers in this Church. They have helped us in our Relief Society work; they even prepare the lessons, and do so most intelligently. Many of the women missionaries have stated that they did not attend the Relief Society meetings before they went on their missions but that they have learned to love the work. When they go home they expect to encourage their mothers to attend. I wish to thank the officers and the General Board, because they have helped me in my work; and I ask the Lord to bless each one of you.
MRS. LALENE H. HART Member of the General Board, and President of the Canadian Mission Relief Society
Never before in my service in public have I had greater joy and satisfaction than I have in the past year in the missionary field. My duties have been rather arduous?President of the Relief Society and mission mother in the home. My chief responsibility, as I have discerned it, has been to mother, in the best way I can, the boys and girls that you mothers and fathers have sent into the field.
I wish that I could cause you to feel the responsibility that is placed upon your boys and girls in the mission field?that big responsibility of proclaiming the gospel to the world. Never before, I think, have the missionaries needed the support of the home influence as they do now. This is owing to the temptations that come to them, the modern conditions that they have to meet, and the problems before them. For boys and girls who have not had that responsibility in their home lives, it is remarkable how they meet all situations. Mothers, encourage your boys and girls. Do not write to them regrets that they have to do certain things, which you think are trials. They need your support, your prayers. One boy came to me just before I left, saying: "Sister Hart, tell my mother I never appreciated her more in my life; but ask her to pray for me." No doubt that mother is praying in her heart always for that boy.


Last September it was my privilege to meet the missionaries of the Canadian and the Eastern States Mission at the Sacred Grove and the Hill Cumorah, to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the time that the plates were given to Joseph the Prophet. This was one of the most happy experiences that I have ever had. On that occasion, you could feel the presence of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. I think I never was more inspired than when I stood in that Sacred Grove and heard the songs and testimonies, and the prayers offered by the President of the Church and other leading brethren.
I have had the privilege myself of helping to send and keep in the mission field five boys. I know what it means to a mother to know that her boy has a testimony and that his testimony increases by the work that he does. When I heard the testimonies of these boys and girls on that occasion, and perceived the spirit they manifest, it filled my heart with gratitude.
I have not yet had the privilege of visiting Relief Society work over the whole Canadian Mission. It takes about three weeks. The Societies are small and we have only eleven. They are made up mostly of people who have come from England or other countries, and stay with us until they get a chance to get into the United States. They are strong in the faith, and they follow the plans and outlines given by the General Board.
Now, I bear my testimony, my dear sisters, in all humility, that I do know that God lives, that the boy prophet was indeed a prophet of the living God, and that the gospel has been restored in these last days for our benefit. May we ever be found faithful to the trust that he has placed in us and may we do our duty as mothers and as Relief Society workers.
MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON Member General Board
I am a little reminiscent today, and I am going to ask you sisters to take a little time with me and go back this morning in memory to Nauvoo. Last night we witnessed a very magnificent spectacle in the tabernacle, the onward progress in Relief Society work of one of the great stakes of Zion in symbolic portrayal. Prior to that pageant which was rendered we saw before us some living pictures of women leaders of our Church?great women leaders: Emma Smith, Eliza Roxey Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, and Mary Isabella Horne, sainted women who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, women who lived in Nauvoo.
I wonder if you, like me, saw other pictures as you gazed on these sainted figures, if your mind went back to that beautiful but ill-fated city of Nauvoo, if you saw riding along the streets
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 331
of that city, on a wonderful charger, a magnificent man, spiritually and physically magnificent, training other men in military tactics?the Nauvoo Legion. Did you wonder if he, himself, knew why he did that, and yet the history of our Church tells the story, when we remember the wonderful military precision of the camps of Israel, how in tens and fifties and hundreds they came out from that city, crossed the Mississippi, traversed the waving prairies, and trekked the desert sands into the wilderness, how later in military precision these same men went out and fought the savages in defense of their homes, and still later, went out, on to the frontier to protect the United States mail.
I wonder if you saw that same figure gathering his brethren together in the School of the Prophets, and teaching them the principles that we have here in this sacred record book for Church government, the revelations of God. I wonder if you saw him with a group of chosen women gathered around him, teaching them the great work that was yet before the women of Zion?the work of the Relief Society in which we women are now engaged.
And as you looked upon these pictures did you not also see other wonderful pioneer women who knew him: women who had listened to his teachings, women who had wept for Zion when he was martyred, women who had witnessed his mantle fall on Brigham Young, and with undaunted faith had made every sacrifice: Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball and Harriet Decker Young, and a host of great women who went through the hardships of pioneer life. Many of those women, all of them, I think, that I have named, with the exception of Emma Smith, have stood on this stand and borne to you or to some of us who remember them, their testimony.
What was it that made it possible for them to endure all their hardships? Many of us have not only listened to their voice but have been ministered to by their hands, blessed by their lips in our homes and in the houses of the Lord. I ask what was it made it possible for them to endure all these things that they did endure and to win such a wonderful victory? It was not wealth; it was not knowledge particularly, except the knowledge of the Lord. It was testimony?the testimony in their hearts of the truth of the gospel and the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the light that led them and made it possible to endure all things.
This is a day of speeding life, a day of radiant pleasure. We women of today have not these physical struggles that the pioneer women had. We are not meeting mob violence in this day and we are not pioneering, especially, the wilderness, but we have other battles to fight; there are other forces for us to meet. Satan is more subtle than ever before and the insidious fight that he is making among the youth of Zion is something for us to contemplate most seriously. The day of the chaperone is passe; it is not only impossible for us to go with our boys and our girls in their pleas-


ures, but it is impossible for us even to follow them in this day of automobiles and airplanes and telephones and radio. We as mothers in Israel, as workers in the Relief Society, must be strong to have them for our guide, let us be watchmen on the tower, and in our organizations and in our daily lives study more than ever before to have in our hearts the testimony that was in their hearts, borne to us that God lives and that these people were willing to say even as did the Prophet Job, "though he slay me yet will I trust in him," and that this gospel has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith for the betterment of not only the few but for all the world, and I pray that the testimony of this truth will be in the heart of every Latter-day Saint woman, to help her bear the burdens of life, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
MISS SARAH M. McCLELLAND Member of General Board
It is said that there is a certain psychological value in having a large number of people thinking and doing the same thing at the same time, and that therein lies the strength of organized effort on the part of men and women. Unity of action is essential to real success. Through union of feeling we gain power with God. I believe there is a divine balance in all things of life, and that the Eternal Father casts us in the role where the need is greatest at the time. I believe we are given ambition and ability with which to raise ourselves, if we so desire, to the higher planes. When you cannot trust God, you cannot trust anything. When you cannot trust anything, you are in the condition of the world today:
From the lofty rafters of a barn a spider once came down upon a single thread of web, and established himself upon a lower level. There he spread his web, caught flies, grew sleek, and prospered RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 333 Then he said, "What good is the thread that is stretched up into the unseen above me?" So he snapped it, and all his web collapsed. And unless we can keep the modern materialist from breaking our communion with the unseen, our spiritual history may meet the same fate. Emerson says "Mormonism" is the only religion of power and vitality that has made its appearance for the last twelve hundred years. In a conference in the tabernacle, in 1920, William Jennings Bryan said, "I have never before witnessed such divine fervor." Our strength does not lie in numbers, but in the power of the spirit. The Bible and other ancient records have given us testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ, but our Heavenly Father has given unto us another testimony. In the 76th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, on February 16, 1832, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon had a vision, and gave to all the world this testimony: "After the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of him, that he lives, for we saw him even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the only begotten of the Father." President Joseph F. Smith said he believed many of our young people have a testimony of the gospel, but do not know it; they are looking for some wonderful manifestation. He gave this key: When you are listening to some great truth that is being delivered, and you have a feeling in your soul that it is true, and there is a burning in your heart, that is the testimony to your soul that it is true. Says Emerson, "Do the thing and you shall have the power; but they who do not the thing, have not the power." It would be an ideal condition if we had trained workers for all positions; but the training usually comes after the call. It isn't how much you know, however, but how much you can do with what you know. It isn't how many languages you can speak, but what you can say in one language. As a rule the opportunity comes to all to use their gifts. Eliza R. Snow said, "It is only through the cultivation of the pure and good side of our nature that the Spirit of God can dwell within us." To be a member of the Relief Society is an opportunity, a duty, a responsibility. Any man who in his life work does nothing whatever for his fellowman, has labored in vain. According to the Prophet Joseph, one man empowered from Jehovah has more influence with the children of the kingdom than millions led by the precepts of men. Brigham Young in a discourse, remarked that whether we are rich or poor, if we neglect our prayers and sacrament meetings, we neglect the Spirit of the Lord, and a spirit of darkness comes over us. When the people do all they can, the Lord is bound to do the rest. Man can produce and control his own acts, but he has no control over their results. We are told there is no chastisement can come upon us that is not 
 for our good; it develops some virtue in our character. Eternal life means eternal growth. Daniel Webster has beautifully said, "If you work upon marble, it will perish; if you work upon brass, time will efface it; if we rear temples, they will crumble into dust; but if we work upon immortal souls, we engrave on those tables something which brightens all eternity." The Relief Society has grown from a small Seeing Its members have devoted much time to the temporal affairs, which have helped to improve spiritual conditions. All the good we do is indeed spiritual; for before the Father all is spiritual. A strong spiritual vein underlies the outward covering. We are helping to fulfil the law when we love our neighbor. I would just like to add my father's testimony that he received in Nauvoo. Sister Cannon's remarks reminded me of this. He had given up home and country, everything he loved, because he heard that the "angel had flown through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth." He said, "I want to see that man; I want to shake his hand;" so he and my mother came to America. In Nauvoo they met the Prophet Joseph Smith, and my father said when he shook his hand these words went through his mind: 'Whither thou goest I will go; thy people shall be my people; thy God shall be my God."