ROBBED BY WOLVES 357
trail and camping places, were excessively contaminated by these dead beasts which were now putrefying in the boiling sun. My grandmother, Susan, who later became the wife of President Jedediah Morgan Grant, was then a black-eyed, plump and jolly Miss of fifteen summers. As her adopted father, Bates Nobles, was a body guard to the Prophet Joseph, Susan had sat upon the Prophet's knee many times and had listened with burning interest to wonderful statements regarding Zion and its future. More than once she had carried secret messages from the Prophet after he had written them and pinned them in her clothes, saying, "Susan, carry this to Hyrum. Guard it with your life." Well, as she was here in this company, I shall give you the first-hand story as she has many times told it to us children. (Note: Grandmother died when I was about thirty years of age, so my information is not childish memory.) We shall not go back to Nauvoo or Winter Quarters even, but start right here in the first week of September. "Oh," she would exclaim, "that smell was terrible, especially when it was seasoned with the nasty water. It was enough to kill us all?man and beast. Even to this day, at the scent of carrion, I am carried backward to those days on the plains. We didn't blame the travelers ahead of us so very much, for we could do but little better for those who were to follow us, but we did, however, drag off all dead critters from the camping places." "My, how we boys and girls worked day after day to keep our cows and sheep from taking too large a dose at one time of this brackish water. The weather was so hot, though, and the animals increased in their thirst by the salty country, that in spite of our poundings and pleadings, they would gorge themselves upon the morbific, soap-bubbley stuff and then almost immediately begin being sick. An epidemic of cholera had broken out, spreading first among the animals and then attacking the people, especially the children. As the days passed and the conditions grew no better, the malady increased in severity. I remember one afternoon when our best milch cow stretched out and died. This was the first of our animals to go. All through camp, oxen, horses, sheep, pigs, and even the chickens were affected alike. As the human sick list grew, greater loads were added to the weary cattle. Oh, it was just terrible! The vomiting and purging and knife-like cramps that sapped the vitality in just a few hours, bringing some of the strongest to the wagons and keeping them there for days and finally leaving them pale and weak. "But hope was before us; Sweet Water, they declared, was just a day or so ahead. This was a clear, sparkling river running eastward from the Rockies. As our wagon was close to Captain Grant's, I remember how worried he was and how he prayed


at our evening meetings that the animals and people would be spared to reach our new home in the mountains. But I guess, he didn't pray much harder'n some of the women folks, for they had charge of a number of the outfits, hitching and unhitching the oxen and waiting on the sick as well. You see, their husbands and oldest sons, having left the year before with the Mormon Battalion, were now fighting to help bring into the Union the land toward which we were headed. Brigham Young was so sure that all the country westward would belong to the United States, that he kept your grandfather from joining the first company by sending him east on important business; instructed him to buy material for a huge Stars and Stripes flag that should wave over our new homes toward the Pacific. This cloth was later made into the Mammoth Flag that waved for years over Salt Lake City. "Just next to us, in the daily line of march, was Eliza R. Snow, Levi Edgar Riter and his wife Elizabeth. I speak of Sister Riter because, about the first of June, just as we were preparing to leave Winter Quarters, her baby Elizabeth was born. Most of us thought she would stay and come the next year, but she told her husband, 'No, sir. Fit up the tires and make ready. I can travel the day they start.' This baby, you may know, became the mother of Levi Edgar Young. "As I was saying, we were close to Captain Grant. His wife Caroline, was exceptionally kind to me, inviting me often to fix our supper with her. Then in the evening, as I helped tend Sister Grant's two little girls, Caroline, two years, and Margaret, six months, I was regularly charmed with Brother Grant's talks, many of which were from his experiences with the Prophet Joseph. At times, as he spoke, he seemed to be so filled with the inspiration of heaven, that all present thrilled with emotions of testimony. We young people often had the chance to express our own feelings in these little meetings about the prairie camp fires. Oh, children, you do not know how happy we were, even during these severe days of hardest trials! As young as I was, I knew the Gospel had been restored. More than once I had heard Joseph declare that our Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus, the resurrected Savior, had come and talked with him. To this day this testimony has never left me. And when I am gone, I want you to tell this to your children and grandchildren. "Let me stop here," begged grandmother, "for the next part of the story is so sad." But at our request she continued: "In spite of our faith and prayers, while we were still in the saleratus country, several children died. Think of holding a little short service, moving forward and leaving the fresh mound in the dim distance. Mothers' hearts were almost broken at such trials. "Sorrow now visited our Captain's wagon. As Sister Grant had not been very well for several days, little Margaret got the
ROBBED BY WOLVES 359
cholera and by sundown she was seized with violent spasms. I was so worried, I stayed close by their wagon while I took care of "Caddie," as we all called the oldest girl. As night came on, Margaret grew worse. About mid-night I was sent to my bed, but later as I looked out, I could still see the parents, accompanied by Sisters Snow and Riter and Brother and Sister Noble, working with the child by the fire on the sheltered side of their wagon. "The hot weather had brought on a thunder storm, the first for days. A terrible wind was springing up from the west, driving the lose clay-dust before it. In just a few minutes the downpour was upon us. The fires sizzled briefly and were forced out; everyone hurried for shelter. The gale, resembling a hurricane, roared through the country with terrific speed, bringing sheet-like columns of rain in alarming force against the wagon. Several tents were toppled over and almost blown away, while the drenched occupants in their night clothing raced to safer abodes. The storm seemed to be coming from the mountains. After a little it slackened, yet it kept up most of the night. Worried but weary, I finally went off to sleep. The next morning when I awoke, the sun was shining brightly on my wagon cover. Margaret flashed immediately into my mind. I quickly sat up. No one else had been to bed in our wagon. I was ashamed that I had gone to sleep. Outside I could hear low voices, and I learned that we were to move on to the Sweet Water before making breakfast. Just then, from the wagon next to ours, I heard little Caddie calling, half lonesome-like, for her mother. I was only half dressed but I was soon ready, and scrambling out, stood for a moment looking about from the wagon tongue. One quick glance and I read part of the sorrow the night had left behind. Over on the side of a rolling clay hill about a stone's throw away, and half surrounded by people, principally women, was a new little mound. Nearer me, the men were busy in the slippery clay, hitching up the cattle for moving. Climbing quickly into Sister Grant's wagon, I threw myself by the side of Caddie, sobbing as only a heart-broken girl can. After a little, I heard the folks returning. Then, as I waited, I thought of that cold burial, and I knew there had been no material for a box of any sort?oh, it was terrible! "Brother Grant's animals were now hitched to his wagon. I then heard Brother Riter suggest quietly, 'Brother Grant, Sister Riter will ride with Caroline and Caddie this morning. Caroline is not well and must be relieved from all care and further worry.' As I softly climbed from the wagon, Brother and Sister Grant saw me. Sister Grant exclaimed, 'Oh, Susan!' and throwing her arms around me, she gave expression to her feelings, weeping as if her heart would break. "That morning as we moved forward, the trail proved heavy


and slippery. Every swale and gully was chokeful of mud and debris, forced there by the storm of the night before. The air this morning, though, was cool and invigorating. Such a wonderful change naturally revived our spirits. By noon we were on the Sweet Water. The Bad Lands, like a departing night-mare, lay grim in the distance. A much needed rest, with plenty of good feed for the animals and a river of clear, fresh water for all, revived the sick and again set us thinking of the mountains. "Just as darkness flees before the morning's dawning, so our griefs were turned, all of a sudden, to the greatest, unexpected joys experienced on the whole trip. It seems that this sort is the kind that takes one most by storm and causes one to lose himself in their gripping hold. About noon (Sept. 8), like messengers from another world, there came riding into camp from the West a number of the quorum of the Twelve with Brigham Young at the head. Following them, were their well equipped outfits. They had found us a home by the inland sea they declared, and were now on their way back to Winter Quarters to lead out in the general movement in the early spring wherein thousands of people would make their way westward. You should have seen the meeting of your grandfather and Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball; why, they just hugged each other like youngsters; Heber and Jedediah were not counselors to Brigham then, but they were later. You see, Brigham was not sustained as president until after they arrived back at Winter Quarters. "For two days the brethren stayed with us, holding meetings and giving instructions. We all made the most of their visits, knowing that almost a year would pass before we should see them again. Then one morning we had some Indian trouble. While we were off guard, a dashing band of mounted Indians rushed down upon our horses, uttering long shrill cries, getting 40 or so of our animals, and hurried them off toward the Platte. More than 200 of our horsemen followed, including most of our visiting brethren, for about 20 of their horses were in the stolen band. Only five animals were recovered. As President Young's company had a number of extra horses, they had enough to make up their needs and to help us also. Time for separation now arrived. With all outfits hitched and ready for travel, some east, others west, we bade each other a hearty farewell, and were on our way. "The trail from here to South Pass, a hundred miles or more, was all up grade, but after this splendid rest we moved forward rapidly. Sister Grant was so improved that she walked a little each day. Most of the other sick were rapidly gaining in
*Those seeking details should read Life of Wilford Woodruff, by Cowley, 1909?Deseret Book Store, Public Library. See especially pp. 321-323.
ROBBED BY WOLVES 361
strength. We had heard so much of South Pass that we thought, of course, a dangerous and difficult climb was before us. One can hardly imagine our surprised feeling when we found the continental divide a long, broad, easy upland valley with splendid trails. It was hardly believable until we saw the waters of the Sandy running westward toward Green River. "As our hopes were now flying high, many a teamster shouted, including the women. All felt they had a right to be happy, looking forward and not backward. As our wagons rolled easily along, all joined in singing many a trail song. I'll sing you two or three, but of course I can't make them thrill you as they did us in those days:
"Cheer up, brothers, as we go over the mountains westward ho, Where herds of deer and buffalo furnish the fare."

"We'll stay on the farm and we'll suffer no loss, For the stone that keeps rolling will gather no moss."
"Oh, wife, let us go; oh, don't let us wait, I long to be there and I long to be great; While you, some fair lady; and who knows but I May be some rich Governor long 'fore I die."
"Our soaring spirits were soon to return, however, and hug the ground in silence; for joys seem to ebb and flow with sorrows ever present. In just a few days, mountain fever had confined a great number to their wagons. It was with difficulty that the sick could ride forward at all, for the roads became but trails, rough and difficult. Brigham Young had warned us that at the first sign of the mountain sickness, we were to use plenty of composition, cayenne, and vegetable pills. These were to assist in breaking the fever. Brother Young told us of his sickness, of the distressing pain that throbbed in his head, and at the same time the trouble that settled in his back and various joints of his body. When the fever ceased, cold chills were followed by hot flushes that tended to make him almost mad with pain. Brigham Young declared that he was delirious for most of two days; and that this was the reason why he had to follow into the valley two days behind the foremost of the trail-breakers. "Sister Grant, full of faith and hopeful determination, fought off the first signs of the fever, but as she was weakened from the effects of cholera and deep sorrow, back it came with alarming consequences. It was with difficulty now that we could travel at all. Friday night it was decided that part of the camp was to lay over Saturday as well as Sunday, that the others should move forward and during Saturday, as they progressed, help make the


roads better. By Monday we were sure all would again be on their way. "As Sister Grant's condition became rather critical Saturday, she and her bed were gently transferred to a tent that was set up near by. Sunday brought a higher fever and complete delirium. For the first Sunday on our long journey, there was no singing, preaching, or music heard in camp. These were replaced by fasting and prayer for Caroline's recovery. As your grandfather was a very sympathetic man, this grief, added to the worry and sorrows of the past, was almost more than he could bear. Sisters Riter and Snow and the menfolks always stayed close at hand, rendering assistance whenever possible. Brother Grant often took Caddie from me, hugging and kissing her while the tears ran down his face. "During the evening of Sunday, as I sat near the fire at the tent door with little Caddie on my lap, I watched carefully the language expressed in the eyes of the attendants. Later on when the child went to sleep, I was quietly taking her toward my wagon to tuck her away from the cool mountain air, when Sister Snow caught up to me, and as she handed me a shawl, she exclaimed a little anxiously, 'No, don't take her away.' Not until then did it really dawn upon me that there seemed to be no hope. Wrapping the shawl about me and the sleeping child, I sat waiting in silence. About mid-night Sister Grant rallied a little and whispered, 'Susan?Caddie.' I sprang up so quickly when I was called that I waked the little girl, who opened her big eyes and stared about on every side. In a moment we were both by the bed, while Caddie kissed her mama and tried to huddle into the covers. Sister Grant looked at us knowingly, then as she contentedly closed her eyes again and seemed to be sinking, I heard her whisper to Jedediah, 'All is well! All is well! Please take me to the valley?Jeddy. Get Margaret?bring her?to me!' Brother Grant answered tenderly and meaningly as he sobbed with sorrow, 'Yes, yes, Caroline. I'll do my best. I'll do my best.' "During the night the sisters prepared the body in the very best manner possible and the Brethren made a box from one of the top beds of the wagon; and with the first dawn of daylight we were hurrying toward the Valley, which was reached three days later on the evening of the 29th. Here the whole group was thrown into intense sorrow, as Caroline had been with the Church almost from the beginning. The services were held that evening, and early the next morning, the first white woman to be buried in the Valley was quietly laid at rest.* "After two or three days resting, Jedediah and Bates Noble
*Caroline Ann Vandyke was born January 16, 1818, was married to Jedediah M. Grant July 2, 1844. She was 29 years old when she died. At this time Jedediah was but 31.
ROBBED BY WOLVES 363
made ready to fulfill the remainder of Caroline's last request. Back they would go through long dangerous canyons, over hills and mountains?back to the Sweet Water?past Independence Rock and out to that lonely little clay mound. The child should be brought to its mother?'Yes, yes, Caroline. I'll do my best.' "Little did they realize as they anxiously began that long journey, how sad would be the ending. 'At Bear River,' as Uncle Bates has often told it, 'again we camped. As we sat there alone at night by our little camp fire in the very heart of the Rockies, after meditating in silence for some time, Brother Jedediah turned and requested, 'Brother Bates, let's have a hymn or so.' After a number had been sung, Jedediah said, 'Now sing 'God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform'.' As we finished:
"Blind unbelief is sure to err, And scan his works in vain; God is his own interpreter, And he will make it plain."
Brother Grant sat with bowed head for some time, then he looked up and, glowing with his former inspiration, which I had not seen upon him for some time, declared in a firm voice which always characterized his unwavering testimony, "Bates, God has made it plain. The joy of Paradise where my wife and baby are together, seems to be upon me tonight. For some wise purpose they have been released from the earth struggles into which you and I are plunged. They are many, many times happier than we can possibly be here. This camping ground should be the saddest of all sad places to me, but this night it seems to be close under heaven." As Jedediah spoke, there vibrated into my bosom a feeling that comes only under the inspiration of heaven. Then we knelt in prayer; Brother Grant being mouth. It seemed to me that no human soul could have listened to his words and doubted that he talked to his Father in heaven; doubted that the Gospel of Jesus Christ had been restored and that Joseph Smith was divinely chosen; doubted that Caroline and Margaret were with their Heavenly Father in celestial glory. This incident alone was enough to have converted me had I been the least bit of a "doubting Thomas." "Early the next morning we were again on our journey. Generally we chatted, at other times we rode silently forward; in these moments I often wondered if we should find the little mound as we had left it. It was not the Indians that I feared so much as the prairie wolf. Once or twice during those long days, Jedediah dropped a word or two that also showed his anxiety. Our apprehensions were multiplied at our camp the first night on the Sweet Water. Here two graves left by Oregon companies had been ruthlessly pilfered.


"Another day or so and we were at the end of our eastward journey. As we intended making it back to Sweet Water for the night, we stopped our rig in the trail of the saleratus camping grounds where just a month previous a terrible night had been spent in a driving thunder storm. We now stepped forward, carrying the box and shovels. A few paces from the little grave we stopped hesitatingly, set down our things and stood with eyes fixed before us. Neither tried to speak. An ugly hole replaced the small mound; and so recently had the wolves departed that every sign was fresh before us. I dared not raise my eyes to look at Jedediah. From the way I felt, I could but guess his feelings. Like statues of the wilderness we stood. Grown to the spot, each fully realizing that nothing more could be done. After several minutes of silent tears, we quietly withdrew, carrying away again only that which we had brought. Then, as we silently rode westward toward the mountains, there seemed to echo in my soul from a distant tent in the mountains, 'All is well, All is well! Take me to the valley, Jeddy. Get Margaret?bring her to me.' Then the earnest sad reply, 'Yes, yes, Caroline. I'll do my best. I'll do my best!'"