HANNAH CHRISTENSEN AND HER HUSBAND Hannah Christensen In drawing a mental picture of the subject of this sketch we must see a little woman, barely five feet in height, quick, energetic and determined, but with a keen sense of humor and a cheery smile upon her face. Maren Johanna Rasmussen Christensen (familiarly known as Hannah (Christensen) was born on the island of Lolland, Denmark, Oct. 28, 1838, the daughter of Rasmus Christensen and Maria Jorgensen. From childhood she exhibited that independence of spirit which characterized her later life. When barely in her teens, at her home one day, a pig had been slaughtered, after which the family went into the house to eat breakfast. While the men ate, Hannah went out to take a look at the animal and seeing that it still showed signs of life, took up a butcher knife and finished the job to put an end to the creature's suffering. Having become a convert to the Gospel, she was called upon to choose between love and duty; for a worthy young man, whose wife she expected soon to become, could not see as she did in religious matters and their courtship ended. In 1864 she was baptized by Elder Ole H. Berg, and emigrated to Utah in 1866. In crossing the plains by ox train, much sickness was experienced by the emigrants and many died. Twenty-two women were 
 attacked with cholera at one time and of these only two survived, Hannah being one of them. It was while crossing the plains that her romance commenced, for in Captain Abner Lowry's company, which traveled with them part of the way, was a young man named Martin Christensen, and the two young people became acquainted. Hannah was still weak and Martin kindly held an umbrella over her as she lay sick, to protect her from the burning rays of the sun. Upon their arrival in Salt Lake City they again met and together proceeded to Mount Pleasant, Sanpete County, Utah, with other members of their companies. Here they were married by Bishop Seely and located at Fountain Green, becoming pioneers of that place. By hard work and frugality they were able to surround themselves with many comforts in spite of the ravages of grasshoppers and trouble with Indians. They built a two-room adobe house and secured a considerable amount of land. Brother Christensen bought a team and did freighting between Salt Lake City and their home, while his wife assisted the men in shearing sheep in the co-op herd, gleaned grain in the fields to make flour and for chicken feed, and in every way possible endeavored to help make a livelihood for the family. Five children were born to these good people, but home duties and hard work did not prevent them from attending strictly to their duties in the ward; for, as they said, it was to live their religion that they had come. And just when prosperity began to smile upon them in 1880, Brother Martin Christensen was called by President John Taylor to take his family to San Luis Valley and help make a settlement for the Saints there. Did they respond? With courage, born of faith, they sold their property, bought teams, and bidding farewell to friends and to the little grave where reposed one of their precious babies, set out with the remaining four children on a trip fraught with terrible hardship. They were to make a new home in the wilderness and to become pioneers of Manassa, Colorado. The first winter was terribly severe, and the rough cabin they had been able to erect was but a poor protection to the family and to the milch cows to which it also gave. Shelter. When spring opened up, in spite of terrific gales, the little family planted their crops, which were later almost entirely destroyed by summer frosts. But they faced the situation without fear and with no doubt as to ultimate success, by the blessing of the Lord who had directed their footsteps there. The D. & R. G. R. R. Was building its lines at that time, and construction camps were strung out from ten to twenty miles apart. This opened a business opportunity to Sister Christensen, who, fitting up an old wagon for the purpose, visited these camps regularly, selling butter, eggs, dressed chicken, vegetables, etc. Her visits were looked forward to and her advent could be HANNAH CHRISTENSEN 381 relied upon with certainty. Every other Tuesday she went from Manassa to Alamosa, returning the following day; and every Saturday she went to Antonito, thus establishing a trade which she followed for about twenty years; during this time she saved about $10,000. It was amusingly said of her that if she started out alone on the desert in the morning she would return at night with a pocket full of money. Still she found time to attend to her duties in the Church, and for fifteen years acted as president of the Relief Society at Manassa, and for some years as president of Primary in that place, while her husband was counselor in the Bishopric of the ward and superintendent of Sunday School. While residing in Manassa, her home was within a block of the Stake House, and many of the general authorities who visited Stake conferences were entertained at her home. Often the yard was filled with teams, and generous entertainment was provided for all who came. In 1900, Brother Christensen being in poor health, he and his wife came to Murray, Utah, to live near their daughter; here, in 1908, Brother Christensen died. In Murray, Sister Christensen again took hold of work in Relief Society and was one of the most efficient Relief Society teachers in that ward. In 1917, when she was 79 years of age, she was struck by an automobile and so severely injured that her life was despaired of and a broken bone in her limb was never set. Through the administration of the Elders and her great faith, she finally recovered and for two years afterward, in spite of her lameness, walked one and a half miles daily from her home to work in a store. Sister Christensen's absolute faith in the administration of the Elders in time of sickness was one of the outstanding principles of her life. She never summoned medical aid except a midwife, although the extreme activity of her mind often wore out her frail body. On several occasions, when it seemed to those around her that her spirit had left her body, she revived and testified that she had been restored to life by the power of the Priesthood. Sister Christensen lived to the age of 85 years and died at Murray, July 30, 1923, where her body reposes by the side of her husband's. She is survived by three sons and one daughter. Optimistic and cheerful, to know Sister Hannah was to love her and her associates in San Luis often remarked that she must have been sent there to cheer and comfort them. Of the labors of such pioneer women we of today are enjoying the rich fruition. Let us honor their memory and emulate their noble example. Pioneers and Parents By Sarah B. Moody If you love the romance, the bravery, the rugged beauty of life, the power and resourcefulness of our Mormon pioneers, you will enjoy this true story of Mr. And Mrs. Dan Kemp. Dan was born in England in 1859, but emigrated to Utah with his parents when a small! Boy. Some years later the family was called to St. George. About this time the new temple was the all-absorbing topic, and Dan, then a lad of fourteen, proudly volunteered his services, and was on hand with the first workmen. He labored on for years; mastered the trade of mason, attained his manhood, and finally saw the completion of the temple. Pride and pleasure in the part he had taken in the erection of this beautiful edifice, gladdened all his after years. Amanda Brimhall was born in Hyrum, Cache County, Utah, in 1864. Her parents pioneered in Southern Idaho, and later went to Arizona. When they made the trip south, Amanda was fourteen years old, and the following incident of the journey impressed her vividly. Ten immigrant wagons belonging to five families, and followed by a small herd of cattle and horses, toiled patiently uphill, and down, through deep gulches, over and around boulders huge as a table, through tall, slapping brush and over cactus beds. Early winter overtook them and for days they traveled through the snow. When they reached the crossing of the big Colorado River, they found the water frozen over. Mr. Johnson, who tended the ferry, had never seen it, frozen before, and insisted they would have to camp there for a week before it would thaw sufficiently to ferry across. A week of camping in the snow with no food for their stock and little for themselves seemed too much. They talked it over, and told Mr. Johnson they would pray for the ice to thicken, then would cross in the morning and go on their way. "The Big Colorado don't freeze, and has never been crossed that way," insisted Mr. Johnson. With the breaking of dawn the pioneers were out testing the ice inch by inch with poles. "Unload the wagons. Cut timber and make sleds, everybody move. The Lord is on our side," shouted the leaders. Before the sun had much more than bid them a genial good morning, the commands were executed and the contents of the wagons were being sledded across the ice. This was great fun PIONEERS AND PARENTS 383 for the children, who raced busily back and forth hauling the sleds. Now came the time to get the cattle and horses across. They instinctively scented danger and could neither be led nor driven onto the ice. "I have it!" shouted a sturdy pioneer as he rushed forward with a bucket of sand and began strewing it over and back, making a sandy trail across. The old mare, the recognized leader of the band, was coaxed onto the trail. The other horses, then the cows followed one by one, until all were safely across. "Now for the wagons with-all speed," shouted the leader as he felt the increasing warmth of the sun. Again he tested the ice with a pole. "We'll make it boys, drive on." The white-hooded wagons moved slowly but surely across the ice. One by one they landed, and as the last team stepped onto the firm ground a tremendous cracking sound was heard and the hind wheels of the wagon went down, but the faithful old team pulled it safely ashore, and then the pioneers went on their way singing praises to the Lord, who had truly been with them. This was the first and last time the Colorado was ever crossed on ice at that place. This little company settled at Taylor, Arizona, on the Little Colorado. Other pioneers had preceded them, but it was still a great, lonely, silent wilderness in the land of the Apache and Navajo Indians. Great deserts hemmed them in and seemed to be forever reaching out their hungry arms to get them; the silence of the night was broken only by the hoot of an owl, the call of a coyote, and occasionally by the far-away chant of an Indian war dance. But the days were busy and happy. Logs had to be cut and homes built, brush grubbed, land broken and planted, and water ditches dug. There were no idlers here. Every woman and every child had a share to do, and had no time to think of loneliness and danger. Amanda Brimhall grew to womanhood here in Taylor, where she met and fell in love with Dan Kemp. Both of them knew that a kind hand was guiding them, and that no place could be desolate or no band of exiles be lonely, so long as they had faith and friendship, song and love, in their hearts. And soon came a double wedding with all its romance; for Lavina, a younger sister, was to marry Andrew Woods the same day. This was to be a big event; for they had a real wedding cake. With layer piled high upon layer, and all covered over with snowy ornaments. A professional baker, Mr. Wood's father, had made 
 DAN KEMP AND HIS SONS it. The girls' wedding dresses were made of real cashmere. The whole town was bidden to the wedding; the neighbor ladies were busy assisting with the cooking, taking the bed out of the best room, improvising long tables, borrowing dishes, and making themselves generally useful. _ When all was in readiness, President Jesse N. Smith solemnized the marriages making the ceremony sacred and impressive. A real wedding supper and a dancing party followed. When it was all over and the newly-wedded couples sought rest, Mr. And Mrs. Woods' bedroom was a covered wagon in the yard, for Mr. Brimhall's house contained only three log rooms. Two years later, with one little daughter, Mr. And Mrs. Kemp again took to the trail and moved several hundred miles south to where a few Saints were settled on the Gila River. Half a dozen settlers, each in his little clearing in the high mesquite brush, and living long distances apart, composed all of Thatcher when the Kemps arrived. They made their little clearing and set to work at once to build a home. Dan made adobes enough for two walls, then made the other two with willows: A canvas was stretched over the top for a roof, and another canvas was tacked over the dirt floor, but they were proud enough to move into this one room. There was little variety of food. A kettle of frijoles was constantly on the stove, and often for days at a time they had little else to eat. Again they went through the silent night and busy days. Separation from their home folks seemed to entrance the desolation, but hand in hand they faced the future unafraid, because they knew that God is good. PIONEERS AND PARENTS 
 KEMP AND HER SONS Once, as the hush of evening was settling over the little town, it was rudely disturbed by the war-whoop of Indians. A great band of them with war paint and feathers rode wildly through the settlement. All the women and children were hurried into the only substantial adobe house, and all through the night the men stood guard with their guns. Weird chants of the Indian war dance reached them. There was no sleep for anyone that night. The women huddled together in fear, breathing a constant prayer for protection. With the coming of dawn they were left in peace, with gratitude for God's protecting care. For many years the Apache Indians continued to be a menace. They frequently rode through the settlement, stole cattle and horses, ambushed travelers, and sometimes took life. At one time the Wright brothers of Thatcher were following Indians to get back some of their stolen stock and were ambushed and killed. When the awful news sped over the struggling settlement, the people all feared and sorrowed as one big family. The Kemp's second daughter was born in their first little home. Kindly neighbors cared for mother and baby. While left alone for a brief time, Mrs. Kemp lay on her bed and watched a huge snake craw! Up the willow side of the house. She was used to such visitors, however, and since it was only a water snake she knew it could do no harm. Busy as this little band of struggling pioneers were, one of the first things they did was to get willows from the river for a place of worship. On Sunday, work was laid aside and men, women and children went in their "Sunday best" to the little bowery. Dan Kemp led the singing, and all sang and worshipped together. 
 Years hastened by, and other companies of pioneers came to join them. During these busy, building days, no one's services were more in demand that were Mr. Kemp's, for he must lay the adobes for all the new houses. "We must build more beautiful and substantial houses to replace our pioneer shacks," Mr. Kemp early advised. And with this in view, he, with Wm. C. Moody, made the first bricks and built the first brick houses in Thatcher; and in course of time, many brick structures followed. During twenty-six years spent in Thatcher, the Kemps saw it develop into a thrifty farming town with about twelve hundred inhabitants. There were good stores, a fine bank building, a commodious depot, and many substantial business buildings. A beautiful church house, also an artistic and commodious church school building, were outstanding. During all these years children came regularly to the Kemp home until there were sixteen. Mr. And Mrs. Kemp welcomed them all; their fidelity to religion taught them the sacredness of human life; and they willingly, gladly gave their best years to their children. Mr. Kemp met with a heavy financial loss, and those of the family still at home (several had married in Arizona) decided to try their fortunes in San Diego, California. They reached there with eleven children, little money, and no knowledge of city life. Mr. Kemp tells of his first efforts to rent a house in San Diego. They approached a house with a "For Rent" sign in the window.. "Have you any children?" the landlady asked. "Yes, we have sixteen," Mr. Kemp answered with pride. This happened again and again until Mrs. Kemp remonstrated: "Dan, why do you persist in telling them sixteen children? You are virtually shouting it from the house tops, and are hurting our chances to get a home." "When it comes to my children, I don't compromise with anyone. People may as well know first as last," he answered. In spite of children and honesty, they finally rented a comfortable house. Mr. Kemp found work at his trade, and his children all helped. Their industry and honesty soon won friends. One of these was the corner grocer, who watched their struggles and guessed the truth. "Mr. Kemp, don't go without things you need," he said. "Come to my store and get anything you want. I have watched you and your family, and know I shall never lose a cent." The Kemps affiliated themselves at once with the little, struggling branch of the Church. In a short time Mr. Kemp was made president of the branch and Mrs. Kemp president of the Relief Society.