Sagebrush
By A. C. Sorensen
There's a place out West where sagebrush grows, A valley wide where the wild wind blows, And my thoughts are ever there.
The gray sage calls and I want to go Back where it grows, for I love it so, Where its strong scent fills the air.
Today, out there I would like to be, Where free winds play o'er the wide, gray sea Of the sagebrush there on the plain.
There are times it seems I can smell it here? When the sun goes down and the stars appear? As it smells just after a rain.
The city breezes are scented with rose And tropical flowers; but I'd give all those For one sage breath, wild and free.
The pinyon pines and the junipers grow, And sego lilies on the hill-sides blow, In that valley where I would be.
Tonight, 'neath the stars I have made my bed. I rest on the earth, all my longings have fled? I'm back; no more will I roam.
There is peace where I lie, for sage scents the air, It caresses and soothes me, dispelling all care. The sagebrush has called me home.
Robbed by Wolves
A True Story
(An incident in the life of President Heber J. Grant's father, Jedediah M. Grant.)
By Carter E. Grant
"Oh sing me a song of the mountain peaks, Or sing of the canyons deep; Yes, sing me a song, ye west winds, sing As I lie 'neath the stars to sleep."
Note: Those wishing to know more about the thousands of homeseekers that passed ahead of the Mormons over the Oregon Trail and Northwest from Fort Bridger should read, Trans Mississippi West, by Goodwin, pp. 310-321. Also, Economic Beginnings of the Far West, by Corman, p. 163?Public Library or U. Of U.
The late August sun had browned to a frazzle the prairies of western Nebraska. The huge caravans moved on over the "Dead Lands" of eastern Wyoming slumbering in summer silence. The arid country had now become a white and yellow clay-belt. The early bunch-grass which had served well the Utah and Oregon caravans had now withered into stump-like sticks. A hundred twenty-five miles westward from Fort Laramie, where the Platte swings off due south, the Oregon trail takes a south-westerly line across alkali flats toward Independence Rock on the Sweet Water River, some 838 miles from Independence, Missouri, and some hundred miles from South Pass. On this "No Man's Land" of rumpled wastes and deceiving distances, among the alkaline swales and bluffs and ravines, our story opens, with Captain Jedediah M. Grant's huge company in the very heart of their one-thousand-mile trek toward the unknown place to which Brigham Young had headed his earlier company. June, July and August could each tell a grim story of the long days of summer travel. For the first time the Rockies began rising out of the distance. Toward them, they were bound. Into their very midst they would go, seeking an abode 'neath towering peaks where their inspired prophet should declare, "This is the place!" This second exodus was a modern Israel! A string of wagons number 580, drawn by 2,213 oxen and 124 horses. Herded along with all, were 887 cows, 358 sheep; fastened to the wagons were coops containing 716 chickens and 35 hogs. Somewhat mixed in
*Lariat, June, 1925?George F. Herrick, Salt Lake writer.


with this grand melody of prattling hens and crowing roosters, bleating sheep and lowing oxen, neighing steeds and bawling cows, bellowing calves and squealing pigs, were 1,553 human souls; men, women and children, all doing their level best to enjoy the scorching scenery and the scanty rations, doled out morning, noon, and night. Although there were many divisions, captains and supervisors, still upon the head leaders rested problems of constant worry and generalship. As most of the pilgrims, tanned and tired, trudged tediously in step with the toiling teams, too tired and jaded to travel far or fast?the caravan at its best proved a slow one. And now that the host was in the midst of alkaline and brackish watering places, repugnant and offensive, almost poisonous to man and beast, this slowness of itself, rapidly developed dangers not to be trifled with. More than 5000 Oregon Immigrants, with their flocks and herds, had already passed this way; and as spruce and pine during the winter season but emphasize the nakedness of the other trees, so the signs of early grass and fire-wood spoke, advisedly, confirming Brigham Young's declaration, "Follow us as soon as possible; late companies are bound to suffer." Not alone were grass and fire-wood gone, but on every hand lay the remains of poorly equipped Oregon companies which had been passing over the trail for the past four years. I now quote from Parkman, who spent considerable time on the Oregon Trail in the late "40's." In these years, when this host of emigrants went over the trail, it became littered with bedding, stoves, furniture, trunks?all thrown away by travelers to lighten their load. One may yet sometimes see the scattered wreckage of ancient claw-footed tables, well waxed and rubbed; or massive bureaus of carved wood. These, some of them, no doubt, the relics of ancestral prosperity in colonial days, must have encountered strange vicissitudes. Brought, perhaps, originally from England; then, with the declining fortunes of their owners, borne across the Alleghanies to the wilderness of Ohio and Kentucky: then to Illinois or Missouri; and now at last fondly stowed away for the interminable journey to Oregon. But the stern privations of the way are little anticipated. The cherished relic is thrown out to scorch and crack on the hot prairie." With profusion, lavishly piled on, had the former companies left their dead animals strung through these miles of alkaline stretches. Where the sick animals fell, there they were left to die, while the following outfits steered their sniffling oxen past the various carcasses. The water, the
*Parkman, The Oregon Trail, Little, Brown and Company?Public Library, also U. Of U. Library. Also see "The Great Trail" in The Pathbreakers From River to Ocean, Hebard, The Lakeside Press, Chicago. All Libraries.