LIKE A QUIET STREAM 399
All her life, Lottie has thought of others before herself. Even as a girl, she was a peacemaker of the family. There is never a sick-bed in the neighborhood that she does not visit with loving helpfulness. There is never a woman in distress whom she does not comfort. "She is the saving angel of our neighborhood," one of her neighbors said in gratitude. Lottie had always been fragile physically. When she was scarcely forty, a very serious illness caused her months of anguished suffering and nearly took her life. Perhaps she would have died, had it not been that she had always lived simply and hygienically. After several serious operations, she recovered, but her hearing was impaired. It steadily grew worse, and soon she was almost entirely deaf. Each Sunday some one of her many friends in the ward goes to Church with her and writes down the sermon. She bears her sufferings patiently and without complaint. One of her friends says of her, "If most women had endured what she has, they would have been dead ten years ago." Her patience and faith have enabled her to bear loneliness and suffering. Undaunted by the misfortune of losing her hearing, she who had loved music and friendly talk went on with her quiet, good life. Lottie is a frail little woman, but so agile that you would never guess her to be seventy. She still prefers walking to riding, even when her walk is several miles long. Anatole France said, "time deals gently with those who take it gently." Aunt Lottie does not seem so old as her years say she is. She has always been patient and uncomplaining?she has "taken time gently." Her hair is grey, but her face still looks at the world with a young interest. She laughs often. In her face, which conceals nothing, are written the joys and sorrows of a sympathetic and sincere nature. The wrinkles of her face are not deep lines, but only the permanent marks of the expressions of her personality. Her clothes are up-to-date in style, but somehow she has never lost a bit of a quaint old-fashioned look. It cannot be her clothes that give it. It must be the sweetness of her face?making one think of patchwork quilts on four-poster beds and of chests of linen scented with lavender. Somehow, an expression in her eyes dominates her sweet face. There is something behind their smile that seems to be questioning and searching hungrily. They look out from a sensitive, sympathetic personality, shut off in loneliness from the things that are sounding all about her. No trumpets ever blare to announce Lottie's accomplishments. No heralds shout her name down the streets. But, for all that, many "rise up and call her blessed."