[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Double | Author: Woodbury]
-<-oDouble (Beauty Lena Woodbury lin April, Los Robles is the most beautiful street in Pasadena. It is lined on either side with the camphor tree, a well-branched evergreen with shining leaves. The trunk and branches are dark brown, almost black, a striking background for the glistening foliage. In April the old leaves turn red and yellow and drop in great profusion as the new growth appears. Ters are piled high. The sidewalks are covered, the street ls covered, the gutIs it Los Robles I love or is it memories of such scenes of my childhood? [ am kicking through the leaves on my way to school, those great piles of red and gold and brown, the rich treasures that the trees almost overnight have cast at my feet. I see them flying before me in the wind. All the crackle of them as I scuffle along. I hear this flash of color and movement is mine to catch and to remember. I see my dearest older sister, even then a mother with several children, coming to visit my mother. Flings herself down into the leaves, rolls delightedly down the slope. W. At the bottom of the lawn she rolls right into the small irngation ditch full what joy! Seeing the lawn so covered with leaves, she kicks her feet joyously, What freedom, of water which had been hidden by the carpet of leaf color. As I drive up Los Robles in April I laugh. The laugh is for an autumn of long ago. A Utah autumn. For those who are no longer children, beauty is always double. The beauty of today, and just as immediate, the beauty of yesterday, are tied inseparably together by the ribbon of memory. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1894 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" AN ETCHING: It was a bright, clear morning in the Wasatch Range. The lofty, alpine valley near the head of the canyon, high up among the peaks, lay gleaming in the morning sun. White stemmed quaking aspens stood out in sharp relief against a background of dark pines. Their pale green leaves, shot through with golden sunbeams, trembled lightly in the gentle breeze....

Above and beyond the fringe of trees stretched an unbroken forest, and still beyond, yet in the near distance, rose rocky cliffs and snowy summits, outlined in grey and white against the deep blue sky. —Anna D, Thrall SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING: Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp, professor and practical teacher of obstetrics, will open a school of obstetrics in Salt Lake City the first Monday in May. A half yearly course will be taught for the unprecedented low terms of ten dollars. —Selected WHEN THE SUMMER COMES AGAIN There will be glad rejoicing When the summer comes again, When the rivers break their fetters And the rills throw off their chains All living things as in one voice, Will unite in glad acclaim. The vestments of glad adorning, Will be worn through earth's domain.. All its forces northward streaming When the summer comes again. —L. M. Hewlings WOMAN FARMER: Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith of Cambridge City, Indiana, proprietor of one of the finest Shorthorn herds in the country.... Believes there is no spot equal to a farm for at once furnishing a competence and enabling a woman to establish a beautiful home and bring up her children nobly. —Selected. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SANPETE: The Relief Society Conference of the Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the Spring City Meeting House, December 16th. President M. A. P. Hyde presiding. The branches of the Relief Society of Fayette, Gunnison, Sterling, Moroni, Chester, Mt. Pleasant, Wales, Spring City and Ephraim represented. Counselor Sarah Peterson was pleased with the humble spirit manifested.. Spoke at some length on the storing of grain and culture of silk. President Canute Peterson advised the sisters to gather wheat for it will be needed. —Mary A. F. Hansen, Sec. Page 238 PRESIDEN? FORD, of Society board, distributed by broadcast, balloon, Ot otherwise, to Iron Curtain from the people of America them: selves (not the Government) iS astonishingly inspiring %0 the recipients. RENLEY ALBRIGHT, after a courageous come-back from Po lio, became, 11 1953» the first United States girl ever to win the world figure-skating championship. One io January, Mrs. Hattie Whitney G.) Saville died. She Newell K. Er, was recently paid Ramona Ww. Cannon and Mary Cravath Whitney, pioneers of 1847. She was a former president of Ensign Stake Young Women's Mutual [Improvement Association. Los" KARMEL was 4 young high school girl 1 Poland when the Nazis 'nvaded. She spent two ears in concentration camps; where on the backs of She was later graduated from Harvard University, where she is now a teaching-fellow. Her first novel, Stephania, was a Literary Guild selection last spring. MABEL BORG JENKINS, Salt Lake City musician and teacha high tribute by internationally famous Johannesen, spoke of his former teacher as being the "most important" in his long BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs quist, Tremonton, ninety-ml th birthday; CO->