[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: New | Author: Eggs]
lew Designs for Gaster &ggs Courtesy Dennison Manufacturing Company Here is a basketful of ideas to help you design the many eggs to fill some lucky youngster's Easter basket. The simplest of materials are used to create these amusing art studies in egg form! Starting with the basic form—the egg—we suggest that you buy a dozen china ones, the type farmers use to set an example for their negligent flock. These are sturdier than their genuine brothers and will keep indefinitely. Of course, if you prefer, you may use real ones, either hard boil or blow each egg before decorating it. Eggs may either be dyed with any pure food dye or covered with pastel crepe paper. In addition to material used for coloring eggs, you will need bits of colored crepe paper, paper lace, doilies, paste, scraps of mat stock, ribbons, tiny gummed dots and hearts. To make these masterpieces proceed as follows: GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS Step 1—Color eggs—dye them, following the directions on the dye package, or wind them with % inch wide strips of crepe paper cut across the grain, pasting strips frequently as you wind so they will stay in place. 1. CYNTHIA: Here's a charming little lady all done on an egg! Wrap the egg first with pink crepe paper (or use a pink dye) to give her a lovely glowing complexion. Her dashing hairdo is made from narrow strips of yellow crepe paper curled around a knitting needle on the ends. Her mouth is a gummed heart—her eyes light blue and white crepe paper, with curling black eyelashes. A paper lace doily makes a fetching hat, especially when dashingly decorated with a pompon of slashed light blue crepe paper. Page 256 NEW DESIGNS FOR EASTER EGGS 257 _ 2. PERSONALITY EGG: Use the favorite colors of the recipient for this egg, a nice pastel one for the background, with two contrasting colors teaming up to make the two-strand braid. The name is written with a % inch wide strand of a deeper shade, twisted to make a fine cord. Trace name on egg first. Apply paste over written name with a toothpick to hold twist in place. Trim edges from a paper doily, paste in place, allowing it to flare slightly. Paste braid over inside edge of doily. 3. FLOWERS IN A FRAME: Cover the egg with orchid-colored crepe paper and decorate it with a braid of pink and deep rose crepe paper. Make rosebuds by cutting two-inch wide strips of crepe paper across the grain in several shades (light pink, dark pink, ted, yellow). Unfold a strip and wind it on itself to make a tiny roll about % inch thick, then cut off remaining length of crepe strip and paste another color to the roll. Roll this second strip around first roll to make a % inch thick strip. Repeat process with third color to make a three-colored rose. Paste end of last strip down to roll, and paste "rosebuds" on egg, using a few leaves cut from green paper to complete the bouquet. 4. QUIGLEY THE QUACK: Wrap two eggs with canary yellow crepe paper. Cut two bill patterns from mat stock and cover mith amber athe paper. Paste. To narrow end of one egg. Cut eyes from colored writing paper (blue), and for the center of the eye, cut a small square of black paper. Paste eyes on sides of egg. Paste the "egg head" on top of another paper-covered egg towards the wide end. Wind around the neck a strip of yellow crepe paper tie ribbon and make a bow. Then paste the completed Quigley to mat stock covered with amber crepe paper.