[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: Let | Author: Williams]
Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE C. WILLIAMS Let Your Sable Sell a Story Helen S. Williams I ae of parties is instinctive, virtually, to most of us. Friends just naturally seek friends to sew, to knit, or chat with, or to be entertained by someone wlio is talented in music or storytelling. To some a party means just to get together—nothing more—nothing less. To Florence C. Williams, however, a party, either large or small, is an occasion, an event. No matter who the guests are, whether they are two or three precious old friends who come for a bit of lunch, or twenty, or fifty persons of distinction invited to dine formally, Florence Williams gets an idea and develops it into an ingenious work of art, interest, and originality. What are the guests going to do? Have they any special interest? What are their hobbies? What season is it—and what is at hand to make this party something in particular? These are the questions Mrs. Williams asks herself when she begins to plan for a party. On her table and at her parties she uses the essential principles which make for artistry: first, beautiful color; second, a focal point of interest; third, a flowing rhythm; fourth, original and unique accents; and fifth and most important, harmony and beauty. Above is pictured a table set for a sewing-bee luncheon. It is exquisitely planned in every detail. Yet everything used could be found in almost any home. 'Three, six, Page 246 LET YOUR TABLE TELL A STORY. ) 247 or eight could sit around this table and catch the spirit for a delightful afternoon of sewing.; A lovely bouquet exquisitely proportioned rises from a plain wicker sewing basket. Because the basket happened to be lined with yellow satin, Mrs. Williams chose pale yellow as her color scheme, and carried out all the details in harmony with the color. Daisies with yellow centers, grouped artistically, give the arrangement great style. They are arranged high and to one side. Then the soft ball of white yarn stuck with knitting needles, and the skeins of yellow wool in light and dark shades, balance the bouquet perfectly and create her focal point of interest on the table. Any lovely arrangement must have a feeling of motion, and the rhythm of this table is achieved by the pale yellow ribbons running artistically out from one side of te basket, with spools of yellow and white thread slipped on them and tied in casual ows. The clever and necessary accents are the buttons, tape measures, and tiny emery bags in the shape of strawberries. These follow the graceful curving lines from the centerpiece to the corner of the table, creating a lovely sense of rhythm. They add interest and carry out the theme for the afternoon of stitching and knitting. A beautiful table always gives a feeling of complete harmony. The cloth, place cards, flowers, and gifts must blend to express the central idea. Thus the cloth used is pale yellow organdy, around the edge of which are appliqued daisies, duplicates of the ones growing out of the basket. The place cards are large daisies (they may be artificial or natural). 'Their centers little pincushions with yellow and white headed pins stuck upright in them. On the corner of the table rests the guest prize which carries out and completes the unusualness of the central idea. The box was originally just a plain plastic spool box bought at a notion counter, but it has been glorified for this lovely spring sewing bee with various shades of yellow thread. Each spool has a tiny ring of seed pearls, circling its top. The box itself, fit for a queen, has been adorned with gold braid and rows and rows of little pearls. The recipient of this lovely and unusual gift will have it to adorn her sewing table for months to come as a gentle reminder of a wonderful afternoon as the honored guest of a friend who entertained so beautifully. Yes, Florence Williams is an artist. She loves people, and her hobby is planning and giving ideas for parties, ideas that make her parties linger on and on in the memories of those who attend. Surely after an afternoon at this lovely sewing party, the guests would leave humming softly to themselves, "We are sewing, daily sewing," and thinking, why I could do a table on that order myself, and have my friends come to a party at my house! O< Lt Happens Svery Spring Verda Mackay Blossoms burst their bonds Fragile as chantilly lace Which each new spring is changed; Thus nature weaves a different pattern With all things rearranged. The Part-Time Heart Hannah Smith AL was taking her out to M dinner later, so Evelyn hadn't eaten with the family, but she had sat at the table with them. There was a lot of talking to catch up on, with her grandfather home again after so long a time. The dining room on a chilly California evening was a pleasant place, with the overhead light drawing the seven Adams faces into an animated circle around the table. The words and phrases ran_together: "Joe says he hates the Korea weather... You give the flag salute tonight... Four years before they put the road through pinch of rosemary in it you can always borrow a bugle." Rob, her twenty-year-old brother, was teasing his mother with a far-fetched account of his pre-medical school day; nineteen-year-old Kat had a letter from Joe Hanson in Korea she kept trying vainly to read aloud, and her father and Philip were arguing in a serious, important undertone about the scout meeting in the family basement that night. Then there was Gramps; there were so many things everyone wanted to ask him, even though they had been plying him with continuous questions ever since he got back from his trip to Ecuador. Evelyn sat with her chin cupped in her hands, her blonde hair falling forward in two soft fans on either side of her intent, pretty face, looking first at one and then Page 248 another of them, but most often at her grandfather, so worn and sparse-looking, his eyesight failing, but still seeming so young, hopeful, and full of the serene happiness she always associated with him. She felt an echo of the same happiness within herself, with the family all together again at last, and ahead of her a long evening with Mal. Mal! She caught a glimpse of the clock and gasped out loud. "Oh, no!" She jumped up. "It just can't be seven-thirty already! Mal's coming at eight!" "Hurry, hurry!" jeered Kat. "Old Sobersides will be mad if you're late." "Won't Deadpan wait for you?" Rob drawled, sticking out a long leg as if to trip her, as she started pell-mell for the door. Evelyn gave them an _ absentminded grimace and dashed for the stairs. Running up to her room, she thought wryly of their nicknames for Mal. She couldn't wonder at them, really—there were two Mals, the reserved, stiff-faced one the family always met on his fleeting appearances in the front hall, and the Mal she knew and loved— the endearing and affectionate one who made her feel so special and priceless, the Mal she was going to malty. She knew, though, that after what had happened Saturday, Mal would be even more stiff and uncommunicative tonight than usual. It would never do to let him know THE PART-TIME HEART she had been dawdling at the table instead of getting ready; it would only add another point in the score he was totaling against her family. When the doorbell rang, she erabbed up her coat and purse and ran, but when she got to the landing she saw that Mal was already inside, talking to her mother. From above he looked polite enough; there was even a smile on his dark, craggily handsome face, but Evelyn went down the steps so fast she was breathless when she reached the downstairs hall. ER mother turned a_ calmly pleasant face and Evelyn drew an unconscious sigh of relief. "Evie tells me this is a big evening, Mal. A celebration." Mrs. Adams smiled up at him as she put het arm around Evelyn. Usually Evelyn would have returned the hug, but now, with Mal's eyes on her, she busied herself drawing on her gloves. "I've been counting the minutes!" she said gaily. "Really?" he said, and there was a faint edge of hostility in his voice. He steered her out the door with the briefest of goodnights to her mother and—just as she had feared —flared out at her before they were off the front steps. "Counting the minutes? Is that why you broke our date Saturday night?" "Oh, honey!" Evelyn put her hand on his topcoat sleeve, looking up at his face. Even in the dark she knew his expression—that baffling blend of reticence and hurt. "I told you over the phone how it was, Mal! Gramps got home that 249 evening—the first any of us had seen him for five whole years. I couldn't have been away when he came, now could I?" "If it hadn't been that it would have been some other vital family affair." Mal shook off her hand and strode ahead to open the car door. "Won't you be seeing your grandfather every day from now on?" Evelyn sighed, getting into the car. She turned on the overhead light so she could smile into Mal's face as he came around and slid under the wheel. "T love you, Mal," she said, pleadingly. "And this is the anniversary of the night we met. Let's not fight, darling." "But it wasn't a year ago tonight," Mal said stonily. "It was a year ago Saturday night." "I wanted you to come over, too —to spend the evening with all of I us. We had such a nice " "I know. A nice family evening." She ran a cajoling finger along his jaw, and he smiled reluctantly. "All right, all right," he said. "But it seems to me sometimes that I come after all the Adams clan. You love me devotedly—part time." She slid her fingers between his and the steering wheel. "Where are we going? Some place special? I'm starved." He started the car. "Well, I made reservations at E] Pollo for dinner, and I've got tickets for the play at the Biltmore." Evelyn put her cheek against his shoulder for a brief minute. "Oh, that's lovely. Just like last year. You're sentimental." "Pretty foolish," he replied gruff- 250 ly, "to be so sentimental, I mean. A man lays himself wide open when he's in love with a girl." "Oh," Evelyn laughed, "you know that's what I like about you!" They drove into the parking lot beside the Mexican cafe and Mal helped her out. "I even got the same table we had last year," he announced. Evelyn nodded with delighted recollection, as he seated her, wondering if the two guitarists in the balcony weren't even playing the same music they'd played a year ago. "Everything's exactly the same. Except that there are a lot more drippings on this candle, the proprietor looks a good bit fatter, and Kat and Joe aren't " é GHE broke off quickly, hoping Mal hadn't heard, but when he sat down she saw that his eyes were resentful again. "You wish they were, I suppose. Evelyn, can't you spend even one evening away from your precious family?" She reached out to touch his hand, to make him look. At her. "Mal," she said, holding his troubled gaze, "Mal, I promise you, you come first with me. If you really knew my family, you'd know they wouldn't " "Well, well! Look who's here Neither Evelyn nor Mal had seen the tall, bald man or the little, bustling red-haired woman until the pair stopped beside their table. "Been wanting to meet this man!" Mal gave them a blank stare, then glanced at Evelyn. She was returning their smiles with what appeared to be joyful warmth. We? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 "Why, hello, Aunt Laura! Uncle Fred! How nice!" "We won't be butting in if we sit with you, will we?" 'The little woman was already motioning to a waiter. "Bring a couple of chairs, will you?" Mal had struggled to his feet; he took Aunt Laura's coat, shook Uncle Fred's hand. He didn't look at Evelyn. "My this is a pleasant surprise," Aunt Laura kept saying. "Been wondering when we'd see you, young man!" She wagged a coy finger at Mal, and Evelyn groaned inwardly. "Marry into the Adams family, boy, and you'll see relatives a-plenty!" Uncle Fred was saying, giving Mal a heavy wink. "Are those enchiladas any good?" Mal nodded. "Very," he said. He sounded polite enough, but the painful color in Evelyn's cheeks deepened., Aunt Laura kept up a steady flow of high-pitched inconsequential chatter, punctuated by Uncle Fred's heavy rumble, and Evelyn replied, smiled, nodded, as her misery increased by the minute. When the waitress came for their dessert order, Evelyn shook her head. "We'll have ours somewhere after the show," she said quickly. "We're in a bit of a hurry; we're going to a play." Out in the car she turned to Mal with a rueful smile. "Mal," she pleaded. "I'm sorry. Aunt Laura is—well, sort of silly, I know. We don't see them often, but they're very good-hearted.." I Her voice trailed off, knowing her words sounded weak, defensive. THE PART-TIME HEART AL laughed shortly. "Sure you didn't tell them we were coming? 'That you'd feel lonesome without some of the Adams clan along?" She sighed, "Oh, honey, what can I do to prove to you that I'm not tied to my family? That this idea is." "TI tell you," Mal said suddenly, seizing her hands. "Evelyn, let's get married next week. No wedding breakfast. No reception." Evelyn stared at him, wide-eyed. "Oh, Mal! 'There's no reason for us to " "Isn't there? You said once you didn't want a big fuss. Was that just talk?" "No! No, I meant that. But a wedding breakfast at home with just the." The motor roared. "Just the family!' Mal said. He _ backed swiftly out of the parking lot. He gave her one bitter glance. "Just the family," he repeated scornfully. "Not even a groom, maybe. That sums it up, I guess." Evelyn saw that he wasn't driving toward the theatre, but she didn't care. She stared straight ahead. "It—it would hurt Mom's feelings." "Marriage is made for two. And no more," he insisted. Of course Mal was right.