[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Within | Author: Day]
["Within Our Reach" by Donna Day]

She has given away about four hundred pieces of crocheted work, and her crocheting has been exhibited in twelve states. She also makes exquisite artificial flowers. She has another hobby of raising outdoor flowers, specializing in iris, of which she has about two hundred varieties, and roses of seventy-five varieties. Her Church work has included many years of service in the Primary Association, including four years as ward president; teaching in Sunday School; and visiting teacher and theology class leader in Relief Society. She has thirty grandchildren (including step-grandchildren) and four great-grandchildren. Page 258 Participation in Relief Society Can Help Achieve Irae Happiness Edith Kaneko ated through service—service to our fellowmen and to God. Happiness comes from within. It is the result of satisfying the soul. We have a responsibility to be happy, not alone because of its effect upon us, but because of its effect upon others. By living the commandments of God and giving of our time and service to others, we may forget our difficulties and also spread happiness to others. In regard to this, I asked our ward Relief Society President, Pearl Fillmore, what the Relief Society has done for her. Was it just a lot of hard work, or just what did it mean to her? She told me, "Yes, there is a lot of hard work—hours and hours of it; but the joy I've received from seeing the happiness that has come to others through my efforts has repaid me many fold. Also, coming to Relief Society meetings and associating with the sisters has helped to take my mind off our trials and tribulations." I should like to relate my personal experience, because in it I can best explain how true happiness was passed on to me through an act of kindness by two of the Relief Society sisters of my ward, an act that may have seemed trivial to them. I was born and reared in Tremonton, Utah, and my husband was born in Salt Lake City, but spent most of his life in Gunnison, Utah. One of his high school Te greatest happiness is crethe time. Teachers was Brother Payton Alexander, and his Seminary teacher was Brother LeRoy Whitehead. After our marriage we decided to strike a happy medium and settle in Spanish Fork, which is about halfway between our former homes. That was in 1941, when war clouds were hanging heavily over us, and I often wondered how the people of Spanish Fork would react to our coming, since there were strained feelings between the people of the land of my ancestors and the people of this, our beloved country. Would they accept us, and if they did, to whom could we look for companionship? — Such questions ran through my mind constantly as we worked at making a home for us and our little boy, who was just one year old at As if in answer to a prayer, one day in the autumn of that year, two Relief Society visiting teachers came and _ invited me out to Relief Society. Sister Ann Nelson and Sister Fanny Vincent have probably forgotten this little incident, but I have not, because the visit they made to me opened up a way towards a greater and brighter life. Little do they realize how much they have contributed toward making my life what it is today. They were so friendly and so sincere that I had a strong desire to attend their meeting. However, I was just a little hesitant, so I asked my husband how Page 259 260 he felt about it. He told me that since I was invited, I should go. So two or three weeks later I attended my first Relief Society meeting, still a bit doubtful. But all my doubts and fears left me when I entered the meetinghouse and went into the Relief Society room. Never before had I been in a place where friendliness prevailed in such rich abundance. I could feel that the spirit of the Lord was there, although I knew nothing about the Church at that time. EVER will I forget the warm welcome extended to me by Sister Ida Anderson, who was the president at that time. I shall never forget her kind personality and the sweet smile with which she quickly put me at ease. I did not have the privilege of knowing her very long, as she passed away a short time later. I went home from Relief Society that day with a feeling of satisfaction that there are friends, if we look in the right places for them, and I had a stronger desire than ever to go back again. It wasn't very long until they asked me if I would like to become a member, and this was a great surprise to me, as I thought that only those who belonged to the Church were allowed that privilege. As time went on, I became more and more acquainted with the activities of the Relief Society and of the Church in general. A short time later I was asked to join the Singing Mothers, and no one can realize the joy I experienced from my participation in that work, because I love music, and up to that time had had very little opRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 portunity to satisfy my desire to sing. As time went on, I was getting to the point that I thought that I had attained the height of happiness, but, on second thought, I realized that I had not, and I would never attai