FOLKS.

	My dear young friends, who are just
starting out upon your voyage through the
sea of matrimony, I wish you a long and
happy one. Of all the institutions that af-
fect human weal or woe, none is greater than
marriage. All the happiness and blessed-
ness that attends the married state depends
upon the honesty and wisdom of that union.
Marriage is not always a blessing it may be

[Column 2]
the bitterest curse. Of all pictures pres-
ented in the book of life, an illy-mated pair
is the most wretched. But a proper soul-
linked union is a constant, heaven born joy.
But do not think because you have such a
dear kind companion, that you can live only
with his smiles and caresses, for they are
very uncertain, especially when your whole
happiness depends upon them. Our Father
says He is a jealous God, and wants not a
divided heart, and that "Curseth is he who
maketh flesh his arm." But let us be sub-
ject to the principles of righteousness, wear-
ing the ornament of a meek and lowly spirit,
which, in the sight of God, is a "pearl of
great price," and if there is any way, by
which we can escape some of the evils of
life, let us strive to learn it, and if we do
not always suit each other, let us not sit
down and grieve and fret over it, but go to
our heavenly Father, and ask Him for his
Spirit to guide us, then reason with each
other, and strive to make the best of every
thing.
	You will often hear the remark that it is
the most gifted, gnereous, good-hearted
fellows, that oftenest fall into habits of in-
temperance, but I think the saying can
neither boast of truth nor sense.
	I will give yeu two illustrations: Two
young couples of my acquaintance were
married, having, as near as I can judge
about the same amount of property. One
man bought himself a nice little home,
went to Salt Lake to be married, and there
bought furniture to make his home comfort-
able, on his return gave a nice little party
to his particular friends having nothing
stronger than tea to drink and mirth and
pleasure beamed on every face. I have
visited them since, and she welcomed me
with such quiet modest grace and pride to
her comfortable, happy home, that it filled
my heart with joy.
	The other couple were married at St.
George at the residence of the bride's father.
He gave a famous supper and ball to every
one for miles around, and wine and strong
drinks with the refreshments.

	The affair was jolly but not pleasent.
After the expenses were paid, and the frolic
over, he had just five dollars left, but he is
such a good-hearted, generous fellow, you
can go to his house with a dozen friends,
and he would feel insulted if you offered
him pay for his accommodations.

	Six months after the wedding, I
visited my brother, when who should his
neighbor be but our generous friend? My
niece and I called to see them. She met us
at the door, with tears in her eyes, which she
explained were caused from smoke. She
invited us to sit down out doors, as the
room was so filled with smoke we could not
see in it, but we ascertained she had not
furniture to make things comfortable; and I
could not help thinking, and asking myself,
how is this, does he think more of such
friends as he treated at his wedding than
he does of his wife? Or is it selfishness, tha[-]
he indulges himself in, and denies his wife
tho common necessities of life.She appeared
to think it was all generosity;but I thought
was it generous to give those poor weak
souls so much wine, and thereby excite
their appetite for it, and rob himself and

[Column 3]
wife the comfort they might have taken in a
pleasant home. And she seemed so patient
and hopeful, never deeming it a fault in
him, but bearing all such things in uncom-
plaining silence, afraid to show him his
error, lest she should wound his generous
heart; when, perhaps, a little reasoning
and plain talk, might have caused him to
see the folly of such proceedings.
	I have given these illustrations to show
the result of the paths pursued by those
two young men; hoping it may help and
encourage the young married folks who
read it, for in starting out together in life,
they need advice, encouragement and as-
sistance.
	Weaver,in his "Aims and Aids for young
women," in speaking on the subject of
marriage, says: "The mottoe of each should
be, 'I will be do and bear all I can, and
ask as little as possible." These are
golden words of advice.
