WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I have often felt impressed with a great
desire to write my feelings and the thoughts
that pass through my mind while meditat-
ing on the work of God, and as I am a great
thinker, I have been led to contemplate the
glorious and most wonderful works of the
Almighty, and it causes my heart to rejoice
that I live in this day and age of the world,
and that my spirit has been reserved till
"this dispensation of the fulness of times;"
and I wish to bear my testimony to the
work of God. I know that this is the
true church and kingdom of God, and it
will break in pieces all other churches, and
will stand, no more to be thrown down.
My desire is to do good, although I feel
that I am one of the weakest of my sisters;
but I know that if we are humble and faith-
ful and prayerful before God that He will
bless us. I have often thought I would
like to cast in my mite with those that
write for the woman's paper; their words
are a great comfort to me, and I trust to all
who are interested in the Gospel.
	Let us, my sisters, live our religion at
home, and let us be ever ready to respond
to every call of those who are placed over
us. We hold our meetings every two
weeks, in the meeting house, and a good
spirit prevails amongst us. Let us keep
the Spirit of God in our hearts, having


charity for each others feelings, and the
Lord will bless us. Ever praying for the
welfare of Zion,
	ANN TATE,
Tooele, Jan. 18, 1830.

	We live In a veay eventful age of the
world when a great many wonderful things
are transpiring. We are trying through
the help of our heavenly Father and his
Holy Spirit to stand the test; for every
thing will be shaken that can be shaken.
Many of us have prayed from our childhood
“Thy will be done on earth as it is done in
heaven.” How can it be so? By keeping
all the commandments of God, blameless
before him,and honoring his holy priesthood
placed over us in these the last days.
Knowing these things let us stand firm in
the liberty of the everlasting Gospel.
	There is a test coming that will try all,
therefore let us examine ourselves and see
if we are in the faith for all nations will
fight against Zion saying "let her be de-
filed” but they know not the thoughts of
the Lord. They are blind leaders of the
blind and we are told they will both fall in-
to the ditch. Then my dear sisters let us
go forward in the cause of truth doing our
duty each day. We have many things to
do while the day lasts, “for the night
cometh when no man can work. The
Gospel of our Lord and Savior made known
by a holy angel flying through the midst of
heaven saying with a loud voice the hour
of his judgment is come has reached our
ears; ,and "Blessed are our eyes for they
see and our ears for they hear and if we are
found among those wise virgins who will
be ready to meet the Great Bridegroom
when he appears we must be on the watch
tower; otherwise we shall be cut off and
our portion will be with the hyporcrit and 
the unbeliever. We cannot do too much
for the kingdom; then let us feed the poor
do good to the fatherless and widow for
this is pure and undefiled religion, we have
a blessed opportunity to do so in many ways
and through our Relief Societies which are
found all over the Territory and in different
places in the world where the Gospel has
been preached: sisters let us be modest in
our appearance and let our garments be the
work of our own hands. Let us be neat and
tidy and set good examples before each
other and God will bless us. And let us
sustain Home-manufacture and not pattern
after the fashions of Babylon for she is going
to fall and great will be her fall. Great
and mighty changes will take place ere
long, thrones will totter and be cast down,
and nation will fight against nation and the
earth will be made desolate and few men
will be left. The nations are doomed to
destruction for God has said "come out from
among them and be ye clean that bear the
vessels of the Lord." Many things are
transpiring before our eyes. They are tak-
ing counsel against, God’s united ones and
therefore he will laugh at their calamity,
and mock when their fear cometh because
they have rejected His Gospel and killed
them that were sent unto them. And the
Lord will come out of his hiding place
and vex the nation in his sore despleasure.
	I will now conclude wishing the EXPO-
NENT all the success it deserves as an EXPO-
NENT of truth and an advocate in the cause
of Woman.	MARY ELLEN MCKAY.


