DEATH OF AMELIA M. FRODSHAM.

	Died, in Ogden City, at the residence of
Mayor L. J. Herrick, at fifteen minutes to
twelve o'clock, midnight, Jan. 24, 1880, of a
tedious and lingering illness, Mrs. Amelia M.
Frodsham. Mrs. Frodsham was removed tem-
porarily on a visit, to the Mayor's residence,
thinking the change might prove beneficial.
	Deceased was the daughter of Joseph and
Amy C. Aldrich, and was born in Rochester,
N. Y., Aug. 7, 1826, and was baptized in 1841,
in Northbridge, Mass., and emigrated to Nau-
voo, Ill. With her mother she started for
Utah in 1852; her mother died by the way,
with cholera, and was buried upon the plains,
leaving her daughter without a relative. In
1853, in Salt Lake City, she was united in mar-
riage to the late James Frodsham. During her
widowhood she has supported herself and fam-
ily by teaching school, a calling which she had
followed previous to her marriage. She pos-
sessed many excellent capabilities, and was
well qualified, by nature and education, to fill
efficiently positions of trust and honor. She
acted as Secretary for the Relief Society of


Ogden for ten years, and when the Relief So-
ciety of Weber Co. was organized in a Stake
capacity, Mrs. F, was chosen as Secretary of
that board, because of her fitness and indomit-
able energy in work of that character. She
also acted as agent for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for Ogden City from the date of its publication,
and faithfully performed all these duties. The
lady was also President of the Fourth Ward
Primary Association of Ogden, and was pecu-
liarly adapted to the work, having a remarka-
ble tact and adaptability, and a powerful influ-
ence over the little children, who were affec-
tionately attached to her. She was full of
charity, and possessed that rare saintly attri-
bute of speaking "of all the best she could."
It is said by those who were intimately asso-
ciated with her, that she never spoke evil of
any one. She was active and earnest in the
latter-day work, and anxious to do all in her
power to promote the interests of the various
organizations for the education and elevation
of women and children. She died full of faith
in a glorious resurrection, and the last words
upon her lips were blessings upon those who
had so faithfully attended upon her and ad-
ministered to her comfort and consolation.
She leaves one son and three daughters to
mourn her loss. The funeral services were
conducted at the residence of Mayor Herrick,
where her death occurred. Bishop N. C. Fly-
gare, Apostle F. D. Richards, and Coun. L. J.
Herrick each spoke upon the principles of the
Gospel, its efficacy in times of affliction, and
referred to the merits of the deceased lady, her
faith and good works.


