SIMPLE JUSTICE—WOMAN'S RIGHT.

Is it not truly a wondrous stride,
That man has stepped down from his stately pride,
To discuss for woman the right and wrong,
When woman has suffer'd the last so long?
Were her aims more selfish, less kind her soul,
There would be some limit to man's control;
But busied with labor that love doth bring,
She [-]ath yielded her rights to [-]reation's king
Forgetful of self, amid affection's cares,
She has yielded to bondage unawares
'Tis strange, while the world still grows and thrives,
So little is claimed by mothers and wives.

Some rights to woman, do [-]en concede,
Of which we ought to be proud indeed
The right to live, to love, to mate,
The right to brighten man's lonesome fate,
To drain from Nature's bitterest cup,
The dregs, that Mothers alone may sup;
The right to maternal care and toil
The right to be easy about the sp[-]i[-],
To ble[-]s mankind from their earliest breath,
And comfort them e'en to the verge of death,
In peace and war to softly tread,
And smooth with kindness the sufferers bed;
To stand at her post like a heroine brave,
To bless, to brighten. to soothe, to save.
'Tis strange that a woman has no right.
To simple justice, without a fight;

There are men we know, both honest and true,
Alas for women they are but few!
Who plead our cause, yet they plead in vain,
Woman fair woman! still wears a chain.
'Tis a mournful fact: should she chance to care,
To onward move, lo! The chain is there.
If we stand but still, nor progressive be,
We may wear these chains to Eternity;
And like many a woman, never know,
That gallantry often, is outside show.

Man is unpinion'd, free as air,
No social drag is he doomed to wear
He has physical strength, he has money and might,
Should he monopolize every right
Nature and custom hath made him free,
Surely he ought to generous be.
Would a woman be less kind and true,
If her honest aims were unfettered too?
Is a woman spoilt? is she vain at all?
Because the sunshine doth on her fall?
Doth she kneel to man, for the sunsbeams bright?
She simply enjoys them! it is her right.

Not a woman in twenty perchance will care,
The right of suffrage with man to share:
Not one in a thousand will have the face,
To office hold in a public place;
But it is her right, if she has the time.
And ability too, all heights to climb,
And who in justice, will dare deny,
That woman's efforts are true and high?
Who bears the Statesman, the soldier too?
And tries to make them brave and true?
From many a crime would this world be freed,
If their mother's teachings mankind would heed,
Is it not truly to man a shame,
That the mothers of men, their rights must claim?
Were they grateful only? would men remain
Careless, while woman wears a chain?

