IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

	"Utah is the home of liberty for all, and
peculiarly the sanctuary for woman. Here
all her rights are popularly acknowledged
and accorded; here she is protected and de-
fended; here the conventionalities which
have kept her in bondage for ages are
thrown aside by the force of an enlightened
estimate of her capabilities, and an enlarged
view of her claims as an integral part of the
body politic.
	The right to vote has already been con-
ferred upon her. The laws of the nation
declare her a citizen equally with man; the
laws of this Territory give her equal rights
with man at the polls. This has worked no
injury to any, but will necessarily result in
good. For the power of the suffrage will
develop thought, and its responsibilities
give occasion for reflection,and the enlarged
capacities of woman which will be the nat-
ural consequence, will be transmitted to her
offspring, and benefits will thus accru[-] to
the State in the coming generation. None
of the disasters predicted by the opponents
of woman suffrage have occurred in this
Territory. The women have exercised
their power in wisdom, and have shown
their fitness for the trust reposed in them.
They have not been degraded or polluted
by dabbling in the waters of politics, and
are just as good wives, mothers, sisters,
cousins and aunts as before receiving the
elective franchise.
	Recently they have had some voice in
our caucuses and conventions and nominat-
ing committees; and who can say, truthful-
ly, that this has been in any way inimical to
the community? Giving them the right to
vote without the right to a voice in the ar-
rangement of a ticket or platform on which
to vote would be partial and inconsistent.
	Having done so much for woman's cause,
why halt in timid hesitation before the
last barrier to her political freedom? The
word "male" in our statutes defining the
qualifications of citizens for holding office,
is a relic of the old system of woman's vas-
salage. It is a standing reflection upon her
sex. It is a plain. assertion of her inferi-
ority. It says virtually, "No matter how
wise, intellectual, honest, thrifty, able and
gifted a woman may be, she is not fit to be
entrusted with the responsibilities of the
smallest office in the gift of the people." If
this is not its meaning, then it is a selfish
declaration that all the honors and emolu-
ments of every office shall be reserved to
the stronger sex, because man has the pow-
er to elbow woman out into the cold and
keep her there.
	There are some offices for which women
are not adapted. But are there not also
some offices for which many men are not
adapted? Yet no man, however inefficient,
is debarred by statutory provisions from
such positions. But woman is shut out
from all, and this purely and solely because
she is woman. It is not asked that certain
offices be set apart for either sex. We are
simply requested to move this ugly and
staring brand of woman's political inferority
from our statues book; to render it possi-
ble for women to fill such offices as they
may be fitted to occupy with honor to
themselves and profit to the people. The
good sense of the great body of electors of
both sexes must determine what those
offices may be, and, as in the case of man,
which persons are the most competent to
fill them.
	The bill will not secure a single office to a
single woman—or a married one either. But

[Column 2]
it will break down in Utah a wall which is in
the way of the march of progress,and every
stone and brick of which will yet be entirely
ramoved in every nation that is really civil-
lized. Massachusetts and other States have
commenced the work. Women there can
not only vote on school matters, but hold
official positions on school boards and other
State educational organizations. They
have the same privileges in Kansas. In
Utah, where the elevation of woman as
man's companion, not his slave, is the pre-
vailing social theory, she cannot, under the
law, hold any office of any kind whatever.
	Cache County would have elected a lady
to the office of County Superintendent of
Schools, one who had proven to the people-
her ample qualifications for the post, but
the law forbade it. Salt Lake County con-
templated nominating a talented lady for
the office of County Treasurer, but the dis-
ability which this bill seeks to remove
stood grimly in the way. Now, I do not
cite these as sample offices to which women
should be elected, but merely refer to these
facts in illustration of the subject, and to
show reasons why the discriminating and
egotistical word "male" should be expunged
from the statutes relating to qualifications
for office. Used in this connection, it is a
slur on our wives and sisters and mothers.
It is a vestige of the barbaric estimate of
the gentler sex. Away with it. Blot it out
with the pen of a progressive age and the
ink of advanced ideas. Let it go with its
companion that once stood in the way of
woman suffrage, but was swept into the
limbo of antiquated measures by the besom
of the act of 1870. Give to the women of
Utah—there are none better in the world—
full, perfect and complete political liberty!"


[Column 1]
