			LIZZIE SMITH, Sec'y.

	The Conference of the Relief Society
of Wasatch Stake of Zion was held, in the Hall
at Heber City, Friday the 5th Dec. 1879.
10, A. M. Singing, Prayer. Present on
the stand President Emma Brown and
Counselors Sarah Alexander and Mary Day-
bell, and Secretary Mary Bronson, of the
Relief Society organization. Local Author-
ities, Pres. A. Hatch, Counselor T. Giles,
some Bishops and other brethren, reading
of the Statistical and Financial reports of
Relief Societies Y. L. M. I. A. and Prim-
ary Associations throughout the Stake after
which the time was occupied by the Pres-
idents of the Relief Societies and Associa-
tions in giving in a verbal report all stating
their societies in a prosperous condition.
	President Brown felt pleased to hear such
favorable reports from the several wards.
Exhorted the sisters to be diligent in at-
tending their meetings and this improve
upon the privileges which we enjoy. Bene-
diction, meeting was adjourned until 2
o'clock P. M.
	Afternoon meeting opened in the usual
manner. Presidents that did not give
their reports in the morning occupied the
Stand their remarks were very brief but
given in a very pleasing and comprehensive
manner. Sister Murdock spoke a short
time to the sisters counseling them to take
the EXPONENT, that it is expressly for the
sisters and a medium whereby they can
express their views and advocate the princi-
ples of the kingdom of God, others of the
Sisters made a few remarks on the teaching
and training of children. Said we should
be very diligent in teaching them to pray
and in speaking the truth. That we as
sisters should be very charitable, and kind
to one another. Bishop Foreman said he
felt pleased to come to our meeting and


[Column 1]
could afford to spend a day any time to at-
tend the Sisters Conference. That the Re-
lief Societies were to comfort the sick,
relieve the needy. Said we should be very
careful to have our daughters educated and
trained in the right manner for as a general
thing all noble men had noble mothers.
Others of the brethren expressed themselves
highly pleased to find the Societies in so
good a condition urging the sisters to unite
and to sustain each other. Pres. Hatch was
highly gratified in hearing the reports also
in the manner in which they were given.
Said the object of those Societies was to
sustain the Bishops, in looking after the
poor, and to work in unison with the Priest-
hood. He also felt to sustain and encour-
age home industries. Gave good advice to
the sisters urging them to unity. Said he
thought it would be well to appoint a Sister
in each Society to look after the sick and to
administer herbs according to the Doctrine 
and Covenants.
	A good spirit and feeling prevailed
throughout both meetings.
	Singing. Benediction.
	Statistical and Financial reports of the
Relief Socity of Washatch Stake of Zion for
the year ending Dec, 5th 1879. Statistical,
members enrolled 289; No. EXPONENTS 20;
Financial property receipts $1468,54; dis-
bursed to poor 631, 17; to temple 91, 65;
home industries; 528, 28, books 16, 00;
building property 688,85 property on hand
227, 14; cash on hand 17,55; wheat on hand
426, bus. 30 lbs. $425,21/2.
	MARY BRONSON, Secy’.
	AVIE M. BRONSON Ass’t. Sec’y

	Report of the Quarterly Conference of
Tooele Stake, held in the Meeting House
Grantsville Dec. 13th and 14,th 1879.
	President Mary Ann Hunter presiding.
On the Stand from S. L. City. Sisters S. M
Heywood and S. M. Kimball. Stake officer
Pres. Mary Ann Hunter Coun. Agnes
Rich, Presidents of Wards, Jeanette
De La Mere of Tooele and Jane Eastham of
Grantsville. devotional exercises the read-
ing and acceptance of the minutes of previ-
ous Conference. Ward reports were read
showing that the branches are in good con-
dition. Sister Hunter made a few remarks
and introduced Sister S. M. Kimball who
spoke upon the duties of women and their
advancement in intelligence.
	Sister Heywood spoke on the same sub-
jects and also the storing of grain home
literature and the need of sustaining the
Woman’s EXPONENT.
	Meeting adjourned until 3, o’clock
	Afternoon session was devoted to the 
Primary Association. Evening to the Y.
L. M. I. A, Sunday morning Dec. 15th to
the Sunday School. Afternoon 2 P. M. the
meeting was occupied by Sister S. M. Kim-
ball and Pres. Lyman, who both gave good
instruction Conference adjourned until the
middle of March, 1880.
	M. A. HOUSE. Sec’y.

	On the 1st of Jan, 1880, the sisters of
the Relief Society of Richfield, with some
of the leading brethren, assembled at the
house just completed by the Relief Society,
for the purpose of dedicating it. There
were present on the stand the officers of
the Relief Society of the Stake and branch,
and also Presidents A. K. Thurber and W.
H. Segmiller, of the Stake, Bishops G. W.
Bean, J. S. Horne and P. Poulsen.
	Singing and prayer. Pres. Elizabeth
Bean then arose and thanked the brethren
for their assistance rendered in the erection

[Column 2]
of the house; she realized that without
their help we could not have enjoyed the
privilege of meeting there that day.
	Elder Segmiller next addressed the con-
gregation. Said he was reminded of the
little acorn which grew, little by little, un-
til it became a great tree. Referred to the
difference of the privileges of the women
of Utah and those of Canada and other
places. Commended the diligence and in-
dustry of the R. S. in the erection of their
house. Read from Apostle Snow’s sermon,
and exhorted the mothers to cultivate the
minds of their children and prepare them
to become ambassadors of Jesus Christ,
that they might help to bear His word to
the honest in heart throughout the earth.
	Bishop Poulsen, Bishop Geo. W. Bean,
and Bishop Horne, all made excellent re-
marks on suitable subjects; congratulated
the sisters on their success in building and
furnishing their house. Many good things
were said by others of the brethren and
sisters. After singing meeting was ad-
journed. Benediction.
	Since the Stake organization of the Re-
lief Society we have visited nearly every 
settlement in the Stake, held nineteen
meetings, and completed fifteen organiza-
tions. We feel to go forward in our field
of labor, and do our utmost in the further-
ance of the cause of our Lord.
	Hoping the EXPONENT may ever be a
comfort to the sisters of Zion, and achieve
the success it merits.
	ELIZABETH BEAN, Pres.,
