CONTINUED.

	Gratz Brown, of Mo., said years ago in
the U. S. Senate, "I stand for Universal
Suffrage, and do not recognize the right of
society to limit it on account of color or
sex." Wnether suffrage is a right or privi-
lege, natural or conventional, its denial to
woman is equally indefensible. Minors be-
come of age, slaves are emancipated, luna-
tics regain reason, idiots even are some-
times endowed with intelligence, criminals
are pardoned, traitors are amnestied, dis-
franchised males of every class shed their
disabilities and are restored to liberty; but
the fact of sex—the crime of womanhood—
dooms one to perpetual vassalage. Not the
ability to drink: chew, smoke, lie, steal and
swear, votes. Intellect, conscience, charac-
ter are supposed to vote, and the boy
proudly becoming a citizen before his
mother, is crowned a sovereign at twenty-
one, because in thought, discretion, he
ceases to crawl as an animal, but stands an
upright intelligence. Prof. Walker, in his
"Introduction to American Law," says:
	"We believe the whole theory of the
Common Law in relation to woman is un-
just and degrading, tending to reduce her
to a level with the slave, depriving her of
political existence,and forming a positive ex-
ception to the great doctrine of equality as
set forth in the Declaration of Independence
In the language of Prof. Walker, in his "In-
troduction to American Law," "Women
have no part or lot in the foundation or ad-
ministration of the government. They
cannot vote or hold office. They are re-
quired to contribute their share, by way of
taxes, to the support of the government but
are allowed no voice in its direction. They
are amenable to the laws when made, but

[Column 2]
are allowed no share in making them. This
language, when applied to males, would be
the exact definition of political slavery."
Is it just or wise that woman, in the largest
and professedly the freest and most en-
lightened nineteenth century, should be
thus degraded?
	We would especially direct the attention
of the Convention to the legal condition of
married women. Not being represented in
those bodies from which emanate the laws,
to which they are obliged to submit, they
are protected neither in person nor proper-
ty. "The merging of woman's name in
that of her husband is emblematical of the
fate of all her legal rights." At the mar-
riage altar the law divests her of all dis-
tinct individuality. Blackstone says: "the
very being, or legal existence of the woman
is suspended during marriage, or at least
incorporated or consolidated into that of  her
husband." Legally, she ceases to exist,
and becomes emphatically a new creature,
and is ever after denied the dignity of a
rational and acco[-]ntable being. The hus-
band is allowed to take possession of her
estates, as the law has proclaimed her le-
gally dead. All that she has becomes le-
gally his, and he can collect and dispose of
the profits of her labor without her consent,
as he thinks fit, and she can own nothing
which is not regarded by the law as belong-
ing to her husband. Over her person he
has a more limited power. Still, if he ren-
der life intolerable, so that she is forced to
leave him, he has the power to retain her
children, and "seize her and bring her
back," for he has a right to her society
which he may enforce, either against her-
self or any other person who detains her."
(Walker, page 226.)

(To be continued.)


