	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
Dec. 15th, 1879.
Dear Sister Zina D. Young, * * The


Lord is still blessing us and the land. We
enjoy, as I believe, the spirit of our mission
for our whole soul and desire is to promote
good among this people. The land is being
greatly blessed with an abundance of rain;
an acknowledgement of our temporal
labors, from the Lord. The ten acres of
cane planted after you left is all that I could
wish it to be, not one thing has operated
against its growth since, from time of plant-
ing until the present, and at present it is
perfectly lovely, to look at, to me at least.
	We received those cromos for the Sunday
School children all right and numbered
each one and then let the children draw the
same number on slips of paper put into a
box. The children were perfectly delighted
with their presents and feel thankful to you
for your kindness and I take pleasure in
thanking you for them. We have the
school in very good condition at present.
I started a class in the Book of "Mormon
composed of young men and young women
and some elderly persons. Last Sunday I
had 25, in the class; we read a chapter or
two; and the class present written questions
to be answered on the following Sunday;
the questions to be confined wholy to the
chapter read. I have also a map which I
made, showing the land occupied by the
Nephites to which'we refer when necessary.
    I spoke in my other letter about the 200,
mango trees which we planted. There is
samething remarkable about those trees.
I planted the pits in a box as you remember
when I thought it was about time for them
to show signs of coming up I went and
looked but saw nothing sprouting up; with-
in 6 days from that time I looked again and
lo! behold! there were some of them seven
inches high. I have a great many orange
trees ready to transplant also about 2,000
coffee trees and I am planting seeds as fast
as I can get them.
	On the 4th inst. the Queen Kapiolani
gave us a call and dined with us, we re-
ceived a note from Her Majesty which gave
us a little time and we assembled the
Elders, Priests, Teachers and Decons. The
Relief Society dressed in white; Queen’s
Society. Young Men and Young Ladies So-
ciety. Sunday School and day School with
the Laie Bands in two lines ranging from
the large gate leading up to the house from
the main road by the sea between which
lines Her Majesty and suit passed meeting
myself Benny and Bro. Knell at the large
gate leading into our yard. The reception
seemed to please Her Majesty in fact the
whole entertainment was spoken of by Her
Majesty, after she left, in terms of praise.
She informed a foreigner the notorious Mr.
Lane that she was booked for Laie the next
tour around the Island. I should have
been pleased had you been present on that
occasion. Mrs. C. had a sumptuous dinner
for the party and we all ate together. We
also presented the Queen with “My First
Mission” by Elder George Q. Cannon, which
she accepted with many thanks and said
she would get the King to read and inter-
pert to her. 
	Kind love to your daughter Zina and
yourself in which Mrs. C. and folks join.
We crave your prayers as well as all the
faithful. I remain as ever.
	H. H. Clufl.


[Column 1]
NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

