OBITUARIES.

	DIED, very suddenly, at Harrisburg, Washing-
ton Co., Utah, Jan. 7,1880,Amy,infant daughter
of Zilpha D. and George Earl. She was born
Oct. 20, 1879. "The Lord giveth and the Lord
taketh away, blessed be the name of the
Lord."

	DIED, at Plain City Ward, Weber County,
Utah, Jan. 14, 1880, of old age, Sister Naomi
Ware, aged 86 years, 7 months, and 28 days.
	Deceased was born May 16, 1793, in Lenham


Kent Co., England, and was the daughter of
Samuel and Elizabeth Comfort. Baptized
Dec. 1838, by Elder Miles Romney, at Pen-
worthan, Lancashire, England, of the Preston
Conference; emigrated to Utah in 1855. She
was the mother of thirteen living children, a
member of the R. S., a very industrious wo-
man of strong character, unwavering in her
purpose, and a good Latter-day Saint. May
she rest in peace.				A. B.

	Susan Lucinda, daughter of James T. and
Elizabeth Strong, died with Pneumonia, in
the 10th Ward, S. L. City, Nov. 27, 1879. De-
ceased was born Jan. 21, 1865, in the same
ward of this city. She was a child of very
great faith, and when sick requested the Elders
to be called in often to administer to her. She
was a kind and loving girl, old-fashioned and
industrious, and was greatly beloved by all
who knew her. She was a faithful, active and
constant member of the Primary Association.
Her age at the time of her death was 14 years,
10 months and 5 days.

Farewell, dear Susie, till we meet again;
We would not call you back to gri[-]f and pain;
Watch thou for us upon the river shore,
With friends to greet us that have gone before.

	DIED, in Herriman, Salt Lake Co., Sunday
morning, Oct. 12, 1879, Rosina Silcox, wife of
Robert Dansie, Jun., and daughter of Thomas
N. and Jane Silcox. Deceased was born in
Salt Lake City, Jan. 27, 1856. She leaves a
husband and two children, father, mother and
friends to mourn her loss; one little child is
laid by her side. She was a kind and loving
wife, a tender and affectionate mother, an ex-
cellent neighbor. Mrs. D. was an active mem-
ber in the Relief Society and a teacher in the
Sunday School. Peace to her ashes. May we
live to make a record as clear and good as she
has made.

