BY HANNAH T. KING.

	No woman's library can be complete
without the life of "Currer Bell," her nom
de plume; or, indeed, without her works,
Jane Eyre especially—but "Shirley" and
"Vilette" are as dear to me, and in my
estimation are as valuable. Both as an
author and as a woman, as a daughter, a
sister, a friend, in all these complex, rela-
tive positions Charlotte Bronte stands out
in bold relief as an exemplar to be loved,
admired, respected and exalted. Her life
must be read with intense interest and
sympathy.
	They were a marvellously gifted family,
and were singularly afflicted. Their father
was a clergyman of the Church of England,
Rector of Hawarth, Yorkshire, England,
and as we catch glimpses of his character,
he seems in the main to have been a good
man; his afflictions were heavy, and that
may form some excuse for what I cannot
but call an obtuse mind, for it seems such a
gifted family as he possessed would have
called out any paternal soul to the highest
exertion and enthusiasm. I merely allude
to this to show that the life of his gifted
daughter was an early sacrifice to the heavy
load she had through all her life to carry,
augmented by this inertia. He also was
not fond of children, and did not like to be
intruded upon by them; he was devotedly
attached to his wife, and was ever kind and

[Column 2]
attentive to her. This lady died young,
leaving five little motherless children, Char-
lotte being the eldest; she at once took
upon herself to become the child-mother,
and fulfilled this holy office till the last
child had passed away. Her life was one
long scene of harassing trials, of wearing
responsibilities, sorrows and cares, till her
own life was yielded in the martyrdom of
maternity, within the year of her marriage,
after seeing every member of her family
(except her father) pass away.
	I feel that much that her works contain
were the scenes of her own life. They
were a highly and singularly gifted family,
even as little children; they knew no life
of childhood—they, were matured by early
family sorrows, by the long illness of their
mother, and by the strong love and unity
that bound them as little creatures to each
other with a tenacity that was wonderful,
and this lasted through their lives. And
here is where my complaint comes in
against her father. When Charlotte had
developed into the gifted and accomplished
author, when she had established herself as
an oracle for the women of this generation,
that she must still be the drudge, as it were,
of the domestic circle; but after all, this
shows out the grandeur of her character.
She was a complete business woman, which
her letters testify. I remember when "Jane
Eyre" appeared there was a perfect furore
among all the reading classes; the charac-
ter was so new, so self-reliant, so prompt
and decided, yet withal so womanly—but
such a woman as had not appeared in any
book yet written, that a new phase was
opened to the attributes and capabilities of
woman. It portrayed her standing alone,
marking out her own destiny, and carrying
it out in her development. Had she been
watched and cared for she might have been
a shining light to-day in all that concerns
the progressing life of woman.
	But I would say to my readers, take her
life and study it carefully, for there is every-
thing in it that can exalt a woman, and not
moving one step out of her own sphere, yet
shedding a light and a glory upon it that
all would do well to imitate. Her "Jane
Eyre," "Shirley" and Lucy Snowe," are
indeed model women; they are not finely
spun, tinseled characters, but women that
in the course of our lives we have seen
glimpses of—sufficient to give us an assur-
ance that these book-characters are taken
from the life and not from the imagination,
and we rise from the perusal stronger,
brighter, better, and with a determination
that we will take them as our models, and
more especially she who was the living ora-
cle. Read her life—one scene of schooling,
of severe trials, and yet out of it rose the
author, the accomplished writer for women
of the 19th century. Charlotte Bronte is
immortal, on earth and in heaven.


