HOME AFFAIRS.

	A FEW ladies have attended the Legislature
as visitors now and then; would there were
more. It is good to go and see how they make
and amend the laws which govern women as
well as men. Hear their arguments and con-
sider them—look at them from your own stand-
point.

	BE sure and read the speech of Hon. C. W.
Penrose, published in this issue. The ladies
are greatly indebted to Hon. C. W. Penrose and
Hon. John Jacques, two Members from Salt Lake
Co., who ably advocated the woman's bill before
the House.Excuse it,but,as the Southerners say,
the woman question is calling out some "pow-
derful weak" arguments from its opponents.

	AT a sister's Conference of Morgan Co., an
expression of the meeting was taken on what
is termed the woman's bill, but there was only
a minority vote; however, we have been relia-
bly informed that all the most intelligent ladies
voted for it, and the majority did not under-
stand it—the subject was too new. That sounds
strange from women who have been voting ten
years.

	THE Ladies' Leap Year Ball, held in Jen-
nings Hall, Thursday evening, Jan. 22, was a
most unique affair. Several of the ladies took
a number of partners, and we are informed
they did not neglect them, but paid them every
attention, and there were no wallflowers among
the company. This not only does the ladies
credit, but shows they observe the Golden
Rule, "Do unto others as you would they
should do unto you."

	AT the meeting of the directors o[-] the silk
association, at President Taylor's office, Thurs-
day, Jan. 15, Mrs. Zina D. Young resigned her
position as President of the former association,
and Hon. Wm. Jennings was elected President,
Miss E. R. Snow Vice President, Mr. A. M.
Musser, Secretary, and Mr. P. A. Schettler
Treasurer. Speeches complimentary to those
who had heretofore worked so earnest'y in this
matter were made, and it was the se[-]se of the
meeting that the industry be pushed [--] a suc-
cessful issue.

	THE Relief Society Party and Re-union in
the Twelfth Wsrd, on Friday evening, Jan. 23,
was really a very pleasant one indeed. Speeches
were made in the afternoon by Mrs. M. I.
Horne, Pres. John Taylor; Bishop Pyper and
others; there were also songs and recitations.
The little girls of the Primary Association,
under the direction of Mrs. E. S. Clawson,
sang some choice selections very sweetly.


[Column 1]
The supper was as sumptuous as the entertain-
ment was agreeable, and everybody seemed to
be in a happy mood. The evening entertain-
ment, which consisted of music and dancing,
was opened with prayer by Elder Joseph E.
Taylor. Pres. John Taylor and Mrs. Sophia
W. Taylor led out in the first dance, and the
evening was passed in pleasant pastime and
social conversation. The party was indeed a
complete success.

	IN this city, Thursday, Jan. 15, 1880, Miss
Libbie Beatie and Heber M. Wells were united
in marriage, Pres. D. H. Wells, the father of
the bridegroom, performing the ceremony. A
reception was given in the evening at the resi-
dence of the bride's parents, which was nu-
merously attended by relatives and friends.
The repast served on the occasion was profuse
with delicacies and most tempting to the Epi-
curean. The presents were elegant and appro-
priate, and judging from the number of them,
one would conclude they had at least the "dear
five hundred friends." May their happiness be
as complete as the present bright prospect in-
dicates, and all the sweet domestic joys that
wait upon the pure and good be the dower
which Providence shall send to crown their
union. We wish them all the blessings of long
life, peace, and that experience which will be
most fruitful a harvest of good deeds.

	ON Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1880, in this city,
Miss Minnie Horne and W. D. James, Esq.,
were united in marriage, Pres. D. H. Wells
performing the ceremony. There was a pleas-
ant party of friends at the residence of the
bride's parents, to celebrate the happy occasion.
The sumptuous dinner was graced with the
presence of Pres. John Taylor and Mrs. Maggie
Taylor, Pres. D. H. Wells and Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Bishop R. T. Burton and ladies, Wm.
Jennings, Esq., and wife, and many other
ladies and gentlemen, relatives and friends of
both families. Many elegant and exquisite
presents were received by the happy pair. In
the evening a large number of young people
assembled, and wedding cake, with choice re-
freshments were served in the most hospitable
manner.
	We extend our sincere congratulations to the
newly wedded pair, and trust their lives may
be as happy as is consistent with earth's ex-
periences, that there may be more sunshine
than shadow upon their onward path; and
whatever betide them, that they be forever
firm in those principles which will lead them
to an eternal exaltation hereafter.

	THE Legislature now in session are pushing
on their work vigorously. The several com-
mittees are engaged almost constantly, when
not in session, in deliberation and consultation
over petitions, memorials, reports, and bills,
relating to changes in the Compiled Laws of
the Territory, &c. A bill for an act prescribing
fees for the Secretary of Utah Territory, after
having been slightly amended, passed both
House and Council without any discussion;
also a few other bills; but the ladies and the
people of Rich Co. have not been quite as for-
tunate in this respect. The merits and demer-
its of both these bills have been warmly dis-
cussed in the House. We understand the bill
to change the boundaries of Rich County is
lost. Hon. John Murdock, on Monday, Jan.
26, presented a petition from Beaver, signed by
Louisa B. Pratt and three hundred and eighty-
two others, asking for the removal of the po-
litical disabilities of women, and making them
eligible to office. The petition will be found
in another column. We understand, too, that
there is a petition in the possession of a Mem-
ber of the Council from the ladies of Juab Co.,

[Column 2]
which has not yet been presented. The Hon.
Member in the House from said County says,
"The petition has mostly been signed through
newspaper advocacy." Let the people of Utah
congratulate themselves on having such educa-
tional newspapers.


