SARAH ANN RAWLE Cor. Sec'y.
LYDIA RICH, Prest.

	The third Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Sanpete Stake, was held
at Ephraim City, Nov. 17.
	The congregation was called to order by
the President Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde. The
services of singing and prayer were offered.
The Stake Report showed that, in this stake
there are 165, teachers, 1,542 members. 1,
748. total of officers and members. And
that they have donated to the poor, during
the last quarter, cash, $107, 75; property,
158,14; to emigration, 148,25; temple, cash,
52,31: property, 152,80; have on hand at
present, 3,415; bush. and 39 lbs. wheat.
After the reading of the reports, the Pres-
idents of the Primary Associations,reported
verbally their respective societies as being
in a prosperous condition. The Presidents
of the Relief Societies also reported their
several societies as being in a prosperous
condition, the members unite and are am-
bitious in working for the advancement of
these organizations, and every laudable
cause. President Hyde addressed the con-
gregation upon the subject of training
children. Urged the mothers to watch
and take care of them. Cautioned the
saints against getting into thedark. Told
them to cultivate charity. Said the Saints
had had a glorious time during conference.
President Canute Petersen, most heartily
approved of the reports given by the sisters
of their societies, and of the proceedings of
the Conference.
	Said the greatest thing for the saints to
do was to be faithful in serving the Lord
and not be found serving Satan.
	A number of sisters and brethren made
brief remarks upon different subjects.
	Singing Benediction, Adjourned until
Feb. 10, 1880.
			FANNY KOFFORD Cor. Sec,y.

	The Ladies belonging to Beaver Stake of 
Zion should have their share of credit for
the interest they manifest in performing
the various duties pertaining to their de-
partment.
	A county organization of ladies has taken

[Column 2]
place since giving in our last report. Sis-
ter Houd occupying the position of Pres-
ident. A reorganization of the Ladies
Relief Society of Beaver has also been ef-
fected. Sister Delilah Cox now being the
President with Sisters Dell and Shepherd
for Counselors.
	The Sister of Beaver visited Minersville
during the last Quarterly Conference and
reported all doing well in that vicinity.
			FLORA S. HILL. Cor. Sec'y.

	On the 22nd, of Nov. Sisters E. R. Snow
and M. I. Horne visited Lehi and held two
meetings. In the morning they gave very
good counsel and instructions to the sisters
encouraging them in their duties as wives
and mothers in Israel, exhorted them to
attend to their spiritual wellfare that they
might gain an eternal glory, admonished
the young sisters to attend their Associa-
tions and not to associate with men whose
habits were not good, spoke of the First
Branch of the Relief Society being organ-
ized under the direction, of the Prophet
Joseph Smith and what a benefit the organ
ization had proved to this people.
	The Bishop and many of the brethren
being present enjoyed it very much, and
indeed, it was a very pleasant time and
will long be remembered by the sisters of
Lehi.
	In the ofternoon the Sisters met the
children of the Primary Associations, in-
structing them and asking questions on
Church and Bible History which were
aaswered quite promptly.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT.
		Respectfully,
			REBECCA STANDRING, Pres.,
