AGITATION IS EDUCATIONAL.

	It was altogether unexpected to the ladies
who petitioned the Legislature to pass some
enactment this session which would remove
the political disabilities of women, and make
them eligible to office, to have created such an
agitation. They thought the subject was bet-
ter understood—were not aware so many old
traditions still clung to the people of this pro-
gressive age. But after all, it is educational—
the people are beginning to think upon the
woman question; it has assumed another phase
now. Some thought, no doubt, it was at a
dead stand still; women could vote, and there
it was to stop forever. But lo, and behold!
voting is not quite enough; and after having
given them a piece of a loaf, they naturally
want more. Not by sitting down silently and
waiting for it is one likely to get what is want-
ed. "If it is not worth asking for it is not worth
having." I know some say, "You didn't peti-
tion for the suffrage, and it was given you
without any intercession whatever." Well,
if the women of Utah didn't ask for the bal-
lot, other women did; if they hadn't, the sis-
ters here might have waited long enough.
	"The majority don't want it," is another ex-
cuse. Ah, we would like to be sure of that
fact; but even if they do not, there are some
who do, and the others would, if they had be-
come more enlightened upon the subject. Per-
haps it would have been better to have sent in
individual petitions, as the women are doing
all over the States, here and there, beseeching
Congress to prohibit the several States from
disfranchising United States citizens on account
of sex. However, it is quite possible this will
create more of anagitation than that would, and
those who have stepped forward in this matter
have done so to promote good; and if there is
need to stop and weigh the question, all right
—when people begin to study a theme in ear-
nest they generally improve, and gradually
light dawns upon them, and the mists disperse
and shadows are dispelled. We trust it will be
so with this; it looms up darkly now, and
seems a terrific, huge bugbear; but examine it
carefully, it will not be half so forbidding.
	Positively one would think, to hear some
people talk, that the ranks of wives and moth-
ers were going to be deserted; that the homes
were going to be desolated, and every pretty,
dainty little creature would want an office, in-
stead of a home. How ridiculous this all is!
Women who have opinions of their own are
able to counsel wiih their husbands in regard
to the home and the children. They carry
their own burdens along more easily than the
innocent, unsophisticated, frivolous, who de-
pend solely upon some one else's judgment all
their life long. They tell us women will have

[Column 2]
to dispense with the gallantry of the opposite
sex when they enter the lists with men. Then
man will have to dispense with the attentions
and caresses of woman which make life so
pleasant. If men cannot afford to be gallant
to women who are their equals in intellect and
education, then women will be careful not to
throw away their sweet attractions, and there
will, perhaps, be more fair play than there is
nowadays, and it will not be such a one-sided
affair as it has been.

	After all, women are very generous creatures,
and it is very likely they would prefer nomi-
nating some man for office, rather than a wo-
man,because "that same" would be very experi-
mental; and really it is very strange that men
should object to the dear creatures acting in
public offices with them. We never have
heard of men objecting to women going out
to wash, unless it was a Chinamen, who was
afraid of losing his custom; usually, too, men
are quite willing women should get their living
by sewing, at starvation prices; these are le-
gitimate spheres for women to occupy; and
yet, methinks many a woman has more men-
tal ability than physical strength, and those
who are so fond of quoting Scripture to prove
man's authority over woman, seem to forget
that the Lord said to man, and not to woman,
by the sweat of his brow should he eat, &c.
But women do work nevertheless, and "bring
forth in sorrow" too, but are not permitted the
opportunity of regulating their own wages in
the least. How often is it said by those who
employ help, "we get women's help, because
they work cheaper." Indeed! Do they do the
work as well? O yes; only you know women
can't command such salaries as men can. Now
we may not be very wise, but really it seems
all this is wrong. It is the system of oppress-
ing the weaker by those in power. And yet
men will tell you they represent women, and
do them more ample justice than they would
do each other. Then if women had influence
they might be more generous to men. No
doubt they would be. The very fact of being
politically equal would have a most concilia-
tory and happifying effect.
	But to come back to Utah and the question
as it stands here. We are told by some that to
ask for more political freedom than the sisters
now enjoy is aggressive; we answer, if it is ag-
gressive it is also progressive; it indicates pro-
gression, and we are anxious to see women ad-
vance. A young Brahmin asked, "Why is it
that India has stood still for the last five hun-
dred years, while all Europe and her colonies
have made such wonderful progress, both in
the arts and sciences?" The reply was, "Your
women are children, even to old age; the wo-
men of the Occident are learning to keep step
with the men in scientific pursuits." If such
is the result of partial freedom to women, then
when larger opportunities and incentives are
given for culture, there will be a higher degree
of attainment. Woman stands not alone; what-
ever privilege is given her, man is benefitted
and ennobled by. If the mothers can reach
the realization of the highest ideals, then will
the vantage ground of progress be gained. It
must be through an enlightened motherhood
that the world will become better. Women
must become more capable, and the work will
necessarily be more practical than theoretical;
in fact, this is a practical age. How much, for
instance would the women of this Territory
have learned about the ballot in ten years, if
they had not had the practical experience?
One has only to examine into the educational
advantages of the sexes, to see how unequally
rights and privileges are distributed. In this
Territory no woman, however well qualified,

[Column 3]
can be a Superintendent, or even a trustee, o
common schools; and yet, many men will ad-
mit there are ladies here specially well quali-
fied and adapted to these positions. Is there
any good or wholesome reason why the law
should not be amended to admit of it? As we
understand Republican government, its essen-
tial elements are opposed to all discrimination
among citizens (and women who have the bal-
lot are citizens), to feudalism,orders of nobility,
and privileged classes. But here there is dis
crimination among citizens. Well, the ques-
tion is now before the people, and it is bringing
out their thoughts and feelings on the subject.
But the Latter-day Saints should not be gov-
erned by feelings, but by principle. We are
very glad the subject has been broached, and
perfectly willing to bear our share of the blame,
the ridicule, or the sneers, for the sake of the
good it will do towards enlightening the peo-
ple.		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


