BY M. J. T.

	My young sisters—You are supposed to
meet together for the purpose of mutual
improvement, that being the name of the
organization by which you are bound. What
is the meaning of the term as applied to
this organization? It is that our young
people shall improve their minds and mor-
als, by learning that which is refining and
purifying, both in a religious and moral
point of view, that they may raise them-
selves to a standard of perfection that will
mark them as women of intelligence and
politeness. Because we are Mormons shall
we be held up by the intelligent portion of
the world as samples of low breeding and
ignorance? We may say we are God’s
chosen people, and believing in the faith
and doctrines of our religion; we despise
and look down upon the practices of the
world, which comprise so much that is dis-
graceful and degrading. Are we altogether
juitified in taking that view of the case?
In what are we superior? How many un-
derstand, or care to investigate the princi-
ples they profess to hold sacred. Setting
religion aside, the fact really is that polite-
ness and refinement indicate purity and in-
telligent intercourse, and there is much
honor and uprightness outside as well as in
Utah, while there is much ignorance and
folly within its bounds as also elsewhere.
	In our social intercourse we must needs
follow after the pattern of politeness as giv-
en by the world, unless we can erect a
higher and purer standard of our own.
Whatever position we may take, let us
learn that which is ennobling and exalting,
and cultivate that which is pure and good,
instead of taking a course that is low and
immoral.
	Rudeness of speech and action are de-
moralizing in their tendencies. Coarse or

[Column 2]
vulgar language leads to coarse and vulgar
thoughts and actions, and their influence is
low and immoral. Good manners is the
corner-stone of morality, and should be cul-
tivated, not alone in public, but in private
intercourse. Learn to respect yourselves,
and those with whom you associate will
respect you.
	Young ladies should be modest and re-
tiring, innocent and refined in their behav-
ior, deporting themselves with dignity and
grace, and they will win the esteem of
those who know them. Cultivate their
minds and fill them with intelligence, that
they may come forward in due time to as-
sist in bearing off the kingdom, for on them
will devolve a great work, and they should
be able to do it with dignity and honor.
They should be ladies in every sense of the
word. Pure, honest, virtuous and refined.
No lady will act in a rude and undignified
manner. She will never let her voice be
heard speaking or laughing loudly in public
places. In walking the streets, either by
night or day, her deportment will be quiet
and civil, never attracting attention by
noisy or rude behavior. If she meet a gen-
tlemen on the street she will not call out to
him, lest she might be mistaken in the per-
son; or if not so mistaken, her course might
be misconstrued by the gentleman, or other
parties, and she be liable to criticism. * *
She should be kind and respectful to those
older than herself. A lady is not expected
to talk slang, and profane or vulgar lan-
guage never passes her lips. It is some-
where said, “as a man thinketh so is he.”
This is equally true of woman. How are
we to know what she thinks, except by her
conversation and deportment. If that be
low and vulgar, we must judge her to be
essentially low and vulgar. If such be the
case with the mothers, what can we expect
of the children. Prepare yourselves, then,
to be mothers in Israel—the highest and
noblest position a woman can hold—to train
the minds and guide the footsteps of the
rising generation. That is woman’s mis-
sion, and she should prepare to fill it with
honor, that “her children may rise up and
call her blessed.”


