THE LOVED AND LOST.

The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
	Because we miss them from our onward road?
God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crost,
Looked on us all, and loving them the most,
	Straightway relieved them from life's weary load.

They are not lost; they are within the door
	That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
	And God Himself, their Lord, and Judge and King

And this we call a loss! O selfish sorrow
	Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith;
Let us look round, argument to borrow
Why we in patience should await the morrow
	That surely must succeed this night of death,

Aye, look upon this dreary desert path,
	The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn;
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath.
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
	They have escaped from these; and lo! we mourn.

Ask the poor sailor, when the wreck is done,
	Who with his treasures strove the shore to reach,
While with the raging waves he battled on,
was it not joy, where every joy seemed gone,
	To see his loved ones landed on the beach?

A poor wayfarer, leading by the hand
	A little child, had halted by the well
To wash from off her feet the clinging sand,
And tell the tired boy of that bright land
	Where,this long journey past, they longed to dwell,

When lo! the Lord, who many mansions had,
	Drew near and looked upon the suffering twain,
Then pitying spake, "Give me the little lad;
In strength renewed, and glorious beauty clad,
	I'll bring him with me when I come agrin."

Did she make answer selfishly and wrong—
	"Nay, but the woes I feel he, too, must share!"
Or rather, bursting into grateful song,
She went her way rejoicing, and made strong
	To struggle on, since he was freed from care.

We will do likewise, death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
But there's an inward, spiritual speech
	That greets us still, though mortal tongues be dust

It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again.

[handwritten on right margin] E. B. W.


[Column 1]
