NOTES AND NEWS

	TELEGRAM from Washington Jan. 28,
states that the nomination of Eli H.
Murray of Kentucky for Governer of Utah
had been confirmed by the United States
Senate.

	GOVERNOR Long, of Massachusetts, An-
dress, of Connecticut, and Cornell, of New
York, are all reported as having made fa-
vorable mention of Woman Suffrage in
their respective messages.

	THE Iowa Woman Suffragists are winning
the support of the "State Register" and
other influential papers in that State. They
have good ground to expect favorable action
from their Legislature.

	A MEETING of the New York Woman
Suffrage Society was held in January, at
the headquarters of the Society, No. 103
West Forty-eighth street. Mrs. L. D.
Blake made a brief address, in which she
alluded to the passage in Governor Cornell's
message favorable to the election of women
to school offices. This, she said, was a vic-
tory for the Society, and a reward for its
patient efforts during the last five years. It
was also gratifying that the Hon. Thomas
Ecclesine, who had so strongly opposed
Woman Suffrage during his last term of
office, had been defeated, in part through
the Society's efforts, in the last campaign.
A resolution was passed thanking Governor
Cornell for keeping the pledge he had made
privately regarding the school question.
J. N. H, Wilcox reported that a bill had
already been drawn up at Albany author-
izing women to hold offices in the schools.
It had been placed in the hands of General
Husted, who would present it before the
Legislature at an early day. It was de-
cided to call upon Francis A. Walker, who
is at the head of the Census Bureau at
Washington, for information regarding
what course should be pursued to make
women eligible to the office of census-taker
under the service of the Bureau.	*	*	*
A paper discussing the rights of women
was read by Charles Peasey; another paper
relating to the injustice of the present laws
governing the Probate Court was read by
Mrs. J. W. Stowe, formerly of California.


