[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | February | Issue: 7 | Title: MOTHER’S WORK | Author: CELIA A. SMITH,]

		MOTHER’S WORK
		MARICOPA STAKE.
Lesson 1—Life and its Responsibilities.
	Why are we here? We must someday
give an account for the way in which our
lives have been spent,

Lesson 2—Have an Aim in Life—that of
		making happy homes.
	Good cooking an important factor.
Good health another. Politeness and
courtesy at home are also important.
Count your blessings, but not your trials,
and you will find much cause for happi-
ness.

Lesson 3—Home, the Child’s World.
	Make the home beautiful. Encourage
family singing. Provide music of some
kind. Encourage the making of beauti-
ful things at home. Get tool boxes for
the boys, and make their room neat and
pretty as well as the girls’ rooms. They
will appreciate it and help to keep it nice.

Lesson 4—Nature Studies.
	Give each child a little plot of ground,
however small, and set of little garden
tools. Teach them to take proper care
of the tools, and to have a place to keep
them. Show them how to prepare a suit-
able seed bed and then teach them about
the germination and growth of the baby
plants, baby birds, etc.

Lesson 5—Our Children are Precious
		Jewels.
	A child’s right to be well born. The
duty of parents to their unborn children.
Pre-natal influencs. Loving them before-
hand. You can sometimes tell which was
an unwelcome child by its face. Too
many are “born tired.”

Lesson 6—Training our children.
	Be truthful and honest with them, al-
ways. Never deceive them to secure
obedience, or they will soon lose their
trust in you. Instruct them early as to
the sacredness of life, and the purposes
of God in allowing us to be fathers and
mothers. Make yourself a companion
and confident of your children, or they
will seek knowledge from impure sources.

Lesson 7—Story Telling a Means of Edu-
		cation.
	Overcome evil tendencies, not by pun-
ishment, but by continually directing the
child’s mind to something higher and no-
bler. As much as possible, let your sto-

[Column 2]
ries be of noble deeds and actions, and of
something that will show the folly of
wrong habits, such as selfishness, idle-
ness, wastefulness, etc.

Lesson 8—Preparation for the Future.
	We owe a duty to our children’s future
mates. Teach the boys to put their cloth-
ing, books, etc., away neatly, and thus
they will learn to be helpful, rather than
hindrances not only to their mother, but
to their wife when they get one; and
teach both boys and girls to use reason,
judgment and common sense in all things.

Lesson 9—Our Bodies are Temples of the
		Living God.
	Teach the children this, that they may
learn to keep them clean and pure. Teach
them the value of deep breathing, fresh
air and exercise, and of standing straight.
We are made in the image of God, and
should keep that image as perfect in form
as possible.

Lesson 10—The Sin of Gossip.
	“Judge not, that ye be not judged; for
with what judgment ye judge ye shall be
judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) Be not hasty in
condemning others. Speak of their good
qualities rather than their misdeeds. We
might do things that would be just as
wrong if we were placed in similar cir-
cumstances. Have some subject for dis-
cussion at sewing bees and work meet-
ings.

Lesson 11—Parable of the Ten Talents
		(Matt. 25: 14-30.)
	What talent do I possess, and do I cul-
tivate it? Patience, faith, cheerfulness,
the power to instruct or comfort others,
or anything that helps to make life better
and brighter is talent which should be
cultivated.

Lesson 12—Place of Worship is Holy.
	Teach the children to be quiet and or-
derly in the house of God. It is wrong to
let the little ones run and play in the
aisles, and for the older ones to whisper
and make a disturbance during services.
These things are displeasing to our heav-
enly Father and an offense to our friends
who visit our places of worship.
			CELIA A. SMITH,
		Cor. Secy. of Stake R. S.


