VOL. 26. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1898. [--] NO. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Origin of Some of our Popular Songs—Mrs. M.
C. Woods. Re ief Society in Los Angelos—A. S.
Polynesia—Emma Jenson. R S. and P A. Re-
ports. In Memoriam. Egypt—Louide.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman’s Memorial Building.
A Poet’s Evening. Edito ial Notes.
	POETRY:—Pilgrims of the West—Arethusa. A
Song—Lucy A. Clark.


[Column 1]
PILGRIMS OF THE WEST.

THERE are tunes that fit to the player’s lyre
	As airs seem born for the leaf-stringed trees;
There are themes that thrill to the poet’s fire
	As a flame leaps high on the desert breeze.
And of all of the themes that the land has known—
	To make the soul of a bard aspire—
	Of faith, toil, sacrifice—none are higher
Than a tale that our far west calls her own.

It had its source in a faith whose test
	Outrivals those idylls of orient lore—
Mohammed’s mission, the Buddh’s great quest—
	And the thousand myths of Hellene’s shore;—
A vision won by a boy’s prayer,
	A wondrous tale by an angel told
	Of an ancient mound and its plates of gold,
And a new world creed that their leaves should
	bear.

And from that strange fountain a slender stream
	Ran out and grew to a rolling flood,
For thousands thrilled at the Prophet’s dream,
	And signed their faith with a seal of blood;
And, at last to the hosts of his gathered flock
	A final edict of exile came—
	A word that the unknown west should claim
As the mould of her life’s foundation rock.

They left fair homes at a stern fate’s need
	And turned their steps to the setting sun
Where freedom sought for a faith-held creed,
	In the untrod wilderness might be won.
Forbade of the haunts of men they drew
	To the desert’s ominous, empty heart,
	And the halo of martyr,s and Spartan’s part
The wastes of the lonely prairies knew.

For terrors dwelt in the desert’s hush—
	Treacherous Indians ambuscade,
The herded buffalo’s tempest-rush,
	The prairie famine of fire’s raid;
And the line of their weary wagon tread
	Haunted with hardships for unused feet—
	Privation, piercings of sun and sleet,
Was sown with graves of the wayside dead.

Suns waned, and the plodding pilgrims saw
	The haze of the fair horizon line
On the speckless edge of the desert draw
	No hint of the promised Zion’s sign.
The noons spread wide on the trailless sands,
	The blue nights paced with their golden train
	O’er the Sister-vast of a spaceless plain
That the red dawns circled with widening bands.
 
Yet at last the ridges of snow-rimmed hills
	Filed their ranks to the eye-strained view,
And out from the edge of their upland sills
	The peak-walled curve of a valley drew
Its sunburned, sage-choked, ample space
	To aline stretched wide at its western rim—
	Radiant, crisping-a sea’s blue brim—
Cupped in the colorless prairie-face.

[Column 2]
And they hailed the spot as the land foretold
	Where the lofty tree of their faith should grow,
And pitched their tents on the desert mould
	In the eastward bend of the salt sea’s bow.
And their faith—hard nurtured by sorest b[-]ight—
	Cold, danger, famine, the cricket-curse—
	As a child by a kind, harsh seeming nurse—
Brought on the land to its day of light.

A fair, rose-gardened city grew 
	On the barren shores of the hermit sea;
And the world’s far marts erstwhile close drew
	With Trade’s white banner of amity.
For steam crushed out wit[-] its geni-stride
	The vaunted leagues of the trackles plains
	That had taunted their crawling wagon trains—
And peace drew in with the travel tide.

And today through the length of the hope thrilled
		land,
	After a half a hundred years—
The foes of a buried past strike hard,
	O'er a strong bridged chasm of hates and fears
And join in the joy of a rivalled zest
	—Barred not of race, of color or creed—
	To render honor—a fitting meed
To the Pioneers of the inland west.

That dawning of peace with its hope thrilled song
	Is a pæan hymned to the long past years—
To the dead and the living—the brave and strong
	Who conquered the desert—the Pioneers 1
And we pledge that day when the honored name
	Of the State they nurtured through grace dvine
	By the right of her thousand gifts shall shine,
A soverei[-]n light of the Nation’s fame?
						“ARETHUSA”


[Column 1]
ORIGIN OF SOME OF OUR POPULAR
SONGS.

M. C. WOODS.
	"OLD songs are best; how sweet to hear
	The strains to home and memory dear"

	The story of some of our old songs may
give them a new and greater interest and
bring us into more sympathetic feeling with
the authors.
	I have selected a few from among the
many which have sung their way into the
hearts of the people; for many of them are
known the wide world over. Some of the
authors have won immortal fame through a
moment of inspiration; while others have
given a lifetime of thought and suffering to
the compositions that have brought them
fame and honor.
	As an example of the inspiration of the
hour we have the "Battle Hymn of the
Republic" by Julia Ward Howe, who, I
once heard say, "felt that she was not re-
sponsible for the song, for it was born
under the inspiration of the time and hour."
	This famous hymn was written in Dec-
ember 1861, in the city of Washington.
One night after a day of great excitement
when she had been listening to the strains
of martial music all day and watching the
soldiers marching by, she went to bed with
the strains of "John Brown's Body" ring-
ing in her ears; she could not sleep and
found herself without effort putting new
words to the tune: line by line the poem

[Column 2]
evolved itself. She must have been a very
orderly woman, for rising quickly she found
paper and pencil and in the absolute dark-
ness of the night put the words on paper
without seeing what she wrote; and this
was the birth of "Mine eyes have seen the
glory of the coming of the Lord."
	None of our national airs are more dra-
matic in their origin than "The Star Spang-
led Banner" which it has always seemed to
me should be our national Hymn. At the
time of the attack on Fort McHenry, made
by Admiral Cockburn Sep. 18. 1814,
Francis Scott Wey was held a prisoner in
a little boat moored to the commanders
vessel; through the whole day and night
exposed to the fire from the shore, he
watched the flag on the Fort, and at break
of day on the 14th he saw it waving, "our
flag was still there." Then taking an old
letter from his pocket and using a barrel
head for a table, he wrote at fever heat the
poem which he called "The Defense of
Fort McHenry." It was set to the music
of "Anacreon in Heaven," an opera in two
acts by Cherubine. In 1832 on a dismal
day in February while looking over some
German music books, Dr. Samuel F. Smith
found a tune which from its simple and
natural movement seemed particularly suited
to childrens' voices, a subject he was then
greatly interested in. He noted it as hav-
ing a patriotic swing and felt inspired on
the spot to write a patriotic hymn of his
own, which he did in just half an hour's
time. He did not know at the time that
the tune he adapted to his hymn "My
Country 'tis of Thee," was the national
British anthem "God save the Queen."
	"God save the King" (or Queen) has,
by the way, been the subject of endless
discussion. It is said by some, in the be-
ginning to have been a Jacobite song re-
ferring to James II., "The King over the
water." The words "Send him victorious,"
seem to imply an absent king not the one
already in England but one far away, to
whom the singers were loyal in his evil
fortune. It is believed to have been written
by Henry Corey, who lived in six reigns
and who also wrote "Sally in our Alley."
	The French national anthem, "La Mar-
sellaise," which is ringing full of patriotic
frenzy, was written words and music in a
single night and won for its author literary
immortality. The author who was Rouget
de Lisle, a young officer of engineers at
Strasburg in 1792, was asked by Deitrick
the mayor of the town to write a martial
song to be sung on the departure of six
hundred volunteers to the army of the
Rhine. Lisle composed the song that night
in a fervor of feeling, music and words at
the same time; sometimes the words came
first, sometimes the music; but he wrote
nothing. In the morning the chant came
to him like the echo of a dream and he
wrote it down, words and music and car-
ried to it Deitrick. In an hour the listening
assemblage knew the song of the nation
was born.
	Many nations claim "Yankee Doodle,"—
In the time of Charles I., it was known in


[Column 1]
England as “Nankee Doodle,”—and the
Hollanders had the same air to a song called
“Yanker Dudel,”—the French claim it as
an old vintage song,—the Hungarians as a
native air,—the Biscayans as the ancient
music of the native sword dance. In June
1755, the regimental surgeon under Brad-
dock thought he’d play a joke on the rag-
ged, tattered Continentals, by palming off
this song of the time of Cromwell, on the
colonial soldiers as the latest martial music;
the tune at once caught the popular fancy;
but later the tables were turned and the
joke was on the other side, when the Conti-
nental band played “Yankee Doodle” as
Lord, Cornwallis marched out, after sur-
rendering his army, his sword and the
English colonies to the “Yankees.”
	In 1798 when Congress in session at
Philadelphia was debating what attitude to
assume in the struggle between France and
England, party feeling was intense and the
very air was at white heat with enthusiastic
patriotism. A young man who was a
singer at the Theatre in Philadelphia came
to his friend Joseph Hopkinson and begged
him to write a patriotic song adapted to the,
then, very popular music of the “President’s
March,” saying he knew it would save the
day. The following afternoon the song
“Hail Columbia” was ready and was ar-
ranged by a member of the orchestra to the
music known then as the “President’s
March.” It was duly and well advertised,
the house was packed and the song was en-
cored amid the wildest enthusiasm. It has
since been adopted by common consent as
the national anthem of America.
	Among the war songs none is a greater
favorite than “Marching Through Georgia.”
It is often called, and appropriately I think,
the “American Marseillaise.” It was 
written in 1865, by Henry C. Work, of
Chicago, a printer and remarkable song
writer: he often composed his songs at the
case as he set up type; and if he had access
to music type, the music also, the piece
seldom needing more than one or two alter-
ations. “Marching Through Georgia”
was written thus.
	Without doubt; “The Girl I Left Behind
Me” is of Irish origin. Neither author nor
date are certain but it is supposed to have
been written in 1758. It is the tune play-
ed by every man-of-war weighing anchor,
and regiments leaving a town where they
have been stationed always give this gal-
lant parting to the ladies. It is said to be
the most popular air among all soldiers and
sailors.
	But the marching song of the Nation is
“John Brown’s Body,” and it has a pecu-
liar history. When in 1859 John Brown
was hanged in Charlestown, Virginia, the
boys of Boston paraded the streets sing-
ing a monotonous chant, the burden of
which was “Go tell John Anderson John
Brown’s dead.” A year or so later Thane
Miller heard the melody of “John Brown’s
Body” in a colored church in Charleston,
South Carolina, and introduced it at a Y.
M. C. Association convention at Albany,
New York. James E. Greenwich, an
organist of Charleston Mass., fitted this
air to the first stanza of the present song.
It became a popular favorite and Charles S.
Hall wrote additional verses. Walter
Kittedge was drafted into the army in
1862, and while preparing to go to the
front he wrote the words and music in a few
minutes. Hundreds of thousands of copies
of this song have been sold.

[Column 2]
“Old songs are best,” writes one of the
poets: be that as it may, we know some old
songs are ever beautiful and bonny; and
“Annie Laurie” was ever and always will
be a favorite. It was a love poem address-
ed by William Douglas to the eldest daugh- 
ter of Sir Robert Laurie of Maxwelton; but
unfortunately this sweet poem so full of
delicate flattery failed to touch Miss Annie’s
heart, for she later became Mrs. Ferguson.
The music to which it is now sung is the
composition of Lady John Scott. 
	Robert Burns wrote only the second and
third stanzas of “Auld Lang Syne,”
though he retouched them all, there were
three earlier versions. The air to which it
is sung is an old Lowland melody, and
was selected by Mr. George Thompson.
	‘Comin’ thro’ the Rye” is another old
Scotch song retouched by Burns; it refers to
the fording of the little river Rye, when it
was the custom of the lads to exact a toll of
kisses from the lasses they met on the step-
ping stones in crossing over.
	For fifty years the authorship of “Old
Robin Gray” was a secret limited to the family
the one who wrote it, Lady Anna Lindsay,
she wrote ballads to wile away weary, and
lonely hours. Robin was a herdsman on
her father’s estate.
	“Rory O’ More” was written by Samuel
Lover as a protest against the coarseness of
the ordinary Irish song, full of hurra’s and
whack fol de rols. At a social gathering he
expressed his disgust and was asked taunt-
ingly if he could do better. “Rory
O’More” was the answer to the taunt.
	Perhaps in the whole range of songs, old
and new, none is more popular than that
sweet and plaintive air “Robin Adair.”
The real Robin in whose honor the words
were written was a native of County Wick-
low, Ireland, and a descendant of the Des-
mond Fitz Geralds, the mighty Geraldines.
His father was made a Knight Baronet after
the battle of Boyne. While Robin (or
Robert) was studying medicine in Dublin
he got in some scrape and having little
money and few friends, he thought the best
way out of it was to go away; so he set out
on foot for London. The roads were in a
terrible condition and he had not gone far
when he came upon a carriage which had
been overturned. The owner and occupant
of the vehicle, a fashionable young lady,
was slightly hurt and greatly alarmed.
Adair at once offered his services, attended
the lady’s hurt, helped to right the carriage
and was invited by the lady to take a seat
in it, as her protector. Arriving in Lon-
don she presented him with a fee of a hun-
dred guineas and invited him to come after
to the house. Robin Adair was wise and
energetic; he studied assiduously and soon
with the assistance of his patroness acquired
a good practice at the best end of town. He
was frequently at dances given by this
young lady and others, and one night at a
party found that his partner was the second
daughter of the Earl of Albermarle, Lady
Caroline Keppel. It was a case of mutual
love at first sight. Her kinsfolk were
stupified with amazement and she was
soon sent abroad to be cured of her folly,
but without avail, and she fell very ill.
About 1750 when at Bath for her health,
she wrote the verses now so popular and
adapted them to the air of “Eileen Aroon,”
which doubtless Robin had often sung to
her. At last the separation from Adair and
the importunities of her relatives caused
her to become so ill that the doctors des-

[Column 3]
paired of her life and finally the union of
the pair was consented to. 
	Shortly after their marriage Adair was
appointed Inspector General of Military
Hospitals, and later made Surgeon General,
Kings’ Sergeant and Surgeon of Chelsea
Hospital. Good fortune did not spoil him
and he worked hard at his profession. He
treated the Duke of Glouscester so success-
fully that the king offered to make him a
Baronet, but he declined the honor. Adored
and admired by all who knew him he lived
to the age of eighty and died lamented
most deeply. Lady Caroline died rather
early and her husband, except when ob-
liged on state occasions to put on a court
costume, wore mourning for his love till he
died in 1790. He was buried with her in
the family vault. Their only son, the
Right Hon. Sir Robert Adair, had a bril-
liant career as a diplomatist and died in
1855.
	“The Last Rose of Summer” one of the
peerless Patti’s favorite songs, was among
the most popular of Thomas Moore’s Irish
melodies. The air, which is a very old one,
formerly known as the “Groves of Blarney”
is found in the collection of the music of
Ireland two hundred years old.
	“Home Sweet Home,” written by John
Howard Payne an American and a homeless
exile and wanderer, brought the prima
donna who first sung it a rich husband,
the publisher of the song ten thousand dol-
lars and the author fame only. In 1823,
Charles Kemble bought from Payne a num-
ber of plays and among them one entitled
“Clari, the Maid of Milan.” In extreme
poverty in an attic in Paris, Payne received
the order to change the play into an opera;
he did so and wrote for it this song, which
was an instant success.
	“Listen to the Mocking Bird” was writ-
ten for an old colored man named Dick
Milburn, who was blind and who used to
wander about the streets of Philadelphia
whistling like a mocking bird. It at once
caught the public ear and paid its publish-
ers one hundred thousand dollars. The
author was Septimus Winner who wrote
under his pen name of Alice Hawthorne.
	“Rock Me to Sleep Mother” was anoth-
er song which brought little to its author,
who received five dollars for the poem.
Published by the Saturday Evening Post it
brought the publishers many thousand dol-
lars and was claimed by a dozen persons,
but the real writer was Elizabeth Akers
(now Allen.) The song was written in
Italy.
	“Nancy Lee,” of world Wide popularity
was the work of an hour, words and music.
Frederick Weatherly while waiting for a
dilatory pupil wrote the song, words and
music. Its popularity was dimmed for a
time from the fact that the sailors of the
“Princess Alice” were singing the song
when the ship went down.
	“Then You’ll Remember Me” by Rolfe,
was written as a solo in the “Bohemian
Girl,” first presented in 1844.
	Mrs. Emma Willard an American teach-
er and author while on a ship coming from
Europe wrote “Rocked in the Cradle of the
Deep.” The air to which it is now sung
was composed by Joseph P. Knight, an
Englishman.
	Of the songs which reach the heart none
are more popular than “Ben Bolt” revived
by Du Maurler in his novel entitled “Tril-
by.” Dr. Thomas Dunn English wrote
the song for the New York Union at the


[Column 1]
request of N. P. Willis, its editor, who
wanted a sea song. The last line of the
poem was the only sea line Dr. English
could think of, "Ben Bolt of the salt sea
gale." The air adapted to the song by
Nelson Kareass was from an old German
melody.
	"Maid of Athens" is a tribute by Lord
Byron to the beautiful Theresa Macri,
daughter of the English vice-consul at
Athens. Twenty-four years after the song
was written an Englishman in Greece
sought out the "Maid of Athens" and
found her married, the mother of a large
family, no traces of her beauty left and in
abject want and poverty.
	Samuel Woodworth, a tramp printer,
coming into his house one day, tired and
thirsty, poured out a glass of water and
drank it eagerly saying to his wife "How
refreshing that is, but how much more re-
freshing would be a good long draught
from the old oaken bucket in my father's
well at home." His wife suggested that it
would be a good subject for a poem and
under the inspiration of the moment he
wrote "The Old Oaken Bucket."
	"The Angel's Whisper" by Samuel
Lover, is based on the old superstition in
Ireland that when a child smiles in its
sleep it is listening to the angels. The
music is an old Irish air, "Mary do ye
Fancy Me?"
	"Kathleen Mavourneen," usually spoken
of as having been written by Professor F.
Nicolks Cronch, was in reality the work of
Mrs. Louise M. Crawford, an English poet.
She was the collaborator of Proffessor
Cronch in the issue of several books of
songs; she writing the words, he t[--] music.
	It is one thing to sit in a theatre in New
York amid a scene of brilliant glitter and
fashion and hear the marvelous voice of
Patti rippling on the melody of "Way
Down upon de Swanee Ribber" and anoth
er to travel through the South till one
comes suddenly upon the clear, silent waters
of this stream. Just how this narrow little
sand-bottomed, blue-watered river, that
plays so small a part on the map of the
United States as does the Swanee, could
ever have become, all because of a mere
song, so famous in this wide world, seems
strange. "The old Folks at Home,"
sometimes called the "Swanee River" was
written by Stephen C. Foster and is a
great favorite the world over.
	"The Old Kentucky Home" also written
by Foster, is said to have been suggested to
him on hearing an old negro speak with
love and longing of his old home in Ken-
tucky. Several of Mr. Foster's songs were
composed on brown paper in the back room
of a little grocery store in New York.
"Massa's in de Cold. Cold Ground" is one of
his best compositions; he got the idea of
this song in Covington, Kentucky. He
heard a slave bewailing the fact that his
good old master was dead, and that now he
and other old slaves worn out in service,
would pass into the hands of less kindly
owners. Foster wrote both music and
words of his songs.
	Lord Arthur Hill had a romantic woo-
ing. His present wife acted in the capacity
of companion to his mother, the Marchion-
ess of Devonshire, and while she knew his
love for her and reciprocated, she felt a
marriage with her would be against his in-
terest and so without saying a word she sud-
denly disappeared. With many difficulties
he discovered her whereabouts and induced

[Column 2]
her to reconsider her determination. It was
this episode she embalmed in poetry in the
song "In the Gloaming."
	The composition of Sir Arthur Sulli-
van's beautiful song, "The Lost Chord," is
linked with sad memories in the life of the
composer. One night during the last ill-
ness of his beloved brother Frederick, when
for three weeks he had watched night and
day beside him, as the end drew near he
fell into a peaceful sleep. Sitting by his
bedside Sir Arthur chanced to come across
Adelaide Procter's poems which five years
before had greatly impressed him; as he
read them over again in the stillness of the
night their musical equivalent seemed to
sound in his ears. A stray sheet of paper
was at hand and he began to write. He
grew absorbed in it as the music grew and
determined to finish the song; even if it
proved worthless in the cold light of day it
would have helped to while away the hours
of watching. Thus was written "The
Lost Chord," perhaps the most successful
as certainly one of the most beautiful songs
of modern times. Its sale already has ex-
ceeded two hundred and fifty thousand
copies.
	Mr. Sankey's song "Ninety and Nine"
was named originally by Mr. Moody "The
Lost Sheep." The great Evangelists were
holding meetings in England one night
when Mr. Moody asked Mr. Sankey if he
had any song on the text of "The Good
Shepherd." Mr. Sankey had found in a
paper, while on the train some days pre-
viously, a poem signed anonymous, cut it
out and slipped it into his pocket. There
are golden moments in the evangelists
work, this was one of them. Something
seemed to say to him over and over, "Sing
the verses you found on the train." He
opened his note book, took out the scrap
and the second thought came, "How can I
sing a song without a tune?" meanwhile
the audience was waiting; he gave one
moment to silent supplication then struck a
full chord on the organ and began to sing.
He did not know what chords he played or
what notes he sang, he was thinking of
that poor, lone sheep and the Good Shep-
herd who searched through the night and
brought it home, and somehow he got
through the first verse, then he paused and
played some chords waiting to begin the
second. He knew that every heart in that
vast audience was with him and that every
breath was held in expectation, and the
thought came, "Can I remember the notes
to sing the same tune as the first verse?"
He concentrated his mind and began to sing
again, and so went through the five verses.
The audience sat as still as death till he
finished with the last glad shout.

	"And the angels echoed around the throne,
	Rejoice for the Lord brings back His own."

When it was all over Mr. Moody came
down from the pulpit and putting his hand
on his friend's shoulder said, "My dear friend
where did you get that song? I never heard
anything like it." "That," said Mr.
Sankey. "is the poem I read to you on
the train and you didn't listen to it."

"There is in souls a sympathy with sounds;
And as the mind is pitched the ear is pleased
With melting airs, or martial, brisk or grave,
Some chord in unison with what we hear
Is touched within us, and the heart replies."

	Read before the "Treble Clef," Wallace,
Ida., Dec. 24, 1897.


212	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY AT LOS ANGELOS.

	“THE poor you will always have with
you.” Perhaps that is what prompted the
sisters of the Relief Society to have a Fair.
The day was set for Monday, a week be-
fore Christmas; so accordingly an advertise-
ment was inserted in the morning papers
which read: Latter-day Saint’s Social and
Bazar to be held at 245 So. Spring St., Dec.
20, 1897. Delicious lunches served, pro-
gram rendered, some dancing engaged in.
Admission free.
	Promptly at 7 o'clock the doors were
opened. The large hall was very beauti-
fully decorated and showed the artistic skill
of those Saints and Elders who strove so
faithfully to make our first Fair a success.
	The hall was trimmed with pepper
boughs and smilax, Japanese lanterns were
suspended around the room, a profusion of
flowers and polen leaves lent their assistance
to present a pleasing appearance. One
corner of the hall was utilized by the sisters
of the Relief Society for the sale of their
many articles.
	’Twas indeed encouraging and gratifying
to the Elders to think that through the
labors of the missionaries such a promising
branch had been built up in this Calfornia
city.
	The beautifully arranged tables well filled
with fancy and useful articles all of which
was the work of the Saints in this branch
and donated for the benefit of the Fair,
showing the interest they manifest in the
work here. The evening’s exercises were
opened by a word of prayer from Elder
Harding, followed by a few interesting re-
marks from Brother Jacobson, president of
this branch. The program included recita-
tions, musical selections both instrumental
and vocal, solos, duetts and trios
	Off in one corner the game of fish pond 
was in progress, the liberal patronage it re-
ceived pronounced the game a great suc-
cess. There was a handsome doll and a
large oil painting on exhibition. In a
little room apart from the main hall the
young ladies dispensed refreshments in the
most approved manner.
	President Nye, whom we are always
glad to see, was with us. Those mission-
ary Elders present were Brothers Harding,
Bachman, Pratt, West and Athey. Toward
the close of the entertainment the sisters de-
cided to auction some of the articles yet un-
sold. Elder Pratt acted as auctioneer, and
he sold everything he could lay his hands
on without reserve, to the highest bidder;
but the sisters thought the bids not high
enough when dolls marked at two dollars
were sold for twenty-five cents, so called a
halt and Elder Pratt reluctantly gave up
his position.
	The Fair was a success both financially
and socially, a good spirit prevailed during
the whole evening and everybody returned
home feeling that our first attempt at a Fair
was a great success.
	Thanks to the untiring efforts of Sister
E. Woollacott, president of the Society, 
and her two counselors, Sisters Rand and
Hedberg.
					A. H. SHAMOS.


A MONUMENT has been raised in South
Corolina over the grave of Lucinda Horne,
who went all through the Civil war with
her husband. It is said that this is the only
battle monument on any woman’s grave ex-
cept that of Joan of Arc.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY February 1, 1898.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S MEMORIAL BUILDING.

	THE George Washington memorial com-
mittee of Utah held a meeting in the city
on February 1st, at 2 p. m., at the residence
of Mrs. O. J. Salisbury, chairman for Utah
appointed by the central committee of which
Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston is
chairman. The meeting was called by
Mrs. C. E. Allen, vice-chairman by request of
Mrs. Salisbury, who is still in New York
City. Mrs. Salisbury went to Washington
to attend the Woman’s Congress held there
by the Washington Memorial Association
on Dec. 14, 15 and 16, 1897, for the pur-
pose of planning a system of campaign in
the interest of the memorial or administra-
tion building or which the women of the
country have undertaken to raise a fund of
$250,000. At the meeting held on Febru-
ary 1, it was considered and voted upon as
the sentiment of the meeting that the $1,000
from this state be given by the children in
pennies or nickels. Committees were ap-
pointed by the chair to wait upon the
Governor of the State and the State Super-
intendent of schools and also the board of
education of Salt Lake City and lay the mat-
ter of collections before them for their views
and suggestions

	“For nearly one hundred years the last
will of Washington has stood as a monu-
ment of his sagacity in foreseeing the fact
that a state founded on popular intelligence
would need facilities for the highest special-
ization as well as for universal education.
His will is unfulfilled. Is it not a reproach to
us as a people that the wisdom of one of
our greatest men has not been heeded?
	“Education in politics and good govern-
ment was a part of his thought, and the
need is as great today as ever. The safety
of the home and of individual liberty de-
pends upon the proper education of states-
men. The future of the nation and of the
race demands the service of the most care-
fully trained minds, that by public hygiene
and preventive medicine, stalwart bodies
may be the rule; that the complex relation
of sex and of capital and labor arising from
the introduction of machinery may cease to
threaten the welfare of children yet unborn;
that a higher type of education for every in-
dividual child may be evolved; that material
conditions may not stifle the spiritual life of
the people.
	“Opportunity for research, investigation,
which alone can produce these results, is
slightly cared for in this country. Our
students flock to Europe for it. Where in

[Column 2]
universities it is provided, it is done by the
uncertain gifts of individuals, and depends
upon the fluctuations of interest-bearing
securities. The nation could receive such
gifts and give stability to the income, could
confer grants and thus insure the highest
opportunities to young people of genius. In
democracy still more than in a monarchy
this opportunity should be given, because
in a democracy the fruits of genius more
readily become the property of all.
	“The George Washington Memorial Com-
mittee desires to raise a fund of $250,000
for a building, the administrative home for a
National University, and they wish every
man woman and child in the United States
to hear of Washington’s bequest, and to
have the opportunity of giving a small sum
for this memorial. February 22, 1898, has
been selected as the Offering Day to the
memory of our honored first president.”


A POET’S EVENING.

	ON the evening of Friday, January 21,
last, a number of the old-time friends of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow, the sublime and eminent
leader among the women of Zion, kept her
birthday anniversary at the home of the
writer. There were about forty of the sis-
ters present among whom were the vener-
able women Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne and Bathsheba W. Smith and others
not so far advanced in life. These three
Mothers in Israel were members of the first
organization of the Relief Society in Nau-
voo, and had always been closely associated
with “Sister Eliza.”
	The hymn “O My Father” was sung and
prayer was offered by Sister M. Isabella
Horne—following the prayer the ladies
joined in singing “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah,” Sister Zina
made a brief address and the hostess read
letters of regret from Sisters Jane S. Rich-
ards of Ogden, Sarah M. Kimball, Emma
Woodruff and others of Salt Lake City.
Many of the ladies present read choice
selections from her favorite poem of the es-
teemed and revered poetess; and the time
flew by on “wings of the wind” so to
speak. Simple refreshments were served
although the party was more of a spiritual
and poetic nature than one of feasting and
merriment.
	The memory of the beloved “elect lady”
was fresh and tender in the minds of all
present. Her writings, her teachings her
travels at home and abroad, her labors
among the people and in the Temple were
all remarked upon in the general conversa-
tion. Sister Eliza lives in the hearts of the
Saints and her good works will never die.
She is immortalized by her poems, and the
writer would recommend that the Young
People’s Association keep copies of her two
volumes of poems in their libraries. There
is a large number for sale at the Deseret
News Office, and they are considered valu-
able additions to the literature of the
Church. The children of Zion should be
taught to venerate the memory of one who
did so much for them, in visiting, teaching
and organizing; besides the books written
expressly for their use. The Primary
Hymn Book and Tune Book, Questions
and Answers and the Primary Speaker
Vols. I. and II. Beside the books already
mentioned Sister Eliza edited and published
Correspondence from Palestine and The Life
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, and family
history.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretary of each Stake organization
of the Relief Society will please send statis-
tical and financial report of her respective
Stake for the year 1897, as soon as possible
to the General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton, Salt Lake City. Branches of
the Relief Society not included in any of the
Stakes of Zion will also send annual reports
so that the secretary may be able to prepare
a complete and correct report of the Society
in good time for the April conference.
	AN exquisite dinner party was given in
this city on Monday January 31, to about
fifty ladies, intimate friends of the honored
guest ot the occasion, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young. The party was given by Mes-
dames Maria Y. Dougall and Phebe Y.
Beatie at the residence of Mrs. Beatie. Mrs.
Jane S. Richards of Ogden was the only
missing guest. As it was also her birthday
as well as Mrs. Young’s the supposition was
she was detained at home by some recogni-
tion in her honor. The affair was a delight-
ful social success. Mrs. Young was the re-
cipient of many hearty congratulations and
expressions of tender affection. As a
mother in Israel no woman is more truly
beloved and appreciated by the Latter-day
Saints.
THE CLEOFAN.
	ON Tuesday afternoon Jan. 25, at 2. p.
m. at the club which met at the home of
Mrs. H. L. A. Culmer, 27 C. St., Miss
Kate Wells read a carefully prepared paper
on “Sir Francis Bacon,” treating of his
life, reviewing his more important works
and quoting extensively from his essays.
An interesting paper on “Sir Walter Scott
Raleigh” by Mrs. F. Marian Dinwoodey
was read by Mrs Blanche P. Lee. There
was a very good attendance of the members
and the afternoon was a very pleasant one,
the topics being very interesting. The
next meeting of the club will be on Feb. 21
at the Ladies Literary club house where the
Cleofan expects to meet regularly hereafter.
	MRS. ISABEL WING LAKE and Dr. Caro-
lyn Giesel of Chicago, are here in the inter-
est of the mission work; they are working
in the department of Social Purity of the
National Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union and do effective work by the way as
they journey westward They are both
women of education, refinement and of large
experience in the field of humanity, earnest
and conscientious and are doing their work
methodically and as practically as it is pos-
sible to do this sort of reform work. They
have been in Denver and other parts of
Colorado recently ascertaining facts and
looking into the condition of the public
morals of the cities and large towns. For
the past week they have been in Provo
lecturing and have aroused considerable en-
thusiasm on the question of temperance,
purity and cigarrette smoking. Thursday
they visited the chief of police here and en-
quired into conditions in this city and con-
cerning laws and ordinances upon the
statute books. They will probably remain
here some time and hold a series of meet-
ings open to the public.


LADY HENRY SOMERSET has resigned
the presidency of the British Women’s Tem-
perance Association, as her health is too
much impaired for her to perform the
duties.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
POLYNESIA

BY EMMA JENSON.
	THE opportunities of obtaining a liveli-
hood in native style on Samoa are very
good. It requires next to no effort at all
to obtain the necessary food. Taro or kalo
grows with but very little help in the shape
of cultivation and this is the staple article of
food on the group. Breadfruit is picked
from the trees as it ripens for several months
during the year, and cocoanut is always to
be had. Its flesh is used by the natives in
the preparation of many of their “rare
dishes.” When the breadfruit is out of
season and the people have neglected to
plant taro they are sometimes compelled to
subsist for months together on bananas. At
different times in past years when the is-
lands have been visited by hurricanes which
have blown down the breadfruit and cocoa-
nut and often pulled up or blown down the
trees themselves, the people have been re-
duced to a point of starvation until they
could plant and reap bananas, or until the
next crop of breadfruit would ripen. The
group of Manua are an exception to this,
here the people always keep a year’s supply
on hand and by this precaution have al-
ways escaped famine.
	Neither fermented nor distilled liquors 
were used by the Pacific Islanders before
the appearance of the whites on their shores
but they drank an infusion of the roots of
the awa plant, and that is still the favorite
drink on Samoa. The awa root is first
chewed by a certain class of young maidens,
pure virgins, of which there are one or
more in each village, after which the masti-
cated morsels are placed in a wooden bowl
and water poured upon them. The infusion
is then strained through a mesh of the awa
(cyperus) fibers and is then ready for drink-
ing. Its effects are narcotic and stupifying
and effects the legs more particularly, for
after the natives have drunk their fill of awa
they simply fall over from their seats on the 
mats on which they have been sitting while
drinking, and sleep out the effects of the
drug, until which it would be impossible
for them even to stand up for a moment.
	Speaking of the chewing of the awa root
by the Samoa woman it may be mentioned
that they are able to put their mouths to
sundry other kinds of peculiar usage. Thus
the Samoa mother always feeds her baby
from her own mouth to that of her child.
When she has to fill a lamp with coal oil
she generally fills her mouth with the oil
and then emits it into the vessel; she fills a
bottle in the same way. If a feminine
quarrel is going on the almost perfect teeth
with which nearly every native is blessed
are brought into terrible requisition, and
when a woman once buries her teeth in the
flesh of her opponent she is like the terrier,
loth to let go her grip until the enemy is
partly reduced to sausage meat. If a wo-
man in Samoa finds her husband untrue to
her she does not seek revenge on him par-
ticularly, but on his victim, whose nose the
wronged wife bites off if she can get the
opportunity; consequently noseless women
are frequently met with in Samoa.
	For a cheap and easy living Tonga per-
haps stands ahead of any group of islands in
the Pacific. The inhabitants there could
subsist for months on what nature herself
provides for them, without any exertion on
their part except to pick the fruit and eat.
And this naturally makes the natives of the

[Column 2]
Tonga Islands the most independent people
imaginable. That this has a tendency to
make them lazy and indolent is but natural.
The average Tongan is not supposed to
work more than about one day in a week.
	The absence of running streams or rivers
is one of the characteristics of the Friendly
Islands. There are only two very insig-
nificant exceptions throughout the 
whole group. Those occur at Vavan and
Ena. For soft water the inhabitants de-
pend entirely upon what is collected from
the clouds, either in tanks or clay pits called
by the natives lebas. The rainy months
are December, January and February. The
average temperature during the entire year
is 76, Fahrenheit. During the hot months
from December to March the thermometer
frequently ranges at 90 and even 96 in the
shade. The islands are subject to hurri-
canes which seem to recur with periodical
regularity and always in the rainy season
from December to March. “The full force
of the cyclone falls upon one or other of
the three groups, at intervals of about seven
years,” writes the Rev. Thomas West.
“The hurricane gives but few indications of
its approach. The wind rises suddenly, ac-
companied by heavy rain and its duration,
strength and progress in any given locality
depends upon its being nearer to, or more
remote from the center of the wind circle.
No tongue or pen can possibly convey an
adequate idea of these visitations. Heaven
and earth appear to be on the move; and
as for the sea, the grandeur is altogether in-
describable. The rush of the irresistable
tempest; the cracking and fall of trees on all
sides; branches hurled through the air;
cocoanuts torn from the trees and flung in
all directions with the velocity of a cannon
ball; a deluge of rain, unusual darkness and
the crash of falling houses; all of these at-
tendants upon a hurricane make up one of
the most dismal and terrific pictures in
natural phenomena. The destruction of
dwelling houses and other buildings usually
attendant upon these visitations must, how-
ever, be attributed not merely to the force
of the wind, but also in a great measure to
the torrents of rain. The fact is the heavy
rain soon saps the foundation of the large
posts upon which the security of the build-
ing depends. Gradually the wind sways
the superstructure to and fro, and at
every gust opens and widens the earth
around the sockets of the posts, until the
entire fabric loses its equilibrium and
coming down with a crash, all its posts and
beams however tough and thick are snapped
like so many carrots.” During a hurricane
in Vavan many years ago thirty-four out of
thirty-nine Wesleyan chapels were blown
down, though these buildings were the very
best and strongest constructed by the peo-
ple. All the islands are subject to earth-
quakes which are both frequent and violent.
	Speaking about rain storms in the tropics
my husband relates an experience he had in
Samoa. While crossing a lava bed about
twelve miles in extent together with a
traveling companion, a regular tropical rain
storm came upon them; and such a storm
conveys the sense of “pouring” more than
raining to the average American. Seeing
the storm approach my husband in speak-
ing to his companion expressed the regret
that they had taken no overcoats along.
“Overcoats,” responded his companion,
“just look at me, and if you like you can
follow my example.” To his surprise his
companion immediately undressed himself

[Column 3]
and put his clothing in his little hand satch-
el. My husband hesitated but finally did
likewise, and ihe result was that when the
storm abated they both had dry clothes to
put on.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society conference held at Manti, Dec. 18,
1897. Opened by singing “Lord we come
before Thee now.” Prayer by L. J. Nuttall.
Singing “Where the voice of friendship’s,
heard.”
	President M. A. Hyde spoke of the
signs of the times and the gathering of the
Jews; warned the mothers to have a watch
care over their children.
	The different Societies were represented
as follows: Gunnison, Pres. Helena Mad-
sen; Fountain Green, Sec. Christina Guy-
man; Fairview, Counselor Caroline Peter-
son; Fayette, Pres. Eliza Bartholomew;
Mt. Pleasant, by letter; Ephraim North
ward, Pres. Benedicta Hansen; Manti
North ward, Pres. R. Wareham; Manti
South ward, Pres. Esther Anderson; Moro-
ni, Pres. Annie Hardy; Mayfield, Pres.
Matilda Olsen; Milburn, Sec. Nelly Gra-
ham.
	President M. A. Hyde said if the sisters
would have faith and would arise and speak
and bear testimony, the Lord would bless
them and give them a testimony. Said
there were many things that would come to
try us, but if we have a testimony we will
overcome them.
	Bishop Jensen was pleased to see that the
sisters were interested in the poor of the
ward. Counselor A. L. Cox made a few
closing remarks. Singing “Now let us re-
joice.” Benediction by Brother Aaron
Hardy.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “Guide
us O Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by
J. B. Maiben. Singing “We thank Thee O
God for a prophet.” Reading and adop-
tion of the previous minutes. The remain-
ing reports were given: Spring City,
Counselor Nancy Acord; Sterling, Elizabeth
Thompson; Butler Field, Counselor Martha
Sorenson
	Brother L. J. Nuttall spoke of the small
percentage of sisters attending the meeting;
thought the sisters were not doing them-
selves justice. Said it was not only for the
poor, but for the saving of souls. He
looked upon the Society as a school and
we cannot be saved in our ignorance. Gave
instructions to the secretaries and said he
looked upon the wheat question as one of
the most important things in the Society;
it came from the highest authority. He
said if the Saints do all they can to avert
the famine the Lord will avert their calami-
ties from their door. Said are we becoming
mixed up with the world or are we prepar-
ing to save our own souls and help others
to save theirs? Asked the peace and bless-
ing of the Lord to be with us.
	President M. A. Hyde gave the sisters a
mother’s blessing; she then spoke in
tongues and Sister Elizabeth Casto inter-
preted.
	Brother J. D. T. McAllister endorsed and
testified to the truthfulness of the remarks
that had been made and encouraged the
taking of notes. Said to follow those who
were to lead and it would be well with us.
Brother J. B. Maiben hoped we might be


[Column 1]
in the path of progress and that we might
be better one year than another, as we are
in the school of Christ.
	Brother L. J. Nuttall said there is every-
thing in our Society that is necessary for
the advancement or good of the sisters-
He said if we find anything good and truth.
ful we can unite it with ours.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing Doxology. Benediction by Bishop
Hans Jenson.
SALT LAKE STAKE,
	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held  in
the Fourteenth ward assembly hall Dec. 18,
1897, President M. I. Horne presiding with
her counselors A. T. Taylor and C. C. Can-
non. Present on the stand were Elder
Brigham Young of the council of the
Apostles; Elder Angus M. Cannon presi-
dent of the Salt Lake Stake; Sisters Zina
D. H. Young of the general board; B. W.
Smith, J. S. Richards, M. W. Wilcox, E.
J. Stevenson, J. C. Howe and L. D. Alder.
Meeting was opened by singing “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Prayer was offered by
C. C. Cannon. Singing “O awake my
slumbering minstrel.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted. Roll
called, forty-five wards represented.
	President Horne said she felt happy to
see so many together, we should seek first
tha kingdom of God and all other things
would be added. “Blessed are ye when ye
seek after righteousness.” Said the adver-
sary was seeking after the Latter-day Saints
and trying to throw obstacles in the way of
those who were trying to do their duty.
Said to ask our Heavenly Father what our
duties were and do them, pray without
ceasing, take care of our children and try
and help them in the straight and narrow
path. Said, “I see many things in Zion
that make me sad, but Zion will be purified
and the Lord is willing to deliver us from
sin.” Said the Gospel was so plain and
beautiful it should stimulate us to do good
and lift up all who come under its influence.
“We are blest of all women, let us not
get weary of well doing.” Spoke on the
Church works being read in the Society,
said they were good food for any Latter-
day Saint. All kinds of clubs were being
organized, why cannot we reform in our
Society and call on those who do not attend?
Prayed the Lord to bless us in our confer-
ence and hoped we would all be fed with
the bread of life.
	Sister B. W. Smith asked for the faith
and prayers of the sisters, was pleased with
the reports. Said her time was taken up
in the Temple, it was a great work and
President Young had said he would like to
see twenty temples built, some in Mexico
and Arizona, for the Savior would not come
while there was so much wickedness on the
earth. Prayed for the Lord to bless the sis
ters in their labors.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde felt her weakness
and asked for the prayers of the sisters. She
felt that the presidents were interested in
their work, and that the Lord blessed His
daughters. The Prophet Joseph had an in-
terest and care over the women when he
appointed his wife Emma president of the
Society. Our Society should be education-
al, advised reading and speaking in the
Society and said we have everything in our
organization to elevate women.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon rejoiced in meet-
ing with the Society, said it had been edu-

[Column 2]
cational to her and she had learned many
things that had been of benefit to her at
home and in the Society. She spoke on the
word of wisdom and the blessings promised
to those who observed its laws, and said we
should teach the young people the evil
effects of not observing it.
	Elder Brigham Young of the Council of
the Apostles, said he hoped he was not in-
truding, had not given the workings of the
Society his study but felt it was an im-
portant factor in the Church, and that the
sisters wielded an influence, the mother’s
mind should be a fountain of knowledge,
felt a great responsibility resting upon the
mothers and sisters in the Church in trying
to purify society of its many evils. Said
the sisters were as staunch and faithful as
any of the brethren. The onslaught was
on the youth of Zion and what is so power-
ful as the Relief Society in staying the
wickedness that is among us? The sisters
are prompted by the spirit of the Lord and
can do a great deal of good in saving the
people. There is more virtue among the
sisters, the brethren have the world, the
flesh and the devil to overcome. He had
met with some of the organizations in his
travels and they were doing a good work.
Gave an interesting account of his travels
in the south.
	President Angus M. Cannon said he
could say amen to everything Brother
Young had said. We did not want our
own will but the will of the Lord. Said he
enjoyed the good spirit tnat attended these
meetings and felt to advance the cause of
Zion, blessed the sisters in their good en-
deavors.
	Sister Horne felt thankful to have the
brethren with us this morning. Meeting
adjourned till two o’clock. Singing “Do
what is right.” Benediction Elder Cannon.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing “All hail the glorious day.” Prayer by
Sister M. W. Wilcox. Singing “O say
what is truth.” Reports were given of some
of the city wards, all were in good condi-
tion.
	Sister Zina Young said it was joy for her
to meet with the sisters. She had recently
traveled six hundred miles, her daughter
Zina Card sent her love to all the sisters.
Joseph Smith the prophet had turned the
key for women, and she felt the same spirit
today as she had then. Said how humble
we should be and put aside all pride and
selfishness. She felt the power of the Lord
was among the sisters; asked the Lord to
perfect us and bring us into His presence.
	Sister Horne spoke on storing wheat and
said she had urged the sisters when wheat
was cheap to buy it, now it was going up.
There was room in the 14th ward granary
for a thousand bushels of wheat to be stored.
The wheat should be under the sisters’
jurisdiction and be purchased by the sisters.
Said to lay aside selfishness and build up
the kingdom of God.
	Sister J. S. Richards of Ogden, said this
house was like coming to an old home;
here her children bad been blessed and
those of her loved ones who had passed
away their funerals had been held here, and
she felt the hall had a sacred place in her
memory. Said to teach our children to
honor and respect the memory of great men
and women. She felt the counsel of Sister
Horne about the wheat was timely, the
fever for parting with the wheat in her part
of the country was great, but she had ad-
vised them to keep it, wheat held a precious

[Column 3]
place in her heart. Said she wanted to do
good if only in little things and spoke on
visiting and comforting the sick. Said to
have charity for each others weaknesses and
do good to those who despitefully use you.
Asked the Lord to help us to do His will.
	Sister Horne hoped the sisters of the
Society would remember and make happy
the poor during the holidays, and begin
1898 anew in good works. Gave notice to
the secretaries to have their reports in by
February, and meeting adjourned for three
months. Singing “When shall we all meet
again.” Benediction by Dr. E. Barney.
		MARGARET Y. TAYLOR, Sec.
EAST MILL CREEK.
	Minutes of the Primary conference held
Oct. 30, 1897, President E. E. Fisher pre-
siding. Singing “Our Father in heaven.”
Prayer by Counselor F. M. Neff. Singing
“Oh come children come.” Roll was called
and the minutes of the last conference were
read and accepted. The program was car-
ried out as follows:
	Song by Dorcas Debenham and Genie
Neff. The alphabet in rhyme was given
by Hazel and Irene Tagg and Erva Fisher.
Millie Capson read a revelation given to
Joseph Smith in Portage Co. Ohio. Chloe
Young, Lena Ranck and Pauline Fisher
sang “The Primary Throng.” Questions
and Answers on the restoration of the Gos-
pel were given by Junius Fisher, Laurence
Fisher, Joseph Oliver, Edgar Debenham
and Leon Eldredge. A dialogue was ren-
dered by Elaine Neff and Eveline Fisher.
The Articles of Faith were given by Julia
Woodell. A recitation was given by Millie
King. Questions and Answers on the
“Church” were given by Caleb Fisher and
Johnie Oliver, A dialogue was given by
Annie and Phillis King. Recitations were
given by Mary Fisher and Forest Fagg.
	Sister Morris then spoke a few moments.
She said she was pleased to meet with us
and sang a motion song with the children.
Gave a short history of Joseph Smith and
related some very interesting incidents con-
nected with his early life.
	Sister Howe spoke to us a short time.
Said she was very much pleased to meet
with us and pleased with our program. She
felt that the children responded with inspir-
ation and faith, and told how the Laman-
ites came to be cursed. Said we were a
blessed people and that we should appreci-
ate our great blessings. Advised all to
pray without ceasing, and related an inci-
dent of a little boy who was healed through
faith. Spoke of obedience, said it was the
first law of heaven, and told the children to
love one another and to pray for each other,
to pray for her and to remember her. Pray-
ed God to bless us all.
	Irene Fisher was then voted in secretary
of East Mill Creek. Primary conference was
then adjourned for one year. Singing
“Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
Benediction by Counselor Capson.
					E. E. FISHER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN 1873 Ann Arbor (Mich.) district con-
ference of the M. E. Church gave Mrs.
Frances D. York a local preacher’s license,
the first given to a woman in the State of
Michigan.
	THE Mayflower pamphlet issued by the
New York Mail and Express price fifty
cents, contains personal history and gen-
eological records of many prominent fami-
lies.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS the Great and Supreme Ruler of the
universe has in His infinite wisdom removed from
us one of our worthy and esteemed fellow labor-
ers, Emma Brown, and
	WHEREAS, The long and intimate relation held
with her in the faithful discharge of her duties in
this Relief Society makes it eminently befitting 
that we record our appreciation of her. There-
fore be it
	RESOLVED, That the willing and faithful aid
that she exercised in our organization by service,
contribution and counsel will be held in grateful
remembrance.
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal of such a
life from our midst leaves a vacancy and a shadow
that will be deeply realized by all the members
and friends of this organization, and her service,
contribution and counsel will be held in grateful
remembrance.
	RESOLVED, That with deep sympathy with the
bereaved relatives of the deceased we express
our hope that even so great a loss to us all may
be over-ruled for good by Him Who doeth all
things well.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these res[-]lutions be
placed upon the records of this organization, a
copy published in the local paper and in the “Wo-
man’s Exponent.”
				MELISSA MURDOCK, Pres.
				ANNIE WRIGHT, Sec.
CHRISTINA GRAEME MCINTYRE.
	Sister Christina Graeme McIntyre, daughter of
James and Mary Brady Graeme, died Nov. 28,
1897, at the residence of her daughter, Sister
Jennette Kelley, American Fork, Utah, where she
had gone on a visit. Her home was in Mi[-]l
Creek ward, Salt Lake county. She was born in
Oct. 1813 at Craigh Lee Wood, Renfesshire Scot-
land. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1843 and emigrated
to Utah in 1863. She was the mother of nine
children and had forty-two grandchildren and
thirty-nine great grandc[-]ildren. Some of this
large posterity have gone before to the spirit
world.
	Sister Christina passed through many trying
scenes in an early day for the Gospel she had em-
braced, but she was ever firm and true, living her
religion for the consolation it gave her. She had
been very handsome in her youth and she retain-
ed her good looks with a grace and dignity that
rested we[-]l upon her in her declining years.
	She was not prominent in society but her home
qualities endeared her to her children, re[-]atives
and friends. The principles of the Gospel was
her constant theme. She was a firm believer in
gifts and blessings being conferred on those who
seek earnestly for them. She was a faithful mem-
ber of the Relief Society as long as she was able
to attend, and many of the faithful testimonies she
bore are recorded in the Society’s record books.
She will be held in faithfu[-] remembrance by those
who are left to continue the work.
	She was tenderly cared for by her daughter and
all was done for her that love and affection could
do. Being intimately acquainted with her daugh
ter, Sister Mary McAllister, we can speak of her
untiring devotion to her mother.
	The remains were brought to her granddaugh
ter’s, Sister Mary M. Williams, who resides in
Mill Creek ward, where the funeral services were
held. Many loving friends assembled to pay their
last respects to one with whom they loved to as-
sociate in the past. Brother Jo[-]eph E. Taylor of
the Stake presidency, Elder John Henry Smith of
Salt Lake City, the Bishopric of the ward and
some of the local brethren each spoke of the 
goodness and faithfulness of our dear departed
sister and gave words of comfort and encourage-
ment to those present. 
	After the close of the services the cortege form
ed which conveyed the loved one to the city
cemetrey where she was laid to rest in peace.
				ELIZABETH HILL, Pres.
				FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec.
	Mill Creek Ward Relief Society.
AGNES HAMILTON.
	Agnes Hamilton, daughter of John and Elizabeth
Hamtilon was born in Shelburn, Nova Scotia, Sep.
20, 1818; moved from there to Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania where she married Richard Curfew in
August 1847; she died at the reside[-]ce of her son,
James Curfew in Lower Valley, Beaver Co. Utah,
Oct. 26, 1897. The remains were brought to
Beaver City for burial and funeral services were

[Column 2]
held in the Latter-day Saints meeting house Oct,
28, comforting and consoling remarks being offer-
ed by Elder William Fotheringham, President C.
D. White and Bishop George Mumford, after
which they were followed to their last resting
place in the city cemetery by a large cortege of
relatives and friends.
	Sister Hamilton was the mother of six children,
three sons and three daughters, and had thirty-
two grandchildren. A son and a daughter and
ten grandchildren preceded her to the spirit world.
	She embraced the Gospel in her native town,
emigrated from Philadelphia to Utah and s[-]ttled
in Beaver in 1861. She became a member of the
Relief Society when it was first organized in the
latter place. She was a teacher for a number of
years and was ever ready and willing to assist in
any and every cal[-]; and altho’ she had re[-]ided
the last few years of her life with her children in
various places, she frequently visited her daughter
who still resided here, but was called away by
the hand of death five months previous to her
mother’s demise. In all of her visits she was
gladly welcomed by her sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety where she had labored so faithfully, her
name being always retained on the roll. She
passed through trying circumstances but never
complained that her lot was hard. When her
husband was called to part with a plural wife who
left an infant a few days old she took the little
babe and cared for it as her own, and that child,
now a young man, feels her loss as an own
mother.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His alwise
profidence has seen fit to take from our midst by
the hand of death our beloved sister and co-
laborer, Sister Agnes Hamilton, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Beaver
Relief Society extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved children and grandchildren in this sad
hour of trial and bereavement.
	RESOLVED, That we strive to emulate her many
noble deeds and cherish in our hears that love
for her which she so truly won.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, a copy be placed on
the Society record and one be sent to the “Wo-
man’s Exponent” for publication,
			JANE W. BICKLEY, Pres.
			ALICE M. TANNER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
EGYPT.

	BEFORE closing the history of Egypt in
the Reapers Club it may prove interesting
to many of us to take a retrospective glance
over the work that has claimed our atten-
tion for so many weeks, with the object of
refreshing our memories on its principal
dates and items of interest.
	We have learned that with the migration
of the sons of Noah from Bactria, Egypt
must have been one of the first countries
settled. There is no knowledge extant of
an earlier civilization and we refer to the
Pearl of Great Price where it is stated
that Egyptus, the daughter of Ham, dis-
covered and settled the country, her eldest
son governing under the title of Pharaoh,
meaning one of royal blood. Then too,
Herodotus the Greek historian, styled the
“Father of History” who wrote 450 B. C.,
was a traveler as well as a writer and
gives us much that came under his observa-
tion. But even in his day there was little
to be learned of the builders of the wonder-
ful temples, palaces and monuments lying
in ruins on every side, silent witnessess of
a magnificent past; and the strange hiero-
glyphics and picture writing chiselled and
drawn on every hand in pride and boast-
fulness that future ages might read and
envy, were as silent as the hand that form-
ed them. He spoke of the manners and
customs of their religious rites and cere-
monies. The early history of the country
is lost in obscurity and we have fabulous 
accounts of its being governed by gods, but
all historians agree that Menes, or Mizriam,

[Column 2]
the son of Ham, founded Memphis about
2,700 B. C., making it the capital of the
country and that it then reached a high
state of civilization.
	The history of the country from the
founding of Memphis until the Persian
invasion which covers a period of a little
more than two thousand years, is divided
into three parts called the Old, Middle and
New Empires. During the first thousand
the pyramids are supposed to have been
built, Abraham came from Caanan, the
shepherd kings, supposed to have been
Arabians, overrun the country, usurped the
throne, established a government and re-
ligion which taught the worship of the true
God. During this time Joseph was made
chief minister and Jacob was given the land
of Goshen. In time the kingdom was di-
vided into many parts and Thebes became
the capital, the city of a hundred gates,
costly palaces, and wonderful works such as
the lake Moeris and the Labarinth abound.
The shepherd kings have been driven out
and a Theban ruler is on the throne, the peo-
ple are united and Egypt for another one
thousand years enjoyed great prosperity,
rising to the height of its glory. Thotmes
III., called the Egyptian Alexander the
Great, erected the magnificent temple
at T—Seti, built the great hall of Karnac.
Rameses II. was a great builder. He it
was who made the lives of the Hebrews
bitter with hard labor. He founded a
library, inscribed the “Dispensary of the
Soul,” and gathered around him many men
of learning, making his time the golden age
of early art and literature. Thus closed
the second thousand years.
	Then began the decline of the Empire. It
was unable to keep the great conquests in
Ovid and other countries, the tributaries
uprose and the country was conquered by
the Ethiopians and the Assyrians, and fin-
ally under Cambyses, the Persian king, be-
came a Persian province, 525 B. C. For
two hundred years the Egyptians struggled
with the Persians for independence, they
often gained it but as often were overcome
again, and for over two hundred years there
has not been a native ruler in the land of
Egypt, thus fulfilling the prophecy of Ezek-
iel that “there shall be no more a prince in
the land of Egypt.” And we look for its
subsequent history with that of its conquer-
ors.
	In 336 B. C. Alexander the Great, king of
Macedonia, conquered the Persians and
marched against Thebes, destroying the
magnificent city, and selling the inhabitants to
the number of thirty thousand into slavery.
He also founded the city of Alexandria
which for many centuries afterwards was
the first commercial cityt of he world. At
his death and the division of his kingdom
among his generals, Ptolemy a half brother,
was given Egypt, and now commenced the
reign of the Ptolemies. There was thirteen
successive rulers of that name, their
government extending over a period of
about three thousand years and ending with
the death of the famous Cleopatra, who
occupying the throne with her brother was
the last of the Ptolemies. During the
reign of the first of these monarchs Egypt
was the center of learning for the world.
Great libraries were founded and science
and literature flourished.
	In 316 B.C. was fought the battle of Ach-
eron in whtch Octavius defeated Anthony
and Cleopatra and Egypt became a Roman
province. Two hundred years later, 668


[Column 1]
the Mohammedans overrun the country
burning the famous library at Alexandria.
In 1217 it was conquered by the Turks,
in 1798 it was invaded by Napoleon, in
1801 the British expelled the French and
the country fell into the hands of the Turks
under whose government it has remained to
the present day.
	We learn of their religion that they be-
lieved in one God, self-creative and all
powerful; that His representatives were
worshiped in the sun and moon, in the form
of animals, cats, dogs and crocodiles and
many others. That they believed in the
immortality of the soul and a final judg-
ment with a heaven hereafter whose degree
of glory would correspond with our work
here. In the catacombs built in the chain
of mountains bordering the Nile are im-
mense tombs; the upper rooms are orna-
mented with pictures and statuary showing
the people in their daily occupation, and
here we gather fragments of their history
proving that they were skilled in agricul-
ture, mechanical arts and domestic work.
Linen found in the tombs at Memphis is
comparable in touch to silk, equaling our
finest cambric. Dyeing and coloring was
well understood. Indeed their secret of
colors in painting has never been equaled.
Time does not fade them, and it is said that
among many ruins the colors are well pre-
served.
	Their literature contains much that is
elevating, showing a high standard of mor-
als. From the Book of the Dead, we quote
the soul’s defense before the God Osisis,
the sun: “I have not been idle; I have not
been intoxicated; I have not told secrets; I
have not told falsehoods; I have not de-
frauded; I have not slandered; I have not
caused tears; I have given food to the hun-
gry, drink to the thirsty, and clothes to
the naked.” The papyrus or reed plant
with parchment, the dried skins of animals,
was prepared in sheets to hold their writ-
ing. The earliest books consisted of pic-
tures similar to those used by our Indians
today. The people were divided into class-
es, the priests being the most learned and
powerful. In disposition they were mild
and social and very religious, their religion
entering into every day life. Dark-skinned,
tall and well proportioned people who were
fond of amusement and great lovers of
flowers.
	Their architecture massive and enduring
has been the wonder of the world. The
Egyptian granite is so hard that it can
scarcely be cut with the best steel made to-
day, yet anciently it was chiselled or cut
several inches deep showing a beautiful
finish. Among the greatest pieces of
architecture are the pyramids, the great
Karnac, Labarinth and lake Moeris. The
great pyramid of Cheops is 480 ft. high and
covers 13 1/2 acres. Prof. Seiss calls it a
great temple built in the land of Egypt to
the Lord, and brings forth many arguments
that are unanswerable in regard to its
wonderful scientific and astronomical char-
acters, showing that its builders had more
than human knowledge. Unlike the other
ruins found such as palaces, temples, oba-
lisks and monuments, the pyramids are left
without hieroghyphics, or picture writing,
this appears unaccountable. I think it is
impossible for any one to read the works of
Profs. Smith and Seiss and remain uncon-
vinced of its divine origin. At Thebes the
great temple of Karnac connected with that
of Luxor two miles away by an avenue of

[Column 2]
sphinxes it is said words cannot describe.
The great hall is 340 by 170 feet. It con-
tains over one hundred columns 70 feet
high and, quoting from Ferguson’s history
of architecture, “The mass of its central
piers, illuminated by a flood of light from
above and the smaller pillars of its wings
gradually fading into obscurity, are so ar-
ranged and lighted as to convey an idea of
infinite space; while the beauty and mas-
siveness of its forms and the brilliancy of
their colored decorations, all combine to
stamp this as one of the greatest of man’s
architectual works. The Labarinth at
Memphis was an immense temple palace of
three thousand rooms with beautiful
courts and colonades, built of white stone
finely finished and covered with carvings.
	Egypt today pays tribute to the Sultan of
Turkey, but has an hereditary governor
who is called the Khedive. It is the most
advanced and progressive of any of the
countries of Africa, having government
schools and railroads. The population is
very mixed consisting of Arabs, Copts des-
cended from the ancient Egyptians, Moham-
medans, Turks, Negroes and slaves. The
majority of the people are ignorant and
superstitious.
	The discoveries being made by the
Egyptologists of today are constantly un-
folding to us the history of its ancient peo-
ple. Prof. Petrio, the greatest of modern
workers, has recently made excavations
near Thebes which he says will place the
civilization one thousand years earlier than
has been recorded, and making it antedelu-
vian time. Since the finding of the Ros-
setta stone by one of Napoleon’s survey-
ors and its interpretation by the eminent
French scholar Champolleon, a key has
been given to the hieroglyphic cyphers,
clearing many dark pages of Egyptian his-
tory.
					LOUIDE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SONG.*

[Lovingly dedicated to the memory of Clara Leon-
ard who departed this life August 15, 1897.]

A MESSENGER came with the summons,
	He led the dear one by the hand,
Safely over the dark rolling river,
	Safely on to a beautiful land.

CHORUS.
Where the sweet angels tenderly whispered
	Welcome home, to a haven of rest,
Welcome home to the beautiful mansions, 
	he home of the pure and the blest.

The great books of Heaven were opened,
	Her record was spotless and white,
They entered the beautiful City
	Of God, clothed in beauty and light. 

CHORUS.
’Neath a bower of sweet-scented flowers,
	With children, the pride of her heart;
They unfolded the lessons of Heaven,
	Each modestly taking a part.

CHORUS.
They crowned her with jewels they gathered
	From the truths which she taught upon earth,
Sang the songs of the blessed Redeemer,
	Rejoiced at her coming and worth. 

CHORUS.
	*Tune: “I Know Not How Soon God May Call
Me.”
						LUCY A. CLARK.


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a do lar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
 
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.
 
		Midwifery Classes.
   DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.
---------------------------
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S SCHOOL.
	
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address		 ELLIS R. SHIPP.

			R.K. THOMAS
	   
	   Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

		      SALT LAKE CITY


		      The Leading Retail
 
			   Cash House.

			  R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1898.	NOS. 18 & 19.


CONTENTS:
	Frances E Willard. Washington Convention.
The Woman’s Signal. U W. P. C.—M. A. J.
Lambert. Appreciation—Daniel Tyler. Ann
Dillworth Bringhurst. The Cleofan—Clara T.
Felt. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—Zina H.
Bull. In Memoriam. R. S Reports. Some of
the Sects of the First Century—F. H. L Address.
	EDITORIAL:—The Present Indications Eighty
Years or More. Social and Delightful. An In-
teresting Party. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—My Silent Prayer—N. Washington’s
Birthday—Hezekiah Butterworth. Thoughts of
the New Year—Nellie. Expectancy—Hyacinth


For the Exponent.
MY SILENT SONG

I OFTEN sing a silent song,
	A song no mortal sense hath heard,
And yet its tones my soul can thrill,—
	Far more than music it hath stirred!
When sense of blessing on me falls
And memory oft the past recalls.
If undeserved, I yet must sing,
	My voiceless song, my hymn of praise;
I know its sweet and mellow ring,
	In sleepless nights, and happier days!
When e'er its inspiration swells,
The low bowed head, the tear-drop tells!
I long oft-times its notes to hear,
	When discontent its shadow flings;
Then time to think, to pray sincere,
	Brings back my song whose echo rings;
Then darkness flees and clouds sweep by,
I bask beneath a sun-kissed sky!
This precious song o’er moods and ills
	Glad victory gives to weary souls;
A foretaste ’tis of bliss which thri[-]ls,
	Past golden gates and jasper walls;
All things together work for good,
If Father’s love is understood!
’Tis proved beyond, if unknown here,
	Or seen by faith, a glimpse at best
My silent song, my heart shall cheer,
	While here I wait my promised rest!
To sing aloud, that same glad song
’Mid His redeemed, triumphant throng!
							N.


WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.

ARISE—tis the day of our Washington’s glory,
	The garlands uplift for our liberties won;
Forever let Time tell the patriot’s story,
	Whose sword swept for Freedom the fields of
		the sun.
			Not with gold nor with gems,
			But with evergreens vernal,
And the banners of stars that the continent span, 
Crown, crown we the chief of the heroes eternal,
Who lifted his sword for the birthright of man!
	He gave us a nation; to make it immortal,
	He laid down for Freedom the sword that he
		drew,
And his faith leads us on through the uplifting
		portal
	Of the glories of peace and our destines new. 
			Not with gold, nor with gems,
			But with evergreens vernal,
And the flags that the nations of liberty span,
Crown, crown him the chief of the heroes eternal 
Who laid down his sword for the birthright of
	man.


Lead, Face of the Future, serene in thy beauty,
	’Till o’er the dead heroes the peace star shall
		gleam,
Till Right shall be Might in the counsels of duty,
	And the service of man be life’s glory supreme.
			Not with gold nor with gems,
			But with evergreens vernal,
And the flags that the nations in brotherhood
		span,
Crown, crown him the chief of the heroes eternal,
Whose honor was gained by his service to man!
	O Spirit of Liberty, sweet are thy numbers!
	The winds to thy banners their tributes shall
		bring
While rolls the Potomac where Washington slum-
		bers,
	And his natal day comes with the angels of
		spring.
			We follow thy counsels,
			O hero eternal,
To highest achievements the school leads the van,
And, crowning thy brow with the evergreen ver-
		nal,
We pledge thee our all to the service of man!
			HEZEKIAH BUTTERWORTH.
—Selected.


FRANCES E. WILLARD.
MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD who died
Feb. 19, 1898, was the greatest Temper-
ance leader of the age. She had wonder-
ful power in many directions which eminent-
ly qualified her for the position and with-
al possessed that exquisite tact the French
designate finesse.
Miss Willard has twice visited Salt Lake
and is well known to many of the people of
Utah.
The sketch of her life given here is from
a Chicago paper.
“Miss Willard was born in Churchville,
near Rochester, New York, Sep. 28, 1839.
She was the daughter of Josiah F. and
Mary Thompson Hill Willard, both of New
England stock. Her girlhood was spent in
Churchville. Oberlin, O., and Janesville,
Wis. From Janesville the family moved to
Evanston, which has since been known as
the Willards’ home suburb. Miss Willard
was a graduate of North Western university
and took the degree of A. M. from Syra-
cuse university. She was for four years
professor of natural science at the North-
Western Female college, one year preceptor
at the Genesee, Wesleyan seminary, Lima,
N. Y., two years traveled abroad studying
continental languages and the fine arts; in
1871 became president of the Woman’s col-
lege and professor of aesthetics in North-
Western university; in 1874 corresponding
secretary of the W. C. T. U., in 1877 was
associated with Mr. Moody in evangelistic
work in Boston, in 1878 was president of
the W. C. T. U. in Illinois and editor of
the Chicago Daily Post, and in 1878 was
mad[-]president of the National W. C. T. U.
“In 1887 Miss Willard was elected presi-
dent of the Woman’s Council of the United
States, formed from the confederated soci-
eties of women, and in the same year she


was elected to the general conference 
of the Methodist Episcopal church. In 1889 she 
was chosen to the oecumenical conference of 
the same church by the Rock River con- 
ference, but her name was thrown out by 
the board of control because she was a wo- 
man. She was the originator of the peti- 
tion against the alcohol and opium trade, 
started on a tour around the world, and to 
be presented to all governments. She was 
from the first one of the directors of the Wo- 
man’s Temperance Publishing association 
and also one of the board of directors of the 
National Temperance hospital of the Tem- 
perance temple. 
	“Miss Willard was sometimes called 
“America’s uncrowned queen.” Besides 
the multifarious duties connected with the 
presidency of the world’s and national tem- 
perance organizations, books, magazines, 
articles, tracts and editorials followed in 
quick succession from her busy brain. Even 
during her year and a half of enforced ‘rest’
her vitalized touch continued to be felt in 
every department of the W. C. T. U. work.”


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	THE thirtieth annual convention of the 
National American W. S. A. opened in the
Columbia Theatre at Washington, D. C.,
on the morning of Monday, Feb. 14. Miss
Anthony occupied the chair. In her intro- 
ductory address she described the first wo-
man’s rights convention at Seneca Falls
fifty years ago. A small old fashioned
round table stood on the stage of the the-
atre, draped with an American flag. Miss
Anthony said:
	“On this table the original declaration of
equal rights was written, at the house of the
McClintocks. The five women who wrote
it were all Quakers except Mrs. Stanton.
They did not dare to sign their names but
published the call anonymously. They
worked around the table and hunted up the
nineteen grievances It is worth noticing
that the demands which raised such a hue
and cry of ridicule fifty years ago are nearly
all conceded today.”
	The roll call showed representatives from
twenty-four State societies.


MISS MARIE CORELLI, who has recently
been obliged to undergo a severe operation,
wishes it to be widely known that the sur-
geon to whose skill she owes her life is a
lady, Bravo! brave and dainty little wo-
man of genius. The nonsensical notion
that women will not trust women in medi-
cine and surgery is abundantly disproved
by the hundreds of operations performed in
the New Hospital for Women, which is of-
ficered entirely by female medical prac-
tioners. But of course no record is kept of
the women who consult lady doctors in pri-
vate practice, and it is a capital advertisement
when it is made known that an eminent
woman has been willing to trust a difficult
operation on herself to a lady surgeon. Mrs.
Scharlieb M. D. was Miss Corelli’s sur-
geon.—Woman’s Signal, London, Eng.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN’S SIGNAL.

(Editorial)
	MRS. RENTOUL ESLER generally writes
so justly and sensibly that I am sorry to
find signed by her pen the following ob-
servations:
	“A woman’s triumph in any practical call-
ing must always depend, in a measure, on
her youth where she plays a public part.
Does she sing? Does she act? Let youth
wane and her chances go with it. Were
positions ecclesiastical and legal open to
her, the result would be the same. Aver-
age abilily, with very good looks, will go
far; great abilities, with a bad appearance,
will in the case of a woman effect little in
the open. It is so human to regard woman
from a spectacular point of view, that age in
her wears some aspect of the ludicrous. An
old woman in the pulpit, on the platform,
in legal wig and gown, would evoke laugh-
ter. It is inevitable.”
			*	*	*
	So far from being inevitable that a wo-
man whose youth has waned shall be re- 
garded as ludicrous, it is happily not at all
true. It is the case that in the abstract the
phrase “an old woman” is used as a term of
contempt, and against this use every wo-
man who respects her sex should wage un-
ceasing war. No one in my presence ever
uses the term “an old woman” as a phrase
of scorn without being remonstrated with;
and when made to perceive what it really is
that they are saying—that age and woman-
hood combined are contemptible—most per-
sons admit that the phrase is not to be
justified, and will generally promise not to
use it again in that sense; but here is Mrs.
Esler actually endeavoring to justify an at-
tempt to regard as despicable the union of
these two honorable facts, and declaring on
her own account that age when combined
with womanhood is inevitably ludicrous!
That such an idea should exist so long as
women are regarded from the sexual point
of view is natural—an old woman from the
harem point of view is worse than useless.
But we European women have minds and
souls; and amongst us so much admirable
work is done by women who have entirely
passed that phase of life, that to continue
to use the phrases about age in women be-
longing to less enlightened times and cus- 
toms is a mistake.
			*	*	*
	Besides, the assertion that Mrs. Esler
commits herself to is nothing less than
practically absolutely untrue. Aged wo-
men do not “inevitably” receive ridicule.
There is a beauty that goes with youth, but
there is a beauty that comes with age, and
if both men and women too seldom succeed
in attaining the latter beauty, it is because 
in either case the life has been narrow and
cramped, or the expression has been dis-
figured by the continued indulgence of evil
tempers or mean thoughts. Age in itself
is venerable, and every right-minded per-
son feels it to be so. When it implies long
experience in wisdom and long practice in
goodness it will never be contemptible nor
will it look so. Many and many a woman
who in her youth had no pretensions to
girlish beauty becomes a handsome old lady
by virtue either of the continued use of her
intellect, or by her motherly cares or devel-
opment that they have given both to her
judgment and her affection.
			*	*	*

[Column 2]
To take a very illustrious example. 
Queen Victoria has no beauty of the com-
mon kind, but if Mrs. Esler has ever seen
Her Majesty (as I have done many times)
she must know that nothing can be farther
from the truth than describing the public
appearances of this aged woman as "ludi-
crous.” The remarkable dignity, the ele-
vated grace that are diffused around the per-
son of the Queen—old, short, stout, plain
though she be—are the most striking testi-
mony to the power of a life spent in a noble
way to give beauty of its own kind, and an
aspect than which nothing can be less ludi-
crous, to an old woman. The only person
whom I have ever asked to speak on a Wo-
man Suffrage platform solely on the ground
of her looks was Mrs. Margaret Bright
Lucas, who must have been well on to-
wards sixty when I employed this argument
as a reason why she should speak at suf-
frage meetings. Mrs. Lucas declared that
she was no speaker, and I said to her “That
does not matter; just stand up a little while
and let them look at you,” for I saw that
the beauty of high thoughts in her mind
through many years of life had so stamped
her face and her whole person with dignity
and sweetness that her mere presence would
have value in pleading such a cause. Again,
we have been in my home for the last week
or two in continual admiration of the beauti-
ful countenance of Miss Frances Power
Cobb at the age of seventy, as shown in a
photograph which she has kindly given to
my daughter. The first woman whom I
(when I was perhaps fourteen) ever heard
speak on a public platform was the late
Clara Lucas Balfour, who was probably
then between sixty and seventy, and who
looked the embodiment of wisdom and dig-
nity as she sat beside a table and quietly in-
terested an audience of several hundreds in
a very large hall for over an hour At the
Woman’s Congress at Chicago, every hall
was crammed with eager crowds when it
was announced that Susan B. Anthony
aged seventy-one, was going to speak.
Elizabeth Fry was over fifty when she was
called to her chief work—did she inevitably
excite redicule? Was “the Mother of the
Salvation Army” laughable in the pulpit?
Nay but age added power and honor to
each! It is by no means true then that
age in a woman, even when seen on the
platform itself, evokes laughter, or that it
is inevitably ludicrous for a woman to have
passed her youth; to say this kind of thing
ought to have been left to men who write
sporting papers for Sunday issue.
 			*	*	*
	Statements of this kind take on a sort of
personal interest when one has just had (as
I have) a forty-third birthday. One does
not know exactly what is the age at which
Mrs. Esler counts the inevitably ludicrous
age to set in. but assuredly I have no ex-
pectations or intentions of either forsaking
the platform or being ridiculous at present!
The professions that she chooses to name
are the two in which youth is particularly
precious—on the stage the actress loses
position as soon as she gets too old to repre-
sent youthful heroines, since youth is the
period of the ordinary stage romance; and
on the concert platform, the voice that is
all-important loses something, after a time,
by diminished freshness; yet is it not the
case that Ellen Terry and Adelina Patti,
both women over fifty, are even there the
most popular, the most highly paid and fol-
lowed of their class of workers? Nor do

[Column 3]
the far older women of the stage itself who
submit to take parts suitable to them be-
come ludicrous—how charming, for in-
stance, was Mrs. Sterling when she was
nearer seventy than sixty! No, no! Age
is not inevitably ludicrous in a woman!
			*	*	*
	This is not to deny the power of youth,
however. Like Ibsen’s hero in “The
Master Builder,” middle-aged people must
always respectfully and half fearfully “hear
the younger generation knocking at the
door.” We must all recognize the im-
portance of the adhesion to any work of
those whose powers are fresh and unworn,
and whose share of life will probably
stretch through the coming years long after
the grass grows green over the graves
where the holders of the place and power of
today will be silent and impotent for fur-
ther service. There is a charm in the
springtime of life that we all feel and own.
Especially is this true of public work.
Tenderly do we regard the young people
who seem ready to lend their growing
strength to the causes and efforts that we
have carried on for long years—to catch up
the banner that we feel must drop from our
wearied grasp, and who do not fear to at
once take their course, though it be up the
Hill Difficulty, to our cherished goal, not-
withstanding the attractions of the flowery
meads in which they might linger and play
a little longer. Prophetic hope, sympathy
for toil and danger that we know too well
and see them brightly and unconsciously
facing, joy in the beauty of their unworn
freshness—all this we their elders must feel.
As Mrs. Browning says—

		Great men who foreknew
Their heirs in art, for art’s sake have been glad,
And bent their old white heads as though un-
	crowned,
Fanatic of their pure ideals still,
Rather than of their laurels which were gained
With some less stalwart effort of the will.
			*	*	*
	So, dear girls, beautiful in your youthful
bloom, who care for any work or who are
laboring to obtain excellence and do credit
to your own and your sex’s abilities in any
direction, your effort is gladly appreciated,
without its being admitted that your grand-
mothers are “necessarily ludicrous,” or that
you will become so as soon as your youth is
past. True it is that in many occupations
young people have the preference in ob-
taining employment; they are stronger in
body, more tractable in mind, and likely to
become more and more useful for years on-
ward, instead of pretty soon wearing out
and growing a burden on an employer’s
kindness and consideration. But this pain-
ful fact applies to men as well as to women
and has nothing to do with the loss of at-
tractiveness in looks, nor does it generally
occur in the case of intellectual or highly
skilled employments, but only in those in
which experience gives little of no increase
of capacity. For instance, in our own do-
mestic experience, few of us would care to
engage a new housemaid over forty, be-
cause of the thoughts above mentioned; but
we should not hesitate to take a well recom-
mended cook of that age and a good deal
more, because her probably increased ex-
perience would counter-balance any such
disadvantages. The moral is for young peo-
ple to try to select and rise in occupations
in which brains and experience are more
valuable than looks and mere smartness of
muscular movement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THOU HTS ON THE OLD AND NEW YEAR
______________________________________
THE old year has departed its freight of joy and
		pain,
Its changes and its chances will ne’er return again
In the sepulchre of Time 'til laid with other
	years,
And in memory alone remains its smiles and
	tears.
There is no resurrection of years once past and
	gone,
No recalling wasted hours, they too, for aye have
	flown,
Ours only is the present in which to do and dare,
The future none can tell and perchance we may
 	not share.
Then grasp the precious present, use nobly each
today, 
Short retrospect is wisdom, too much is vain de-
	lay,
While we bewail our errors, our ignorance and
	sin,
The brave are in the battle and many a conflict
	win.
Then sit not idly dreaming, be a worker in the
	strife,
Fill up each day with all that tends to make an
	ideal life,
Then, if permitted to remain to greet another
	year,
We’ll bid Farewell to ’98 without regret or tear.
							NELLIE.


EXPECTANCY

LET not the arms of expectancy,
Fold me in embraces of ecstacy,
That proves to be on’y a fantasy—
That fills my heart with a vacancy,
'T would long in its woeful exigency,
To soar to a clime of complacency,
And there heal the heartfelt discrepancy,
By love, which completes all deficiency,
And brightens the chain of dependency,
And over all things gains ascen[-]ency.
Think not there’s a dearth of pudency,
Because of a want of potency.
Bnt trust and believe in my fervency,
For therein rests all my quiescence C.
	HYACINTH.
Feb. 21, 1898.

FAREWELL.
The solemn thought which slumbers in my soul,
Of pain, despair, unhappiness,
Is born of that sad word.
The beams which heretofore have shed their
radiant gleams,
Have sunk to rest;
And in their place a shadowy darkness lurks,
That bids me long for what can never be.
Forgetfulness.
No word responsive to my least desire,
Softens the parting pang;
The oft times sundered thread of hope.
Is riven once again,
Farewell.
	HYACINTH.
Feb. 22, 1898.


A POMPOUS solicitor was one day called
upon at his office by a somewhat younger
member of the profession, who asked his
opinion on a certain point of law. The
elder gentleman drew himself up and said,
“I generally get paid for what I know!”
“Oh very well,”: the other replied taking a
half sovereign from his pocket—“tell me all
you know and give me three and fourpence
change."


U. W. P. C.
THE U. W. P. C. met by appointment
on the evening of Jan. 31, 1898, in the
pleasant parlors of Mrs. Belle Bunnell.
Prayer was offered by Lucy A. Clark. The
roll call was responded to by sentiments
from Goethe. Under unfinished business
to a former motion that each member fur-
nish a cup, saucer, plate and spoon, an
amendment was made that a glass tumbler
be added and that they be taken to the
“Exponent” office before Feb. 28.
	Mrs. Camilla C. Cobb and Mrs. Clarissa
S. Williams were accepted as members of
the club. A letter from Mrs. Lulu Lee
Steele, secretary of the Educational com-
mittee of the U. W. P. C., was read and a
motion was carried that the president of the
club appoint three members as an educa-
tional committee—Dr. Orielle Curtis, Helen
V. Kimball and Hattie Harker were accord
ingly appointed. The by-laws of the club
were read by the secretary and discussed by
the members. The secretary also read a
letter from Mrs. Martha Burgess Jennings
in which was offered the suggestion that
the club join the General Federation of
Clubs; discussion thereon followed after
which a motion was carried to the effect
that the U. W. P. C. join the General
Federation of Clubs. Mrs. I. Cameron
Brown was elected delegate to the General
Federation of Clubs to be held in Denver
the coming June, Rachel Miller was elected
alternate.
	The program opened with a song sweetly
rendered by Mrs. Maggie Bassett. A very
complete paper on Germany was read by
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox. A selection on the
guitar and mandolin was delightfully ren-
dered by Mrs. Belle Bunnell and her son,
Mr. Mark Bunnell. “Notable German
Men” was read by Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan
and "Notable German Women" by Mrs.
Hattie Harker. Mrs. Camilla C.Cobb sang
charmingly in German and Mrs. Belle Bun-
nell recited “The Earl King” in the Ger-
man language.
	The secretary read the programme for
the next meeting to be held at the home of
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 75 Center St. The min-
utes of the meeting were read and with two
corrections accepted. Benediction by Mrs.
E. B. Wells. Delicate German refreshments
were served, a pleasant finale to a delightful
evening.
					M. A. J. LAMBERT, Sec.


APPRECIATION.

Editor Exponent.
	I HAVE had the pleasure of a casual peru-
sal of your book of poems entitled “Mus-
ings and Memories..” and although unsoli-
cited allow me to say in brief, that the com-
mon eulogy that it “fills a long felt want”
but faintly expresses my appreciation of
your musing and ever reflecting, useful
mind. Your dedication though brief is a
volume in itself. That spirit of Elijah, so
to speak, that binds kindred “for all the
years to come,” I fear is too little appreci-
ated by many Latter-day Saints, in fact I
much question whether any of us fully
comprehend the greatness of that eternal
union by adoption to the fountain of our
being; and as to the world, although they
are inspired to look after the records of their
dead, as a rule they know not why.
	Your work is an everyday home compan-


ion adapted to all ages and conditions and
particularly interesting to the young and
hopeful, of all ages of those who in the hour
of trial need comfort to give them strength
to persevere in the right under the most ab-
ject circumstances.
	Speaking personally the first line of the
first poem carried me back and was a re-
minder of many scenes of my childhood
and rambles “in the meadows where the
cowslips spring,’’ in fact those cowslips were
the incentive to my roving through the
green meadows in anticipation of a deli-
cious dish of greens for dinner. 
	But I must leave this subject lest some of
your readers suspect that I am longing for
the “leeks and onions of Egypt” well they
grow down there too and of course I
thought of them and how in my promen-
ades I mistook a young elebone for the
former, and but for a neighbor’s child pass-
ing just as I was stooping to pluck it I
should have eaten the poisonous herb and
not been here to relate the incident nor how
much I think of your very interesting and
instructive, work. It commends itself to all
who love the muses.
	A sixty-five year old Latter-day Saint.
						DANIEL TYLER.
Beaver City, Utah, Feb. 9, 1898.


ANN DILLWORTH BRINGHURST.

Dear Sister Wells:
	IT has been the will of our Heavenly
Father to call home our beloved sister,
Ann Dillworth Bringhurst.
	She was born on Feb. 12, 1812, in Ches-
ter county, Penn., and came to Utah with
John Taylor’s company in 1847; moved to
Springville with her husband, ex-Bishop
William Bringhurst, in 1860, where she
has lived ever since. She was the mother
of seven children, five of whom are still
living.
	Coming to Utah with the pioneers the
deceased endured all the hardships and
privations necessary to the opening of a
new country, and then moving south she
experienced many difficulties in building up
the home in which she spent so many hap-
py days. She was chosen president of the
Relief Society and held the position for
years. She was always ready to assist the
poor and needy, and many are the good
deeds recorded to her.
	Sister Bringhurst left this earthly exis-
tence for a higher sphere at 3 o’clock Tues-
day morning Jan. 25, 1898. By her death
we lose one of our beloved members, but 
we feel to say, she has gone to meet kind
friends on the other side and will await our
coming.
	Relief Society of 2nd ward, Springville.


First friend: “So he married in haste?
Did he repent at leisure?” Second friend:
“No—he repented in haste too!”
	A JUDGE of the Bombay High Council,
who is pompous in manner and never for-
gets that he is a judge, was walking up and
down the platform of a small railway sta-
tion just before taking his seat in the train.
At that moment a perspiring Englishman
rushed onto the platform and said to the
judge, “Is this the Bombay train?” The
judge coldly remarked, “I am not the sta-
tion master.” The other man at once re-
torted, “Then confound you sir, why do
you swagger about as if you were?”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1898.


THE PRESENT INDICATIONS.

	THE times are replete with news of crime,
disaster and war cry from various quarters of
the earth, and though here in Utah there is
less of the confusion that seems so apparent
in many places, yet we doubt not Utah will
have more or less that will be momentous,
and that will require wisdom and good
judgment to withstand. Some people are
really of the opinion that there will be war
in the United States, or on its borders, in
which the country will be obliged to parti-
cipate. The condition of Cuba does seem
deplorable and naturally one would think
that this country should send help and re-
lief if not wholly to espouse her cause.
Clara Barton has started for the scene of
the disaster and is well qualified to under-
take the work of relieving the sufferers as far
as human aid and woman’s tender minis-
tration can alleviate pain. Meantime the
United States is sending two naval ships to
the island with provisions for the sufferers.
The supplies were furnished by the New
York Cuban Relief Society.
	The various opinions concerning the
Maine seem to be resolving themselves into
one view which some took from the begin-
ning, that it was accidental, which cer-
tainly is a charitable construction to put
upon a very serious matter.
	The trial and conviction of Emile Zola has
turned the heads of half the people in Paris
—now that he has actually been sentenced
it is to be hoped they will cease their up-
roar and that peace may prevail, at least for
a time.
	But that there will be peace altogether is
too much to expect, for the Scriptures must
be fulfilled and also the prophecies of mod-
ern prophets. It is really refreshing, how-
ever, that as the Spring opens prosperity
heightens for the people who have risked
their lives in the gold regions of Alaska;
but it seems strange to state that thousands
of women are preparing to go to the Klon-
dike district as soon as Spring opens. Far
better would it be to stay at home and fol-
low some domestic employment such as
sericulture which is sure to bring safe re-
turns for labor—than to risk life and limb
for fabulous gold—which is really more
like a fable than a real fact, whereas it is
known that silk in a salable condition is al-
ways marketable. It does not appear
natural that women should be gold hunters
but to raise silk worms and reel silk has
always been remunerative, ever since the
fabric became known.
	It is time now that those who wish to en-
gage in this industry should begin to make
preparations and be ready for a start when
the Spring opens. There are thousands of
mulberry trees in the State and the leaves
might be utilized to good advantage; and
idleness is rampant in the towns and cities.
Even men need not be ashamed of this
employment, it is quite as much in their
line as tailoring and many other things;
but it does require thought and investiga-
tion and now is the time to begin to study
the art of raising silk worms. Several
books have been published by those who
were desirous of encouraging this industry
and are given away. The Utah Silk Com-
mission have some published recently which
can be obtained on application, and there
are a hundred or more in this office which
we have permission to distribute.


[Column 1]
EIGHTY YEARS AND MORE.

	MRS. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON has
published a book of reminiscences of her
long and eventful life under the taking title
of “Eighty Years and More.” Mrs. Stan-
ton has dedicated the book to Susan B.
Anthony, her steadfast friend for half a
century.
	The author’s vivid descriptions of
places and people as well as incidents are
given in a charming style and true to nature
and to facts, told in such a characteristic
way that one is impressed with the matter
because it is so natural as to appeal direct to
the heart of the reader,
	Mrs. Stanton was born at Johnstown, N.
Y., and was the daughter of Daniel Cady,
a distinguished lawyer and judge—and who
was elected to Congress the year of the little
Elizabeth’s birth. In the book she writes of
the fact thus: “Perhaps the excitement of
a political campaign, in which my mother
took the deepest interest, may have had an
influence on my prenatal life and given me
the strong desire that I have always felt to
participate in the rights and duties of
government.”
	Mrs. Stanton’s mother was Margaret
Livingston, the daughter of Colonel James
Livingston who was active in the war of the
Revolution, and was stationed at West
Point when Arnold made the attempt to be-
tray that stronghold into the hands of the
enemy. “In the absence of General Wash-
ington and his superior officer he took the
responsibility of firing into the Vulture, a
suspicious looking British vessel that lay at 
anchor near the opposite bank of the Hud-
son river. It was a fatal shot for Andre the
British spy, with whom Arnold was then
consummating his treason.” The vessel
thus disabled hastened away leaving Andre
with his papers to be captured while Arnold
made his escape through the lines before
his treason was suspected.
	Mrs. Stanton’s chapter on Motherhood is
one of the sweetest in her book, so perfectly
natural that every mother who has had a
similiar experience, (and there are many)
will read it with intense interest and say
“exactly so.” All along the pages are
names familiar to the public—poets, philos-
ophers, heroes, editors, reformers both men
and women. One chapter devoted to
Susan B. Anthony is delightfully full of the
originality so like this beautiful Quaker
spinster. Mrs. Stanton quotes Lord Bacon’s
saying of unmarried men and adds it is
equally applicable to women, and gives this
grand culmination to the thought:

[Column 2]
	“The world has ever had its vestal vir-
gins, its holy women mothers of ideals
rather than men; its Marys, as well as its
Marthas, who, rather than be busy house-
wives, preferred to sit at the feet of divine
wisdom, and ponder the mysteries of the
unknown. All hail to Maria Mitchell,
Harriet Hosamer, Charlotte Cushman, Alice
and Phebe Carey, Louisa Alcott, Dr. Elizabeth
Blackwell, Frances Willard and Clara Bar-
ton! All honor to the noble women who
have devoted earnest lives to the intellectual
and moral needs of mankind!”
	Mrs. Stanton describes graphically her
“First speech before the Legislature,” read-
ing it to her father, his views, his wonder
at her pathetic periods knowing her own,
life had been a happy one, comments of the
newspapers, ridicule of men and women,
frivolous objections, the divine patience re-
quired to reply, and so on. “On one oc-
casion when addressing the legislature some
of the ladies in congratulating me, inquired
in a deprecating tone, ‘What do you do
with your children?’ ‘Ladies,’ I said, ‘it,
takes me no longer to speak than you to
listen; what have you done with your chil- 
dren while you have been sitting here? But
to answer your question I never leave my
children to go to Saratoga, Washington,
Newport, or Europe, or even to come here.
They are at this moment with a faithful
nurse at the Delevan House, and having
completed my mission we shall return home
together.”
	One of Mrs. Stanton’s remarks regarding
American women may strike home to young
women, she says: “When I see so many of
our American women struggling to be
artists, who cannot make a good loaf of
bread or a palatable cup of coffee I think of
what Theodore Parker said when art was a
craze in Boston. ‘The fine arts do not in-
terest me so much as the coarse arts, which
feed, clothe, house and comfort people. I
would rather be a great man like Franklin
than a Michael Angelo—nay, if I had a son
I should rather see him a machanic, like
the late George Stephenson in England’
than a great painter like Rubens who only
copied beauty.”
	Mrs. Stanton in commenting upon her
birthday celebration in New York City at
eighty years did not forget among other
gifts the one from the women of Utah, the
onyx and silver ballot box and the accom-
panying address. There are so many ex-
cellent things in the book that all women
and men too should read, that we feel sure
the volume will have a large sale. The
portraits are very interesting and for the
comfort of elderly people we are happy to
state the type is large and clear. The book
contains 468 pages and eleven portraits. It
is dedicated to Susan B. Anthony. We have
not perused it half enough yet but have
already, though only skimming through its
pages, noticed many charming paragraphs,
and withal its simple, chatty style recom-
mends it most pleasantly without further en-
comuim.


SOCIAL AND DELIGHTFUL.

	MRS. C. F. WILCOX entertained at her
home in this city a rather large party of
ladies (perhaps sixty) in honor of her
mother, Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson, who
on that day reached her sixtieth anniver-
sary. It was refreshing to meet socially so
many who for years had been familiarlly
associated and to converse upon the vari-


ous experiences and incidents which make
the chapters of each one’s life of special
interest to those near and dear by ties of
friendship and sisterhood. Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne gave some interesting remin-
iscences of early days and of Joseph the
Prophet. The famous musician, Prof. J.
McLellan, gave on the piano Ave Maria
and an air from the Bohemian Girl, also an
"Inspiration." Prof. Wm. Done also play-
ed some of Beethoven. Camilia C. Cobb sang
in her sweet way the old song "Then you’ll
remember me." Lula gave the poetical
tribute to Mrs. Stevenson given below and
also recited another of her poems entitled
"My Father." Mrs. Minnie J. Snow sang
sweetly in a plaintive fashion "Far Away."
	Mrs. Wilcox read from Mrs.Wells’ poems
"The Dear Old Garden." There were very
dainty refreshments elegantly served and
highly enjoyed, and the hostess gave us
quite a display of old-fashioned capes of
muslin embroidery and other similar arti-
cles of fine needlework.
	Mrs Stevenson was the recipient of pro-
fuse and sincere congratulations and pretty
presents, tokens of affection and love, also
many good wishes and bouquets of violets,
carnations and roses. The writer adds her
congratulations to the many others wishing
her every joy and comfort possible for mor-
tals in this probation and eternal happiness
hereafter when sorrow and pain are no
more and we enter with our dear ones gone
before upon the life immortal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.

ON HER SIXTIETH BIRTHDAY, FEB. 8, 1898.
Sixty years! And still so active;
	Trudging cheerfully about;
Making Gospel Truth attractive,
	By dispelling gloom and doubt.
This, today, we witness here,
In your presence, sister dear.
Exercising faith and meekness,
	Hopeful ever—doubly blest;
Charity for other’s weakness—
	First and greatest, last and best;
In your life all these we find,
Sister well beloved and kind.
Your affectionate friend,
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


AN INTERESTING PARTY.

	At the elegant residence of Mrs. Priscilla
Jennings on Thursday February 10, there
was a delightful gathering of old friends
and acquaintances. The company was in
cordial sympathy not only in feeling but
upon the topics of the day, and it reminded
the writer very much of social gatherings in
the past at some of the familiar haunts
which Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee in one
of her sweet poems says "Where the old
friends meet." Mrs. Jennings has been
famous for many years for entertaining and
on this last occasion, those who were favor-
ed to be present found her the same digni-
fied, genial hostess as ever. As has been
said previously by an able newspaper man
in the daily papers, the sweet, peaceful spir-
it that prevailed gave the special charm
that all seamed to realize. The presence of
Presidents Woodruff George Q. Cannon
and Lorenzo Snow gave an inspiration to
the party and added greatly to the spiritual
enjoyment.
	It was indeed "A feast of reason
and a flow of soul."


Elder George D. Pyper in his origin-
al charming way sang several songs, "O
Happy Day," "There is Sunshine in my
Soul," "Mona," and "Not Half has ever
been Told," which were tenderly sym-
pathethetic and Mrs. W. W. Riter gave
two ballads, one that went home to the
hearts of all who listened "The Old Oaken
Bucket." Miss Dwyer favored the com-
pany with two or three negro ballads in a
quaint, characteristic fashion, and Brother
Pyper towards the close of the party render-
ed the hymn by Eliza R. Snow, "O My
Father" the guests joining in after the first
verse. President Woodruff spoke a few
minutes congratulating Mrs. Jennings and
blessing her and her household. His words
were full of intense feeling and were as a
warning voice to all Israel to take heed to
counsel and cherish the Gospel as revealed
in the latter days. President George Q.
Cannon followed in a similar strain. All
present must have felt the power and in-
tense spiritual force of the remarks of these
men of God.
	The repast was delicate and delicious and
very gracefully served, the elegant china,
glass and silver, the snowy linen, the fra-
grance of rare and beautiful flowers all gave
added charms to the refreshments. Conver-
sation was general and many were the sin-
cere and earnest encomiums of praise upon
the hostess and her assistants of her own
family.
	Such delightful intercourse helps to cheer
life’s somber pathway, and not only the
guests but the hostess herself will feel the
refreshing and uplifting influence of such
company amid such surroundings. And
when Mrs. Jennings goes abroad as we un-
derstand she expects to do soon, she will
remember with satisfaction the happiness
she gave to others in her luxurious home in
Zion, and they will recall the visit with
pleasure and a fervent blessing and a prayer
upon her way.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretary of each Stake organization
of the Relief Society will please send statis-
tical and financial report of her respective
Stake for the year 1897, as soon as possible
to the General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton, Salt Lake City. Branches of
the Relief Society not included in any of the
Stakes of Zion will also send annual reports
so that the secretary may be able to prepare
a complete and correct report of the Society
in good time for the April conference 1898.

	STATE SENATOR Martha H. Cannon who
went to Washington, D. C. by special in-
vitation of the officers of the National
American W. S. A. to attend the Semi-
Centennial celebration of the Woman’s
Rights convention held in Seneca Falls,
New York State, 1848, left this city Feb. 14
and arrived in good time (no doubt) for the
opening session. She had been notified by
the corresponding secretary, Rachel Foster
Avery, that she was appointed on the com-
mittee to speak before the Senate committee
and also at the convention. The Woman's
Journal of Boston gives us the only infor-
mation we have upon the subiect, and we
must await further facts until Dr. Cannon
returns to tell her own story or give us
newspaper comments. We learned incident-
ly that she left Washidgton for Philadelphia
after the convention was over.


THE George Washington Memorial
entertainment on Saturday evening Feb.
19, was a great success. The entertain-
ment was given at Major and Mrs Downey’s
residence 808 E. First South St. The
house is admirably adapted for entertaining,
spacious halls and rooms large and con-
nected with folding doors. The decora-
tions were simply superb and one could not
help feeling the enthusiasm that comes
from flags, stars and stripes, banners and
martial music, officers in uniform and all
the paraphernalia of military costumes.
Some of the ladies of the committee were in
the costume of 1776—with powdered hair,
feathers, high combs and rare old laces, and
under the canopy of very beautiful silk
flags shone with social brilliancy, making a
very pretty effect. In fact all the arrange-
ments seemed perfect in every detail. The
tables where refreshments were served were
very inviting and the ladies who did the
honors were charmingly attired and per-
formed the duties gracefully. In fact all
went off merrily and every one declared it
the most brilliant event of the season. The
music was par excellence, and there seemed
nothing wanting to make the whole affair
delightful to all participants. The com-
mittee are now assured of the financial suc
cess of the entertainment.


NOTICE.

	THE secretaries of the several branches of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake are
urgently requested to send in their reports.
The Relief Society conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th ward As-
sembly hall on March 19, 1898.
MARGARET Y. TAYLOR, Sec.
33 S. 1st West St.


THE CLEOFAN.

	ON Wednesday afternoon the Cleofan
was highly entertained by Mrs. Annette
W. Culmer who gave an interesting topic
on the life and character of Edmund Spen-
cer, also a bright and instructive paper on
the chief qualities and influences of his
poetry was read by Mrs. Cora Eldredge.
The club adjourned for one week.
	CLARA T. FELT, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, Saturday Jan. 22, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing "Welcome
best of all good meetings." Prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon. Singing "Jesus
the Giver." The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne in her opening remarks
stated that a very benevolent firm in the
city, viz. Walker Bros., are distributing a
large amount of flour and coal to the poor.
Said the business of the meeting consisted
in finding out how many poor were in each
ward.
	Brother Goddard who was present made
a few remarks. He noticed in the reports
made that the people were all acting in
unison with their Bishops.
	President Zina D. H. Young wished to
be guided by the holy Spirit, and said one
keynote of the Gospel was obedience. Said


[Column 1]
many of the faces here she had known
since childhood. Urged the sisters never
to neglect their prayers night or morning,
for then their hearts would be kept warm
within them and they would love one
another, and they would then have the
Spirit of the Lord. Said she could scarce-
ly realize that this Gospel had gone
throughout the world. We could only do
our duty today, we could not do it for to-
morrow; it was like feeding a little baby
just a teaspoonful of nourishment at a time.
She thought we did not realize near all the
blessings of the Gospel, and felt to thank
God that He inspired President Brigham
Young to organize these meetings, and
prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke of the com-
mencement of the new year and of the many
good resolutions that had been made, also
spoke on fault finding and said whenever
we felt like doing so we should go to the
Lord in humility and pray for them and for
ourselves; knew if we indulged in fault
finding, especially about the Priesthood in
authority, that it would lead to apostacy.
Thought it was a noble work to look after
the poor and to administer to them, and that
it would keep our hearts warm. God had
inspired these benovelant men to help the
poor, that it was His work. Said that she
had heard a Bishop say that notwithstand-
ing the hard times that now existed never
before had they been so well prepared to
look after their poor, and felt this was an
evidence that God was our help and Father
in time of need, even as He had promised
He would be. 
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said as she was
not here last meeting she wished us all a
happy and a prosperous New Year. Spoke
of a meeting she attended in West Bounti-
ful and said she had never in all her life
attended such a meeting. The Spirit of
the Lord was poured out to a great degree.
Said she felt a great anxiety for our young
children but still felt they would be cared
for and loved. Urged those who had but
one talent to make the most of it.
	Brother Goddard was very much pleased
by the remarks of the sisters. Spoke of the
signs of the times and of laying up wheat
and flour, and said that Brother George Q.
Cannon in their Sunday School meeting
had urged the brethren to preach the word
of wisdom, especially to the young people.
Sang “God moves in a mysterious way.”
	Sister Sarah Phelps said she felt there
were great things before us. She knew
that the spirit of repentance would be
poured out upon the rising generation.
Spoke in tongues, which was interpreted by
“Sister Zina.”
	President Horne thought we had had a
very good meeting, even if there were a
good many temporal things to attend to.
There was every help in the world for peo-
ple to live their religion; there were mis-
sionaries both abroad and at home, and
many kinds of meetings for people to know
what was right. Thought mothers did not
teach their children young enough to pray
and have faith in God. Said that instead
of the people being tried they were being
proven, spoke strongly on the signs of the
times and prayed that we might be faithful
and true to our covenants and to God.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks by
singing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Brother Goddard.	
			ZINA H. Bull, Sec.

[Column 2]
	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Feb. 5, 1898, President Horne presid-
ing. Singing “Now let us rejoice in the
day of salvation” Prayer by Counselor E.
Webb. Singing “Let those who would be
Saints indeed.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	President Horne hoped the sisters would
testify of the goodness of God, those who
testified of God He would bring up in re-
membrance before Him. Spoke of improv-
ing our talents, if we only had one we
should make the most of it, this was the
word of the Lord. There was not one of
the sisters if she had the Spirit of the Lord
and attempted to speak, no matter how lit-
tle she said, but that some one would be
benefited by it. Said she hoped that all
would feel free that we might have a good
time together.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown felt it was
good for us to meet together if only to
praise the Lord. She enjoyed so much
hearing President Horne speak and knew
she had a world of knowledge to impart by
which we were always benefited. Said her
heart was full of rejoicing for the blessings
of the Lord and thought we should always
try to live so that we might feel this way.
Said many of the dead for whom she had
officiated had appeared to her in dreams and
she knew they were pleased for what she
had done.
	Sister Ford said her heart was full of re-
joicing, and spoke of administering to the
poor; said those who gave to the poor
loaned to the Lord and felt to say God bless
those men who had so generously given to
the poor, also prayed God would bless all
who were here this afternoon.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and spoke of the goodness of
God to her. She loved her brothers and
sisters; the scriptures said when we loved
one another we had the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt it was not
right to let the precious moments go to
waste, referred to the hymn just sung “Let
those who would be Saints indeed,” said
never before had it struck her so forcibly,
thought there was a sermon in it and urged
all to read it. Said she felt much edified by
the remarks of President Horne, expressed
her anxiety for the young people and said
she heard Brother Andrew Jensen say that
the Scandinavians were forming an asso-
ciation to look after the young girls of their
nationality, thought this was a very worthy
object. Prayed that the Lord would help
us to remember what we had heard this
afternoon and referred to a prophecy of
Brother Heber C. Kimball wherein he said
that the time would come when we could
not pick up a paper which would not be
filled with terrible things which would
make our hearts sick. Thought the time
had indeed come.
	Sister Armeda S. Young spoke of the
class work of Sister Sorenson and the great
amount of good she was doing, the object
was the same as President Young advocated,
to study our bodies and make good mothers.
	Sister Carrie Kester urged the sisters to
attend these classes. Sister Phelps felt the
Lord was pouring out His Spirit upon His
daughters, and thought it was the young
men that needed to be labored with instead
of the girls.
	Sister Butterworth testified to the good-
ness of the Lord to her in raising her little
grand son from almost death. He was

[Column 3]
very ill but had been healed by the power
of the Lord, and felt very grateful for her
many blessings.
	Sister Carlhurst bore her testimony and
spoke very feelingly in regard to the pro-
tection of young girls who were compelled
to work out for their living, and urged the
sisters to use their influence with those who
hired girls to throw over them a mother’s
watch care.
	President Horne had enjoyed the beauti-
ful testimonies of the sisters. She thought
every one who hired help should have a
watch care over them; and knew there was
a great deal of iniquity abroad, but hoped
the time would come when such would not
be the case. 
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor C.
C. Cannon.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	ON the evening of Nov. 4, 1897, Sister
Kapala Pahupu departed this life in the
sixtieth year of her age. She died suddenly
without any apparent suffering.
	Deceased was a very faithful sister; at the
time of her death was a teacher in the 
Iosepa Relief Society, also an officer in the
Y. L. M. I. A.. She was president of the
Hilo Relief Society on the Sandwich Islands
until 1888, when she resigned her position
to emigrate to Utah, having lost both hus-
band and child on the islands and being
alone she made her home with
her sister, Mrs. Marla MaKaula and
her husband, from her arrival to the time of
her death. They assisted her in performing
her Temple work at Logan just previous to
coming with the first colony to Iosepa Aug.
28, 1889.
	Sister Kapala was in every way fully
prepared for death, and the loss to our little
settlement of one so faithful and true is
really the only regret we can feel. She
was strong and healthy up to the last and
seemed to enjoy attending a little garden of
her own in which she raised fine vegetables,
strawberries, melons and fruit and also
flowers; and she delighted to gather some
of the first and choicest and bring them as a
love offering to those she liked best. Many
a pleasant little surprise of this kind she has
brought us in the early summer mornings.
She was the most graceful swimmer I ever
saw.
	She attended all of the meetings punctu-
ally and was a logical and dignified speaker,
never missing the opportunity of bearing
her testimony or speaking on the principles
of the Gospel, yet was withal modest and re-
tiring. All who knew her loved her for her
worth, she was indeed one of earth’s noblest
women. She ever labored faithfully both
temporally and spiritually and had her nice
linen burial robes all ready and looked
when laid out just like one in a graceful
sleep. She was a fine needlewoman and
was one of the most diligent in working 
upon the pioneer quilt the Iosepa Relief
Society presented to President Woodruff
during his illness this last summer.
			EMILY G. CLUFF, Pres.
			ELLEN HALEMANU, Sec.


THE more we live for self the less we
shall find the value of existence; the more
we live for others and out of self, the great-
er will be the joy and satisfaction of living.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	JANETTE M’MURRIN DAVIS
   With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Sister Janette McMurrin Davis, who de-
parted this life March 24, 1897, at Clifton, Oneida, 
Idaho. She was born in Glasgow, Scotland, Dec.
23, 1854, and was the daug[h]ter of Joseph and Mar-
garet McMurrin, late of Salt Lake City. She
came to Uta[h] in 1856 and was married to Riley
Davis in 1872. She has been a resident of this 
place a number of years and has been a faith'ul
woman. holding the position of second counselor
in the Relief Society at two different times; she
also held the position of president at the time of
her death. 
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit
in his alwise providence to call from our midst
our beloved sister, be it
   RESOLVED, That we the members of the Clifton
Relief Society recognize in the death of our be-
loved and honored president the great loss of an
able and efficient officer, and a very devoted
Saint and colaborer in the cause of truth—
   RESOLVED, that we condole and deeply sympa-
thize with the bereaved husband and family in the
loss of a kind and affectionate wife and mother.
   RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory and
regard her virtues as ever worthy of emulation.

   She was a dear loving wife, companion and
mother in the highest and truest sense that mor-
tals are permitted to enjoy. Her sweet voice and
influence were a charm to those who associated 
with her. It was only necessary to be slightly
acquainted with her to love her.  Her genial
qualities will be rememebred by all of her friends,
and they can but mourn her loss and sympathize
with her bereaved family. She truly rests in
peace, freed from sickness and sorrow, pain and 
death; she is in the society of parents and chil-
dren that have gone before to await the morning
of a glorious resurrection of the just, when she
will again mingle with the Saints and help to
build up the holy city and temple of our God in
which it will be the happy lot of all the pure in
heart to be associated.
   Though we deeply mourn her loss we rejoice
that her spirit is liberated from its frail tenement,
and we will cherish her memory, for her good
deeds will live in the remembrance of all who have
at heart the welfare of Zion, and especially the
sisters who are uniting in associations for the ele-
vation of womankind[.]
   RESOLVED, That these resolutions be entered
in the Re[l]ief Society record; also that a copy be 
presented to the bereaved family and one sent to
the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.

	Mourn not for your wife dear brother,
	   You will meet her if you’re true
	To the cause of truth and virtue,
	    And your onward course pursue.

	Children mourn not for your mother,
	   For her home is now with God, 
	But strive to follow in her footsteps,
	   And ho[l]d fast the “iron rod.”

	Then bow to God and ask for comfort,
	   And that blessing you will gain;
	For your mother’s in His keeping,
	   And is free from earthly pain.
			ELIZABETH N. HENDERSON, 
							President.
			AMELIA J. DIXON,
			CHRISTINA ANDERSON,
						Counselors.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS

PARK CITY.
	BELIEVING our sisters would like to
know what their sisters are doing in Relief
Society work in this part of the State, I ap-
pend our annual report as follows:
On hand at last report..............$13.65
Total receipts for 1897.............515.70
	Total.......................$529.35
Disbursements—
To Church buildings..............$434 45
To the poor......................17.35

[Column 2]
To expenses.......................32.90
On hand..........................44.65
	Total.......................$529.35
	Of the above receipts we received from
the proceeds of a fair we held under the
auspices of the Relief Society, $393.05.
	Our society is in a favorable condition for
doing good work for the coming year, all
being as well as it appears now.
ELIZA HALES, Sec.
MARIAN, CASSIA CO., IDAHO.
	Although the Relief Society of Cassia
Stake has not been heard of through the
columns of your paper for some time, never-
theless they have been alive to their duties.
	At a conference just held at Oakley, as
also at the one held three months previous-
ly, the verbal reports of the various repre-
sentatives showed the members to be mani-
festing increased interest and diligence. A
number of the branches hold alternately
with the monthly testimony meetings what
we term a literary meeting, the exercises in
which call for more or less reading and
study on the part of the members.
	The statistical and financial reports read
at the last conference show a slow but
steady increase in both members and means,
also in the storage of wheat. There is not
much call for charitable work, some of the
wards report no poor among them.
	President Louisa Haight presided at the
conference. She and her counselors, H. E.
Tuttle and Ann Wilson, though all in poor
health, felt to praise the Lord for His good-
ness, and encourage the sisters in their work
of charity and mutual improvement. In
connection with others the meeting was ad-
dressed by Sister Avery of Castle Valley,
also by Brother Moroni Pickett of the Stake
presidency and Bishop John L. Smith of
Oakley.
LOUISA PICKETT, Rec. Sec.
	Feb. 20, 1898.
PROVO FOURTH WARD.
	THE annual meeting of the board of
managers of the Provo Fourth ward Relief
Society was held in the Society house on
Saturday February 3, 1898, at 10 a. m.,
President M. M. Watson presiding. In the
absence of the secretary Anna B. Selck was
chosen secretary pro tem.
	Minutes of Jan. 28, 1897, were read and
accepted, showing one hundred and five
officers and members enrolled, and twenty-
eight meetings held. The treasurer’s report
for the year ending February 1, 1898, was
then read, showing donations received in
cash, provisions and merchandise as follows:
Receipts $157.25; disbursments $124.25;
balance on hand $33.00; wheat 30 bushels.
	President M. M. Watson said she was
well pleased with the report and had en-
joyed her labors among the sick and needy
in the ward, and felt to encourage all to at-
tend the meetings during the present year.
	It was moved and seconded that the old
board be re-elected with the exception of
Sarah E. Cluff resigned. The officers that
comprise the board are as follows: Margaret
M. Watson, president; Mary M. Boyden,
first vice-president; Delia I. Booth, second
vice-president; Mary Boshard, secretary;
Anna B. Selck, assistant secretary; Mary
M. Boyden, treasurer; Jane B. Snyder,
Sophina Gee and Harriet E Bean, trustees.
Plans for the new year were adopted and
the meeting adjourned subject to call.
ANNA B. SELCK, Asst. Sec.

[Column 3]
VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE.
	THE annual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety convened in the Virgin City meeting
house Feb. 3, 1898. Meeting was called to
order by Sister Emma Hinton. President
Sariah Workman and her counselors, Emma
Hinton and Mary Spendlove were present,
also Counselor Charles Burk. After the
usual exercises of singing and prayer the
roll was called showing an attendance of
twenty-one; the secretary read the annual
report showing an average attendance of
eighteen. The treasurer then read her re-
port showing a little increase of property in
the past year. We have on hand some lit-
tle means necessary for burying our dead,
for we live in some very trying circum-
stances. We have no store to depend on,
and it is impossible to get what we want at
the right time.
	Brother Charles Burk was the first speak-
er. He said he felt grateful to the sisters
for the good they had done in the past, and
knew that the spirit of the Lord was with
them.
	President Workman and several other
sisters also spoke. Said they felt grateful
for the many blessings we have enjoyed.
We live in a little far off corner, but we try
to live for the hope that is within us; but
when one looks around and reads the news-
papers it makes one think that peace is
taken from the earth. And yet we are
supposed to be preparing for the coming of
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ; for we
believe that not only the Latter-day Saints
have faith in His near advent but the
whole Christian world seems to feel more or
less the spirit of the times, and that great
events are about to transpire and we hope
not to be found asleep, and if we are awake
we may be found among those who have
oil in their vessels and their lamps trimmed
and burning.
EMILY A. STRATTON, Sec.
LAIE OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.
Dear Sister:
	You will please find inclosed our Relief
Society report for the past year, and think-
ing that the readers of the “Exponent”
would be interested in hearing from this
part of the Lord’s vineyard, I take pleasure
in writing to you as nearly as possible what
we are doing.
	I am pleased to say that the work is pro-
gressing nicely, and I think our association
will compare favorably with others. We
find among the Hawaiian sisters many
faithful and energetic workers. They take
great interest in learning of things pertain-
ing to the Gospel and I have known some
of them to walk from three to eight miles to
attend meeting. Many of them are very
thoughtful in caring for the Elders who are
traveling on the adjacent islands, providing
food for them and attending to their wash-
ing.
	At present there are twenty-eight branch-
es, and as a rule meetings are held
weekly. We hold officers meeting the
second Saturday of each month. This day
is the special fast day for the missionaries
laboring here. The officers meeting is held
at our Mission house, and we instruct the
native sisters in regard to the Relief Soci-
ety work. We have a short program in
which we take up the principles of the
Gospel. Every two weeks visitors are sent
out to encourage the members to attend
their meetings, and once in six weeks I


send some of the leading sisters to the other
islands to visit them in their conferences,
and I hope that we missionary sisters may
be able to visit all the branches of the
society on the islands in the near future.
	At present their are five sisters on the
mission, myself, Sister Ella C. Berdno, Sis-
ter Tryphena B. Garff, Sister Elizabeth C.
Williams and Sister Jennie Patten Musser.
We are striving for a knowledge of the lan-
guage and endeavoring in our weak way to
teach the sisters here principles that will
elevate them. Besides our Relief Society
work we each have a class in the Sunday
School and assist in the Mutual Improve-
ment and the Primary work. We have our
temporal labors to attend to, and feel thank-
ful for having the privilege of spending a
portion of our time in assisting to roll on
this great work. We feel that we have
been greatly blessed in so doing.
	Any word of encouragement or instruct
tion from our leading sisters at home would
be gladly received by us. We receive
regularly your valuable and interesting
paper which is greatly appreciated by us.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
				ALICE R. WOOLLEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOME OF THE SECTS OF THE FIRST
			CENTURY. 
	AMONG the first we read of Epicurus. 
The Epicurians believed the world arose 
from chance; that the soul was mortal; that 
pleasure was sufficient to live for. 
	The Academics denied the possibility of 
arriving at truth and certainty; held it un-
certain whether God existed or not, or 
whether the soul was mortal or survived
the body. 
	The god of Aristotle was a bei [-] regard-
less of human affairs, such a god people had 
little reason to love or fear. 
	The god of the Stoics had a little more of 
majesty. He was described as a corporeal 
being and subject to fate. 
	Plato seems to have exceeded all the other 
philosophers in wisdom and reason. He
believed the world to be governed by an 
independent, powerful and intelligent God, 
and he taught men what to fear and what 
to hope for after death. Yet his doctrine 
rested on very slender foundations. 
	In Egypt arose another sect called the 
Eclectic. They held Plato in the highest 
esteem but they modified his doctrine and 
incorporated what they pleased from other
philosophers.
	Many other sects flourished in Palestine 
at the birth of our Savior. They were 
known under the names of Eseenes, Gali-
leans, Herodians, Nazarites, Scribes and 
Publicans. There was also the Jewish and
Samaritan. Yet the Jewish had lost much 
of its primitive character. In the New 
Testament we read of the Pharisees and the 
Sadducers. The Pharisees disregarded in 
ternal purity and sought for popular ap-
plause. The Sadducees discarded all future 
reward and punishments.
 	The Essenes, a fanatic and superstitious
tribe, made piety to consist in holy indo-
lence, and thus they severed themselves
from society. 
	Our Savior and His twelve apostles, the 
Christian church was founded, as we are 
aware, at Jerusalem, but the ambassadors 
of Christ traveled over a great part of the 
world. A number of churches founded by


them are mentioned in the Acts of the
Apostles.
   The history of these sects until the time
of our Savior is very obscure indeed, partly from the deficiency of ancient records, and 
partly from the ignorance and hostility of 
those who have written concerning them.
   After the decease of the apostles arose the 
Gnostics, who claimed ability to restore
to mankind the lost knowledge of the true
and Supreme God, and announced the over-
throw of that church which Christ and His
associates had set up. Thus we find that
different sects then existed as today,
and opinions were just as varied as now.
E.H.L.


ADDRESS.

UTAH MEMORIAL COMMITTEE.

   NEARLY one hundred years ago the great
American, George Washington, left a be-
quest to his country of $25,000, which sum
was to be expended in founding an Ameri-
can University. It was his desire that the
highest education of the youth of America
should be upon American soil under
American influences. He wished to found
a university where the highest education
should be given in the principles underly-
ing true statsmanship. The bequest was
made with the most careful directions as to
carrying out his intentions.
The money, perhaps through neglect was
lost, but the idea remains a perpetual leg-
acy and incentive to the whole people of
the United States. It was not only a duty
to the memory of Washington to make his
thought a reality, but our highest duty to
ourselves and rising generations to take ad- 
vantage of his wise forethought. On the 
22nd of February exercises of a patriotic
nature will be held in all the schools of
Utah. On that day when all hearts will be
turned to the great character which towers
above all others like the lofty mountain
peak above the valley, may not the rush of
grateful thought be crystalized into a good
deed which will erect an enduring monument
to the memory of Washington! The Utah
committee on the George Washington mem-
orial, duly organized under the national
committee, request that a collection of
small sums of money be taken up on that
day in the public schools. Large sums are
not wanted or asked for. The penny or
the nickel brings with it the interest of the
child, and every individual contributing
helps to make a broad foundation upon
which the university shall rest. We appeal
to parents and to teachers to help to make
the collection indicate the patriotic spirit of
the people of Utah. We confidently believe
that the response to this appeal will be uni-
versal, and rest our cause in the hands of
the citizens of the State.
M. B. SALISBURY,
	Chairman.
C. M. ALLEN,
	Vice-Chairman.
HESTER HARKNESS,
	Secretary.
E. B. WELLS,
	Press Representative.


To live in the presence of great truths, to
be led by permanent ideals—that is what
keeps a man patient when the world ignores
him, and calm and unspoiled when the
world praises him.


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a do lar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.

			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

		Midwifery Classes.

	Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference.
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study. 
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personally or by
letter with
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

		R.K.THOMAS

	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.

		The Leading Retail
		Cash House,

		R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

[handwritten on right side of page]
257

VOL. 26. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15 & APRIL 1, 1898. NOS. 20 & 21.


CONTENTS:
	A Strong Testimony—Jane Williams. A Sad
Occurrence—Phebe J. A lred. A New Granary
and Hal—Mary F. White. Madame Mountfo d.
An Evening with "Musings and Memories"—Ellis
R. Shipp. The Cleofan. The California Mission
—Ida M. Sarll. U. W. P. C. Relief Society En-
tertainment—Abby A. Piggott. Ladies’ Semi
monthly Meeting. In Memoriam. R. S. and P.
A. Reports.
	EDITORIAL:—The War Cry. F. Marion Craw-
ford. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY: Sister and Daughter—N. Never De-
spair—Martha S. Lippincott. Moanings—L. D.
Alder. Farewell to Thee—R. M. F  To Sister
L. M. Hart—Nancy Allred


For the Exponent.
SISTER AND DAUGHTER.

WITHIN the compass of these magic words,
What thoughts will crowd, and stir within the
heart!
Sweeter in tone than instrument or birds,
Although their tones oft bid rich echoes tart.
For there is music in a sister’s name,
And in her acts affection is enshrined;
Beloved at home, is all such ask of fame,
Where every wish and dream is intertwined!
Projects and loves and secrets not a few,
Are i[-]terchanged, yet sacred as is meet;
No friend though o d, no change how fresh or new,
Within the heart finds welcome half so sweet.
In infant years and childhood ever near.
Sisters—yet daughter, claiming mother love,
What ties so tender, what o life so dear,
Or who so looked for in the words above?
For mother, sister in that glorious sphere,
Preserve thou sacred ties which Love doth weld,
And heaven wou d be no heaven, I sadly fear,
If deathless circles ne’er the loved ones held!
Part of our life! we grow together here,
Sisters and daughters, mother—one, yet three,
And through eternal ages, it is surely clear,
Wherever one is, the rest will wish to be!
God has implanted in the depths profound,
That germ divine which links each soul to Him,
And loving makes us worthy to be crowned,
Amid that glory Ages cannot dim!
N.


NEVER DESPAIR.

WORK on e'en though the way be dark and drear,
And heavy clouds around us gathering,
Cause us to doubt success and fear despair,
Have faith, God holds in trust a better day,
And surely, sunshine is beyond the c ouds;
They soon will break and let the sunshine
	through;
A glorious vision then we'll surely see,
When peace and comfort all the world will find;
And rum no more shalf rule God's beauteous land.
Oh! how we'll sing our hallelujah then,
And make the glad world with the good news
ring.
Each one de[-]pairing weakens other's hope,
And makes it harder still to win the cause,
Fight on and never give a good cause up,
Until the battle we can win and shout,
A glorious victory for the cause of God.
I would not have you fight with sword or gun,
That is a barbarous way of olden times;


But God has taught us better, surer ways;
If we obey His orders and commands,
He then will teach us how to win His cause,
	God ne’er forsakes, if man will just believe,
Have faith and trust and work along with Him,
And then in time His cause is sure to win,
If we’ll but keep our shou der to the wheel,
With patience work until God sees the time
Has come, when we sha l victory proclaim.
But never lose our faith and cease to work;
For that would but delay the happy day,
When we can shout and make the whole air ring,
Glo y to God, our righteous cause is won.
MARTHA SHEPARD LIPPINCOTT.
Moo istown, N. J.


[Column 1]
A STRONG TESTIMONY.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	AFTER reading in the "Woman's Ex-
ponent" of the goodness of our Heavenly
Father manifested towards the women of
Utah, it causes my heart to long for the
time to come when I can be with them and
enjoy the same blessings. The Saints here
in England enjoy many blessings for which
they are very thankful, but they know
there are blessings in Zion that they cannot
have here.
	I belonged to the Church of England for
thirty years, and endeavored in my weak
way to follow out its teachings. I did not
have a strong enough foundation for my
faith, and hence it was too weak to bring
me joy and happiness. I remember how I
used to ponder over in my mind the time of
our beloved Savior and His Apostles, and
wonder to myself why we were not privi-
leged to enjoy the same blessings that they
enjoyed in those days. How strange! Is it
possible the Savior would bestow upon His
children in those days all these promised
blessings and then neglect us who are just
as devoted as they were? These thoughts
often passed through my mind and caused
me to entertain the idea that the church I
had belonged to for so long was not identi-
cal with the Church Jesus established while
here upon the earth.
	In consequence of this I began to feel
unsettled and wondered why such should
be the case. I then began to read and
pray, that I might learn something more of
the true church of Christ, and for over two
years I went from church to church in
search of the one that most resembled the
one established by the Savior. I continued
doing this until I became almost discouraged
but am thankful to say the hand of Provi-
dence was over me, and I was led to a fam-
ily of Latter-day Saints who invited me to
attend their meetings. This led to an in-
vestigation of what they taught, and in a
short time I learned the great reason for all
the different sects of Christianity being void
of the "gifts and blessings" that character-
ized the Primitive church. I learned of
the great apostacy that had swept over the
earth, and how the Lord in consequence of
this had taken from the midst of His people
the everlasting Gospel and all the gifts and
blessings which were enjoyed by those who

[Column 2]
complied with its principles.
	I remember how the remarks of the
Elders would impress themselves upon my
mind when refering to the restoration of
the Gospel and its gifts and blessings.
What faith true men have, I thought. They
promise me every blessing my heart has de-
sired for so many years past if I will go
down into the waters of baptism and re-
ceive a remission of my sins. They then
promise me the Holy Ghost by the laying
on of hands, which shall be my instructor
and comforter through life. These great
and glorious promises deserve my strict at-
tention. This was the first time in my life I
had ever been promised the same blessings
and privileges that were enjoyed by the
Former-day Saints, and I assure you my
heart leaped for joy. I almost feared the
promises too great to be true; but today I
have a testimony which I have received
from God in consequence of my throwing
aside my pride and obeying the sacred prin-
ciples of the Everlasting Gospel. The
power of the Priesthood manifested under
the hands of His authorized servants upon
my little children has been sufficient to con-
vince the whole world, if they would but
lay aside their prejudice and seek the Spirit
of the Lord to guide them into the only
true path of life and salvation.
	I remember of being so low in sickness
on one occasion that the doctor had
given me up to die, but the Elders came in
and laid hands upon me, and before their
hands were taken off my head all swelling
disappeared and the pain left me. Not
many weeks ago my husband met with a
serious accident while at work in the coal
pit, some of his bones being squeezed out of
place. People who saw him and under-
stood what he had passed through ex-
pressed themselves as believing him to be
in such a condition that he would never be
able to work any more. Again the power
of the Lord was manifested. Just as soon
as he was brought home the Elders laid
their hands upon him and anointed him
with oil; in a week he was back at work
again.
	I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the year 1880, and dur-
ing that time all the blessings promised me
by the Elders whom I first met have been
granted.
	May the blessings of the Lord shine up-
on the women of Utah, and make them
bright and shining lights is the prayer of
Your sister in the Gospel,
JANE WILLIAMS.
Lancashire, England, Feb. 28, 1898.


EVERY goal in England and Wales now
has a Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society
working in connection with it.
	THE REAL TROUBLE.—When her Majes-
ty the Queen was at Balmoral some time
ago she visited an aged cottager, and on
leaving said, “You will now, I hope, be no
longer afraid of me, and I shall expect you
to pay me a visit.” “Ah ma’am,” the old
woman replied, “its not yersel’ I’m fricht-
ened at; it’s them gran’ servants!”


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
A SAD OCCURRENCE.

Dear Sister Wells:
	WE are called upon to record a terrible
calamity that has befallen our little colony
in the sudden and dreadful death of our be-
loved sister, Agnes A. McDonald, wife of
Patriarch Alexander F. McDonald, who was
ruthlessly murdered by Mexicans on the
23rd of February last.
	Quite a number of settlers had gone to
Colonia Juarez, a distance of forty miles, to
attend the quarterly conference. She was
the post mistress of our colony and also
kept a small store, and it is supposed this
was what induced the wretches to commit
the horrible deed. She was a great deal of
the time the only occupant of the house,
though her son James lived just across the
street and other neighbors lived near.
	From the appearance of things the
wretches must have been watching her un-
til she retired, when crushing the window
in with an ax they leaped in, and from the
position she was found in it is supposed on
hearing the crash she sprang for the gun
(which she always kept hanging by the
bed) when the villians seizing her, threw
her back upon the bed and cruelly choked
her to death, then placed a  pillow over her
face and proceeded to go through every-
thing in the house and store room, taking
bolts of cloth, ready made shirts, overalls,
jumpers etc., and finding the box in which
she kept the cash, it being locked they took
it with them. In this position she was
found the next morning by her daughter in-
law who called her name repeatedly, and
received no answer. She went a little way
from the house to the cellar where they kept
vegetables, then returned and called again;
receiving no answer she tried the door, it
yielded. On looking in she saw everything
in confusion in the entry. She then passed
into the bedroom where the contents of
trunks, boxes and drawers lay strewed pro-
miscuously over the floor and glass all over
the room. She then summoned up all her
courage and went to the bed, where she
found the poor unfortunate woman with her
feet hanging from the bed and the cover
thrown over her body, and the pillow over
her face. To say that poor Ettie was para-
lyzed for the moment would be poorly ex-
pressing it. She then ran and gave the
alarm.
	The most active of the villians is sup-
posed to be a Mexican who a short time ago
had been working for them, for he knew
well the situation of the house and sur-
roundings, and just where she kept every-
thing. It seems that the deed was commited
in the early part of the night, as they seemed
to have taken their time in ransacking the
house and then rode leisurely away.
	Brother Peas who was hauling lumber
and was camping about three miles north of
here, heard a disturbance among his animals
and looking up to learn the cause saw four
horsemen riding by. It being very dark he
could not tell who they were, but supposed
they were settlers from the Colonies. In
the morning on looking for his harness he
missed a very valuable large horse, but
found the hobbles in the road where they
seemed to have been dropped.
	Morning found the settlers in pursuit of
the murderers and learning of the dreadful
deed Brother Peas very naturally concluded
that they were the thieves and he too joined
in the pursuit. They tracked the rascals by
the tracks made by the large horse, they

[Column 2]
went down the mountain road, passing
lumber teams, horsemen etc., from whom
they gained some information, until they
reached the Casas Grandes river where they
found the horses the rascals had been riding
and packing, including the large horse.
The officers stationed guards at every point
and had every house searched in and around
the city of Casas Grandes. We earnestly
pray that the officers will succeed in captur-
ing the assassins and secure their punish-
ment.
	Sister Agnes was born in Glasgow, Lan-
arkshire, Scotland, Sep. 8, 1838, her par-
ents were Alexander and Janette Aird. She
emigrated to Utah in 1864, crossed the
plains in ox teams and settled in Salt Lake
City. In 1866 she became the wife of
Alexander F. McDonald who is well known
throughout Utah, Arizona and Old Mexico.
She then moved to Provo, thence to St.
George, Utah, thence to Mesa City, Arizona,
and thence to Colonia, Juarez, Mexico,
where she resided until 1895, when she
came to this place where as in former places
she has lived, she has done a great work
and gained the good will of all who knew
her. On January 5, 1896, she was chosen
president of the Relief Society, which posi-
tion [-]he has ably filled, showing her sterl-
ing worth and qualifications to fill the
position.
	Her funeral services were held at 10 a.
m. Friday Feb. 25. The speakers were
Patriarch Henry Lunt, James Jensen,
Bishop George W. Hardy, B. L. Johnson
and L. T. Whetten, who gave good instruc-
tion and words of encouragment. Her re-
mains were then placed on a bier and borne
by eight brothers holding the priesthood,
followed by a procession of carriages, wag-
ons and horsemen.
	The sawmills, shinglemills and all kinds
of labor were suspended and a goodly num-
ber of brethren and sisters came from
Pacheco to attend the services, showing re-
spect and sympathy to our beloved sister
and for her devoted husband and children:
the former being absent on very important
business in El Paso, Texas, was not able to
get here in time for the funeral.
PHEBE I. ALLRED, (Cor.)
	Colonia, Chihuahua, Mexico Feb. 26.


A NEW GRANARY AND HALL. 

Editor Exponent: 

	A SUBSTANTIAL and commodious granary 
has recently been erected by the Beaver Re-
lief Society, which will enable them to con-
tinue the good work of gathering and stor-
ing grain for many years to come without 
being cramped for storage room, (which has 
been the case with them for several years.)
The building is of a beautiful magnesium 
rock and is about fifty feet long by twenty 
wide and a sixteen foot ceiling, and is di-
vided into two rooms. One portion has 
been fitted up as a granary 24 by 25 inside
measurements, and the other portion, which 
is not yet completed, is designed to be em-
bellished with a fine porch, and will make
an excellent apartment for a store or 
other business purposes. 
	The work of the building was projected 
in the early part of the year 1895, at a time 
when money was scarce and the Society 
was practically without any available funds. 
Confidence in the Lord that He would open


up the way, and in the people that they 
would be generous in the assistance they 
were called upon to render to further the 
interests of the work, was felt by the pre-
siding officers; and stimulated by this a 
commencement was made in the summer of 
1895. During that year a solid foundation 
was laid, and during the following year 
the walls were put up, the roof completed 
and a beautiful concrete floor laid in the 
granary, and last year the wheat was trans-
ferred from the old building, the grist mill 
and other places where the Society had 
been under the necessity of storing it, to the 
new granary, approximating one thousand 
bushels, where it is safe from the ravages of 
mice, rats and all other marauders, as the 
building is absolutely vermin proof. 
	In commemoration of this notable event 
in the history of the Beaver Relief Society 
a complimentary picnic and social party was 
extended to all who had in any manner con-
tributed to the enterprise, as also those who 
had been employed in the construction of 
the edifice, on Thursday, Feb. 10, in the 
Assembly hall. 
	The exercises commenced at 11 a. m. by 
singing and prayer, which was followed by 
an extended program of speeches, recita-
tions, songs etc., lasting until 2 p. m. when 
a bountiful supply of edibles was passed 
around to the assembled guests. The re-
freshments consisted of numerous courses 
of delicious sandwiches, pies, cake etc., 
which amply testified to the culinary 
achievements of the cooks. After the feast 
of good things had been disposed of the 
program of exercises was continued until 5 
p. m., when the benediction was pronounc-
ed and the people dispersed with many ex-
pressions of appreciation at the successful 
termination of the efforts of the promoters 
of the social event of the season. 
MARY F. WHITE, Sec.


MADAME MOUNTFORD. 

	ON Monday afternoon the 14th Feb., 
we received a call from Madame Mountford,
the noted Palestine lecturer. She had just 
arrived that morning from New York. 
During the early part of 1897 this talented 
lady spent some three months in Utah.
While there she lectured in all the principal
cities and towns of the State, and became 
quite attached to the people. From Utah
she went on to California, returning to Salt 
Lake in July to attend the pioneer jubilee
celebration. In January of this year on her 
return from the Pacific coast she again 
visited Salt Lake City and on Sunday Janu-
ary 9, spoke at the afternoon services held 
in the Tabernacle, concluding her remarks 
by bidding the people a fond farewell be-
fore returning to her home in Jerusalem. 
She paid a high tribute to the Latter-day 
Saints and their venerable president, Wil-
ford Woodruff. 
	Being so favorably impressed with our 
people and feeling so much at home in their 
midst she has taken the trouble to hunt up 
the missionaries on her way as she journeys 
along. She expects to spend a few months 
in England before continuing her journey. 
	Madame Mountford is a lady of culture 
and refinement. She commands a dignified 
yet easy and natural presence. In conver-
sation she is very entertaining. Her ideas 
are liberal, and she has a good word for all 
nationalities and peoples with whom she 
comes in contact in her extensive travels. 
-Millenial Star.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOANINGS.

Be still my heart! ye flutterings cease, 
And calmly wait the dawn of peace !
Rude winds have roughly swept thy strings—
In minor chords it wailing sings.

The sea of life is raging, wild surges roll !
Dark sorrow’s wave engulfs my soul,
But softly borne o’er the water’s foam
Hear the wistful sigh “’Tis not thy home.”

Moaning it falls on the listening ear;
Floats high then low o’er the water drear;
But clearer it sounds when the wind’s wild roar
Blows the music near from the far off shore. 

Arise my soul and spread thy weary wings!
For hope a lu’laby sweetly sings;
Like a light, it beckons o’er the stormy sea,
And whispers so softly “Come to me, come to me.'’

If all days were sunny, the sunsets all fair,
Then never another’s woe would we share;
If heartaches and crosses we never had borne.
Had never our bosoms been pierced with a thorn,

Then never the love that the Master has given,
Would grow in our lives to draw us to heaven;
If never a wanderer far o’er the sea’s foam,
Then never we’d know of the pleasures of home.

“Come to me,come to me”is stil whispered low—
O cling to thy 1 ord though many tears flow;
Still hoping and striving whatever betide,
Till the fair shore is reached where the angels
	abide.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
Jan.1898.


FAREWELL TO THEE. 

	[Song written in honor of Brother Ezra Steven-
son and sung at his farewell party.]

THOU blest son of Zion we bid thee adieu,
The nations are calling for men brave and true,
To bring them the Gospel and show them the
	way,
Revea’ed by the Father in this Latter-day.

			CHORUS.

	Farewell to thee, farewell to thee,
	We sadly, yet proudly say farewell to thee.

So noble thy mission, thy calling divine,
The powers and blessings of heaven are thine,
To wield for His glory and in His great name,
Perform mighty wonders and Israel redeem.

			CHORUS.

Though oft we shall miss thee we bid thee God
	speed,
And pray that the nation thy message may heed,
May angels go with thee thy footsteps to guide,
Until thou returnest with us to abide.

			CHORUS.

If sometimes thy pathway is lonely and drear, 
May fair visions of home like sunshine appear,
Though sinners pursue thee and scoffers de ide,
Remember we love thee what e’er may betide.

R. M. F.


QUEEN MARGHERITA of Italy has made
herself responsible for the execution of a
plan to build an observatory at the summit
of Monte Rosa, at a height of 4,560 metres.
The work on it has already been begun.
The queen, who, as is well known, is an
enthusiastic mountaineer, is in the habit of
spending several weeks each year at the
summit of Monte Rosa. The observatory
will be higher than that on Mount Blanc,
and the highest in Europe. The cost will
be about $50,000.


Published by request.
AN EVENING WITH “MUSINGS AND
MEMORIES.”

OVATION TO EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	NEVER were the finer instincts of true
poetic natures more richly feasted than on
the evening of February 26, 1898, when an
ovation was given to Sister Emmeline B.
Wells in honor of the publication of her
poetical writings, “Musings and Memories.”
	Over a hundred ladies all friends, “tried
and true,” of the gifted lady, met at the
residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 75 Center
St. After cordial greetings and congratu-
lations the hostess was given the honor of
chairman. The program was composed al
most entirely from Mrs. Wells’ poems—and
opened with the Ladies singing “Our
Mountain Home so Dear.” Our veteran
Mother in Israel, Sister M. Isabella Horne,
then drew us near to the throne of God
with sacred invocation. The chairman
then called the name of each lady, who re-
sponded with a sentiment from the little
book whose birth we were celebrating.
Miss Olea Shipp sang “True Friendship”
in her sweet contralto, after which Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder gave an elaborate and en-
tertaining review of the book, which was
listened to with enrapt attention. Mrs.
Maggie Bassett and Mrs. Pearl Fernstrom,
nee Russell, sang in their sweetest voices and
Miss Ellis R. Shipp read “The Happy
Maiden.”
	How often have we felt our hearts thrilled
by childrens’ voices singing “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior,” but never did the
words sound sweeter than at this time when
it was sung by ten little girls in white
dresses, white flowers in their hair and
creamy roses in their hands. The senti-
ment of loving gratitude of thousands of
childish hearts was expressed when they
laid their tribute of flowers in the author’s
lap, receiving in turn kisses and sweet
smiles through dewy tears.
	The name of Dr. R. B. Pratt was then
called who in a few well chosen words pre-
sented to Mrs. Wells in behalf of many
friends, a beautiful book which was a poem
in itself—it being unique in that it was en-
tirely original, each page representing in-
dividual work of nearly a hundred ladies.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells:—Your book of poems,
a long looked for treasure, is now a beauti-
ful, tangible fact and its perusal gives us
sweet pleasure, profit and consolation.
	It is a shining leaf in your “laurel
wreath” of fame with which you stand en-
crowned on your seventieth birthday anni-
versary.
	Your sheaf of years, bound with the
golden cord of love, sympathy and helpful-
ness towards your many friends is fraught
with histories both sweet and sad, but
borne with such fortitude, energy and full
fruition of noble works as is encompassed
rarely in the lives of mortals.
	May your remaining days be less ardu-
ous but even more full of desires accom-
plished; and may the sun of peace and
prosperity and fame ever grow brighter as
you wend your way toward the sunset of
life.
	This book of flowers and sentiments
which I have the honor to present to you,
reflects in every leaf the love and affection
and taste of an individual friend. May it in
days to come be a sweet reminder of our

[Column 2]
days of friendship and association, and buoy
up your heart, if perchance a shadow may
darken an hour.
“Our hearts desire for thee more than we can ex-
	press.
Long life, true joy and an eternal happiness.”
								R. B. P.
	At the close of the literary exercises all
repaired to the dining room to partake of
delicious refreshments amid the cheerful
hum of voices, the perfume of fragrant flow-
ers and sweet strains of music floating
through the rooms, enlivening the hours
and exhilarating the soul.
	True poetry is the divine music of the
inner soul! To feel its instinctive power,
to listen to its silent whisperings, and more
than all, to be able to express its euphoni-
ous eloquence is to be wafted (so to speak)
from our materialistic beings into the realms
of the infinite.
	Those who peruse “Musings and Memor-
ies” must surely feel this mental exaltation.
How many useful lessons we learn from
these truthful touches of nature—“The
Spirit of Consolation,” Sorrow and Sym-
pathy,” “Faith and Fidelity,” the rambles
through woodland and glen and in “The
Dear Old Garden,” the voice from the
mountain and the plaintive, weird music of
the sea—all reach the inmost soul and lure
us back to heaven. The grandest thoughts
of human souls are thus immortalized and
live again within the heart of ages yet un-
born. And methinks in that blest home
where Father dwells, angelic hearts will
sing these songs of praise—these gems of
inspiration—that come to mortals here be-
low as beams of heavenly light from His
exalted presence.
				ELLIS R. SHIPP.


THE CLEOFAN.

	ON Tuesday afternoon the Cleofan enjoy-
ed a topic on the Fairy Queen, by Mrs.
Clara M. Clawson. The Epithalamium
was given by Mrs. Mary J. Clawson. Spen-
cer as a Philosophic Poet, by Mrs. Margie
D. Jennings. All were given in a clear
and concise manner. The club adjourned
for one week.
	March 1, 1898.
	On Tuesday afternoon the Cleofan en-
joyed character readings from Richard III.
by Mrs. Susie D. R. Wells, Mrs. Annie S.
Young, Mrs. Margie D. Jennings and Mrs.
Clara M. Clawson. Mrs. Susie D. R.
Wells gave the story of the play in a most
nteresting manner. The club adjourned
for one week.
	March 8, 1898.
	ON Tuesday afternoon the Cleofan en-
joyed a discussion of Miss M. J. Evans’
paper “The school a moral faction in the
nation,”—by Mrs. Susie D. R. Wells.
Miss. May gave a charming talk on the
Kindergarten system. Reports for the pub-
lic schools were given by Miss Emeline
Wells, Miss Kate Wells, Mrs. Evelyn Y.
Davis and Mrs. Blanche P. Lee. The club
adjourned for one week.
	March 15, 1898.
CLARA T. FELT, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


THE bill to submit a suffrage amendment
was defeated Feb. 15, in the Upper House
of the Iowa Assembly, 50 to 47.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Business hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15 & APRIL 1, 1898.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief So-
ciety will be held on Tuesday, April 5,
1898, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. as usual. It is very desirable
that there should be representation from
each Stake organization of the Society, eith-
er the president or one of her counselors
should attend or authorize some one to act
for the board, All members of the Society
are cordially invited, also the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary. Presidents, Bishops and
brethren will be most welcome.
	There will be an officers’ meeting on
Saturday, April 9, at the same place, com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and all officers of the
Society are urgently requested to attend.
ZINA D. H. YOUNG
President.
JANE S. RICHARDS
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
Counselors.


THE WAR CRY.

	FOR some time past a war cry has been
in the air all over this country and in
other lands and to many war has seemed in-
evitable. The telegraphic news has been
conflicting yet on the whole it has sound-
ed threatening, to put the matter mildly.
The explosion of the Maine has formed
the topic for weeks, and now that the
Court of Inquiry has rendered its verdict,
there seems little change in the general
commotion. Preparations for war in the
army and navy are going forward and the
outlook is not a happy one to say the
least.
	At last President McKinley has spoken;
his message on the subject including the
findings of the court, were presented to the
Congress of the United States Monday,
March 28, and was received with intense
interest. Congress took deliberate and dig-
nified action—the message was referred to
Committees.
	The times are war-like in aspect and
many “wise men of Gotham” anticipate
war in the near future. The City of
Havana is reported to be a veritable vol-
cano. War ships and torpedo boats seem
to be engaging the attention of men, and
if one listens to the war talk in public
places, one might easily assume that peace
was indeed taken from the earth.
	However, one fact is apparent, there is
much suffering and destitution. America


is acting nobly in relieving the distressed
and the Red Cross Society are on hand to
take charge of supplies and manage these
affairs economically.
	Spain would show wisdom if she would
consent to the measures proposed by the
American government, for surely she will
be made to yield ignominisously if war is
entered upon. Those who desire an ami-
cable settlement of affairs continue hopeful
and perhaps the cry of war may pass by
this time without involving nations as
now seems not unlikely; but eventually
the prophecies concerning these things
must be fulfilled however much people
who love peace may regret the necessity of
war.


[Column 1]
F. MARION CRAWFORD.

	THE distinguished author and lecturer,
F. Marion Crawford, recently paid Utah a
visit speaking in Provo, Salt Lake and
Ogden.
	Mr. Crawford is an American though
born in Rome, where his father (Thomas
Crawford) was at the time studying sculp-
ture. He has had a cosmopolitan educa-
tion—has studied at Harvard and at Cam-
bridge, England, and Heidleburg, Germany,
has traveled very extensively and at one time
edited a newspaper in Allahabad, India; he
has lived much in foreign parts, principally
in Italy and Sicily. He is a man of broad
views and has a decided originality that is
very charming. He is very tall and of mag-
netic presence, has a rich, clear voice and
eloquent eyes, his diction is perfect, one
never loses a word, nor even an accent.
With most of his books the people of Salt
Lake City are familiar and unlike most
authors he was evidently willing to talk of
his stories.
	His lecture in this city was under the
auspices of the Ladies Literary club and
was given in the M. E. Church on Third
South St. Mr. Crawford was introduced to
the audience by Rev. Henry, who had
known him in New York City. The audi-
ence was large, the hall being crowded to
its utmost capacity. The subject was Leo
XIII. and the Vatican. Evidently the
speaker was in love with his theme; it was
apparent throughout the evening, for he
spoke nearly two hours. He described the
Pope graphically, both the outward and the
inner man; one who heard him could easily
see the picture and imagine the voice and
manner of the man he portrayed. A scholar,
a poet, a statesman, brilliant in intellectual
attainments, cultured and polished in all
that gives tone and finish to the gentleman
and scholar, and yet simple in tastes and
habits in the details of life. Mr. Crawford
compared Pope Leo with Lincoln and
Gladstone and contrasted him and his
labors in the Church with Pope Pius IX.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club gave a
reception to Mr. Crawford at the Bee Hive
House—the residence of Hon. Spencer
Clawson—from 3 to 6 p. m. on Tuesday,
March 22. The parlors were prettily ar-
ranged for the occasion and Miss Claire
Clawson in her sweet, amiable way made
the ladies of the club more than welcome.
Dr. R. B. Pratt, E. B. Wells and Susa Y.
Gates took charge of the introductions and
presented the callers to Mr. Crawford, the
guest of honor, who was most gracious and
affable, conversing with ease and freedom
to each one present with a dignified con-
geniality that won praise and admira-

[Column 2]
tion from all hearts. A little good
music, Prof. Cornelius Schettler on the gui-
tar, and some fine selections on the piano.
Miss Carol Cannon sang in her best and
sweetest style, “Because,” and Lulu Gates
in her childlike way with rich pathos ren-
dered three choice songs, a Florentine song
by Benjamin Goddard “The Dream” and
“The Garden of Sleep.” The guests were
about a hundred and fifty in number and
included Col. Kent and wife, Lieut. Gurney,
Mrs. Cabaniss, Mrs. Tayman of the Fort
and Mrs. Patterson of Cleveland, a guest at
the Fort, President Angus M. Cannon,
Elder C. W. Penrose, Dr. M. Hughes Can-
non State Senator, Mrs. W. F. Nelden,
Mrs. John McVicker, Mrs. Robert Walker,
Mrs. W. C. Jennings, Mrs. Arthur Brown,
Mrs. John Q. Cannon, Mrs. Cornelius
Schettler, Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth and
Miss Julia Farnsworth, Mrs. A. W. Mc-
Cune and Miss Fay McCune, Prof. Mar-
shall and wife, Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis,
Miss Emeline and Miss Lyde Wells, Mrs.
A. E. Hyde and Miss Laura Hyde, Mrs.
R. K. Thomas, Mrs. M. Salmon of Omaha,
Mrs. K. Verran of Michigan Mrs. S. Clay-
ton of this city, and many others.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Saturday afternoon a meeting was
held in Spring City, Sister Mary Frantzen
presiding. Bishop Allred was present and
made some remarks after the sisters had all
spoken, expressing great interest in the Re-
lief Society and the Latter-day work as a
whole.
	MADAME MOUNTFORD who visited Utah
during the last year and gave her original
entertainments in several places and spoke
in the large Tabernacle in this city on the
Sunday before her departure for the East,
after visiting Toronto, Canada, New York
City and London, sailed from Marseilles on
the steamer “Midnight Sun,” going via
Sicily, Athens, Constantinople, the Holy
Land, Egypt and Malta. No word has
been received of her plans while absent that
we are aware of; she is registered as an
eminent lecturer along with several divines
and professors.
	PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG and
Sister Emily S. Richards of this city went
to Ogden and attended the Relief Society
conference of Weber Stake held on Thurs-
day, March 10, in that city, Sister Jane S.
Richards presiding. There was a goodly
attendance from various parts of the county
and an excellent spirit manifest. The
work in that Stake seems to be rapidly pro-
gressing and the deepest interest is appar-
ent in all the gatherings.
	THE Relief Society conference of Sanpete
Stake was held in Ephraim on Friday,
March 11th and on Saturday morning,
March 12, President Mary A. Hyde presid-
ing. Visitors from this city were Sisters
E. B. Wells and Annie T. Hyde. President
Canute Peterson attended the three sessions
of the conference and President J. T. D.
McAllister was present at the morning ses-
sion on Friday. There were sisters from
most of the settlements in the country, not-
withstanding the cold, stormy weather.
At Ephraim we attended a meeting of the
Primary Association and were much grati-
fied with the interesting program and beau-
tiful children assembled. The young girls 
in charge seemed to love their work and to


[Column 1]
have been successful in gaining the love of
the children.
	A VERY pleasant social was given in the
14th ward Assembly hall in honor of
Brother Ezra Stevenson on the evening of
the 24th of March, previous to his depart-
ure for New Zealand, this being his second
mission to that far off land. Appreciating
his faithfulness in the performance of his
duties, the members of the ward and his
many friends united in the effort to show
their great esteem for him. Hirini Whanuga, 
the Maori chief and family lent their pre-
sence for the occasion. The room was
tastefully decorated with ferns and banners,
the one at the head of the hall bearing the
inscription, “Long live our Superinten-
dent,” another at the side reading, “Your
many friends wish you God speed on your
journey.” An excellent program was
rendered, after which refreshments were
served by the young ladies. All felt to say
“God bless Brother Ezra Stevenson.”
	UTAH has been favored of late with visits
from Governors of other states; the Govern-
or of Utah of whom the people are justly
proud, has had an opportunity to extend
hospitality and welcome to these distinguish-
ed visitors,and maintain the hospitable char-
acter Utah has always been credited with in
the past. Governor Adams and wife of 
Colorado and Governor Richards and wife
of Wyoming were in Salt Lake City at the
same time’ and it was fully expected that
Governor Stonenberg of Idaho would join
the party here, but he did not come. A
dinner at the Alta Club for the Governors
their friends and colleagues, and a lunch-
eon at Col. Clayton’s for the ladies of the
party and other local ladies was a part of
the program of entertainment, a trip to 
Saltair and a reception at the Knutsford
were also features of their sojourn.
	MORE recently still Governor Hastings of
the great state of Pennsylvania, accompan-
ed by his wife and daughter and District
Attorney McCormick wife and daughter,al-
so Senator Cochran wife and daughter, who
had been touring in the West, paid Salt 
Lake City a brief visit and were shown the
principal interesting places etc. The
Governor and his staff escorted the party to
the Tabernacle, the President’s office where
they met Presidents Woodruff and Can-
non of the L. D. S. Church, and to Fort
Douglas where they were welcomed with
military honors and music, also a trip to
Saltair, Col. Kent and party joining with the
Governor and his staff and Attorney General
Bishop with invited guests from the city,
making quite a pleasant party. Col. Kent
kindly furnished musicians from the Fort
which added much to the enjoyment of the
party while at the pavilion, and made the
trip still more interesting.
	ON Sunday evening and Monday
morning meetings were held in Fairview
though the weather was most unfavorable,
yet the people came in large numbers.
At Fairview we were delighted to meet once 
more Sister Mary A. Pitchforth who has 
presided over the Relief Society there from
its first organization. She is very greatly
beloved; at present she is very feeble and
looks frail, but her courage is sublime and
her faith in the work is firm and steadfast.
At Fairview we met with two young men
from the city who were traveling on busi-
ness Elders Melvin D. Wells and Brigham
T. Cannon, the latter just home recently

[Column 2]
from a mission to Germany. They attended
the Relief Society meeting on Sunday eve-
ning and bore a good testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. During the trip all
around President M. A. Hyde, who is near-
ly eighty-two years of age, kept up wonder-
fully and seemed equal to the responsibili-
ties resting upon her in her office and call-
ing; in fact she seemed to improve as we
traveled from place to place.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CALIFORNIA MISSION.

Dear Editor:
	THE 10th of February being the anniver-
sary of the marriage of President and Mrs.
Nye, the Relief Society tendered them a
dinner at the Mission house. Eighty peo-
ple were seated at the tables which were
laden with all the good things one could de-
sire. The guests were waited on by Miss
Lilly Boedefeld, Miss Flossie Sarll, Miss
Adle Boedefeld Miss Edith Sarll and Miss
Florence Rawlinson, young ladies of the
branch. They were kept busy nearly three
hours and in a most gracious manner waited
upon all who came.
	Many investigators hearing of the event
came to do honor to Brother and Sister Nye
who are ever ready to help in the cause of
truth, one would have thought he was in
Utah to look down the long banqueting
table and see so many well known Utah
people, among whom were Brother Lorin
Farr of Ogden, Don C. Musser, Sister Mary
J. Young and son Briant Young; also Willie
Mackintosh of Salt Lake and many other
former residents of Utah, and ten Elders
laboring in San Francisco and vicinity help-
ed to swell the number
	Sister M. A. Rattenberry, president of
the Relief Society, made a speech while the
guests were still seated at the table, in her
well known and pleasing style. The other
officers, Sisters Sewell, Simpkin, Sarll and
Woodward, followed in neat little speeches
full of loving words to Sister Nye, who
labors with them so faithfully to help in the
mission work in California. The evening
was spent in vocal music and recitations
by members of the branch, and a most en-
joyable time was spent.
	The Relief Society is progressing and the
sisters feel that God is blessing their work.
IDA M. SARLL, Sec.
San Francisco, March 17, 1898.


U.W. P. C.

THE ladies of the U. W. P. C. met as
per adjournment at the “Woman’s Ex-
ponent” office Monday, March 6, 1898.
The president. Dr. R. B. Pratt, being ab-
sent the vice-president, Mrs. R. H. Doolan,
occupied the chair. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze. The roll call was re-
sponded to by quotations from Madame De
Stael. Dr. Orielle Curtis was appointed by
unanimous vote critic for the year.
	Under unfinished business the by-laws of
the club were read and discussion thereon
followed. Mrs. E. B. Wells moved that
Miss Laura Hyde be alternate director in
the State Federation of Utah Woman’s
Clubs, Mrs. L. S. Dickinson being director.
Motion carried.
	The question of issuing receipts for mem-
bership was also presented by Mrs. E. B.
Wells and left over as unfinished business.
She then drew the club’s attention to the
George Washington Association, stating


that Margaret A. Caine had advanced in be-
half of the U. W. P. C. five dollars for
identification as a charter member. A dis-
cussion on ways and means followed and
the question was left as unfinished business.
	The secretary read a letter from the cor-
responding secretary of the Woman’s Club
inviting the appointment or a representative
to meet with them in general council for
discussing important questions of general
interest. Dr. Orielle Curtis nominated
Ruth M. Fox and the motion was carried.
	A letter was read from the acting chair-
man of the U. W. P. C. soliciting donation
of one dollar towards establishing traveling
libraries Motion agreeable to invitation
was carried.
	Mrs. Lawler was admitted as a member
and began the evening’s program with a
charming paper on France. Mrs. Rachel
Miller read one equally as interesting on
Noted Men of France. Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox
gave a delightful short talk on Noted Wo-
men of France. The program was announc-
ed for next meeting, the minutes were read
and with one correction accepted, and the
club adjourned for one month.
Program for next, meeting: Paper on
Spain, Phebe C. Young; Cuba, Dr.
Orielle Curtis; Portugal, Emily S.
Richards. Poem, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
Quotations from Spanlsh authors.

M. A. J. LAMBERT, Sec.


TO SISTER L. M. HART.

THE souvenirs presented you
	This day, cannot express
Our loving appreciation
	Of your works of righteousness.
We’ve labored with you many years,
	And proved you ever true,
When you engaged to do a work,
	That you would surely do.

How many times we’ve listened
	To counsels you have given,
To Zion’s daughters to be pure,
	And make on earth a heaven. 
You have taught us age to honor,
	To our dear mothers kind,
That on the earth no other,
	Like mother could we find.

’Tis not alone by precept,
	You’ve pointed out the way,
But by your own example,
	Consistent day by day.
Refinement and intelligence,
	We know that you possess,
And that you seek for wisdom,
	In truth and holliness.

Our martyred Prophet taught the Saints
	That they must knowledge gain,
For they could not in ignorance,
	Eternal life obtain.
And you’re among the faithful,
	Who prize the talents given,
And thus prepare by faith and prayer.
	To dwell with Saints in heaven.

Oftimes have we been welcomed
	Into your pleasant home,
Where rays of lively sunshine.
	Upon our hearts would come.
You’ve been kind unto the orphan,
	You’ve clothed and fed the poor,
And for your acts of kindness,
	God bless you, evermore.


You’ve passed through many trials,
	As all God’s people do;
But He has given strength and power,
	To bravely battle through.
May you have strength sufficient,
	To help you to the end,
Is the prayer most humbly offered,
	For you,our worthy friend.
NANCY ALLRED.
Bloomington, Idaho.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REEIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINMENT

	ON Feb. 22 an entertainment was given
in the 8th ward under the auspices of the
Relief Society in honor of the president,
Catharine K. Palmer, to which all the adult
members of the ward were invited. There
was an excellent program under the direc-
tion of J. M. Chamberlain. The Bishop
and his counselors were present, also sever-
al who were once members of the ward.
Refreshments were served and a very en-
joyable time was spent.
			ABBY A. PIGGOTT, Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday Feb. 19, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing “O say what
is truth.” Prayer by Counselor E. Webb.
Singing “How will the Saints rejoice to
tell.” Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted.
	President Horne quoted the saying of the
Savior that “If ye are not one ye are not
mine.” She thought the Saints should all
be united in everything they attempt to do
and said we all had a portion of the Spirit
of God, that we brought it with us when
we left the Lord’s presence: it was this that
prompted us to do any good thing and it
remained with us whether we used it to do
good or not. Said it took bravery to be a
Latter-day Saint for we had much to over-
come, but when we kept His command-
ments no good thing either in heaven or on
earth would be witheld from us. She felt
we were indeed a blessed people. In a little
company recently where President Woodruff
was present she heard him say that we
should strive to do the works of Latter-day
Saints, that we would not fall by the way-
side, Urged those present to do those
works and talked very plainly to the Saints.
	Sister Annie O. Brown said she felt it
was necessary to do the works of God, and
knew we should feel like brothers and sis-
ters to one another. The Gospel was every-
thing to her, bore a strong testimony and
felt that this was all she lived for.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to the ter-
rible things happening in the world of
which we read, also of the signs of the times.
She felt we could not help asking ourselves
the question “Will we be able to stand the
test?” We could only trust in God; when
we were in trouble it was then He was the
nearest to us. Spoke of the condition of the
world today, said that people scarcely had
any faith in one another and very little in
God; they feared greatly something but did
not know what; knew this was one of the
signs of the times.
	Sister Carlhurst bore her testimony to
the truth of tithing, and told how by pay-
ing her tithing she was greatly blest.
	Sister Margaret P. Young said she en-
joyed these meetings and the sweet spirit

[Column 2]
that always attended the meetings of the
Saints She realized that God had been
good to her and had ever had a watch-care
over her. She had never felt like drawing
away from Him. Spoke of the life and
works of Elder Erastus Snow. He lived at
her father’s home for some time, had en-
joyed the Gospel then very much as also
now. Said she did not care to be the one
to say she had never had a trial.
	Sister Cottrell said she thought we should
not speak of trials when we were permitted
to come here and attend these meetings and
enjoy the sweet spirit which was here.
She had been reading about some of the
ancient martyrs who had been so cruelly
persecuted for their religion, and could not
help thinking what a blessed people we
were that we could enjoy our religion to
the extent we did; bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Barrow said there was qot a day
when she did not thank God for the bless-
ings she enjoyed and wondered how any
one could doubt, especially when we could
see the prophecies of the prophets of God
being so rapidly fulfilled. Prayed the Lord
to bless our aged sisters, that they might be
spared to us for many years yet to instruct
and encourage us.
	Sister Rawlings said she had been very
ill but was healed by the power of faith, for
which she was very grateful. A sister in
the congregation also bore her testimony to
the power of healing.
	Sister Barnes felt thankful for our dear
aged sisters, Sister Horne and others, who
had been such a blessing and comfort to us.
Spoke of her native country Scotland, said
she loved it, yet she was glad to leave it to
come to Zion. Singing “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt we had had a
treat in listening to the beautiful testi-
monies of the sisters, and knew we were
strengthened by this. She thought with
Sister Horne that the Spirit of the Lord was
being poured out upon the sisters, and al-
luded to the signs of the times, felt there
was a very eventful time before us. The
mothers should be careful what they said
before their children, that their faith
might not be weakened but strengthened.
Prayed that we might not make much of
our trials but put our trust in God.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she thought we
should learn to sift ourselves and throw out
the chaff. Spoke on humility and the
signs of the times. Said we must not for-
get our God or He would forget us. When
we get discouraged just throw off the humor
and rest and then with the help of the Lord
we would go on again refreshed.
	Sister Mary Silver said she felt glad that
she was a Latter-day Saint, and she was also
glad and proud that we had a sister like
Sister Horne to help and advise us. Said
we never knew her to tell us anything that
was not true, and spoke on the word of
wisdom, knew there was peace for those
who practiced it.
	Sister Hannah Wright thought it was
good to devote a little of our time to meet-
ings, said the more time we gave to the
Lord the better it was for us, there was no
enjoyment like serving the Lord. She had
heard Brother Woodruff say, “How very
few of the millions that are in the world
have embraced the Gospel and how few of
the Saints are really living their religion.”
She felt pleased and grateful to see so many
here. Said sometimes she wished the Gos-
pel had come to her earlier in life, but was

[Column 3]
consoled by having a brother say to her
that it came in just the right time.
	Singing “Be it my only wisdom here.”
President Horne had been reminded to-
day of a saying of Sister Eliza R. Snow that
“a good meeting was like a picnic where
each one brought something different that
was good.” It was so with the testimonies
this afternoon. Said when this building
would not hold all who came, we would
gladly adjourn to the Assembly hall.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
“Satan’s empire long has flourished.”
Benediction by Dr. E. S. Barney.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday, March 5, 1898, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Jesus the
Giver.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.” Minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne requested the sisters to
be more united in their votes, she would like
to see every hand raised when a vote was
taken. Spoke strongly on fault finding,
especially with our brethren and the author-
ities, said the Lord was not pleased with us
when this was the case and urged the sis-
ters to unite their forces to quell this. Said
that there was nothing would give us the
joy that knowing we had served the Lord
would, and that there would be a place in
our Father’s kingdom for us. Fault find-
ing was not serving the Lord, neither does
it bring us peace or pleasure; it was the
humble and the meek who had the Spirit
of the Lord. She regretted that some of
our young people were married outside the
Temple. Knew this was a day of choosing
as well as warning, spoke strongly on the
signs of the times.
	Sister Holling knew by the minutes that
we must have had a beautiful meeting last
time, and felt the older she grew the strong-
er was her desire to serve the Lord.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she had been fifty-
four years in learning obedience, that if we
lived right we were entitled to the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit. Asked how many
had had their Patriarchial blessings and
urged those who did not have them to get
them; said that they would be a source of
comfort. Spoke on the signs of the times,
also on young people being married right.
	A sister from Cache Valley said she felt
impressed to bear her testimony. She was
glad to see Sister Zina D. H. Young here,
and felt to say God bless her. Said many
times had she put her hands upon her head
and blessed her, also had heard her speak in
tongues many times.
	Singing “You are called to labor.” Sis-
ter Margaret P. Young said she never re-
membered of doubting the truth of the Gos-
pel, she had always been a teacher in the
Relief Society and enjoyed her labors.
Sister Mary A. Hardy felt thankful for the
good women whom we had in our midst,
	Sisters Young and Horne, to comfort and
advise us. We knew the Lord was not
pleased with us when we indulged in fault-
finding and evil speaking against the Lord’s
anointed.
	President Zina D. H. Young said that
while looking around on the faces of her
sisters she was reminded of the Savior’s
words, that those who feared the Lord met
often together and spoke one to another,
“And they will be mine when I come to
make up my jewels.” “Just think of it


my sisters, by coming here and bearing our
testimonies and speaking one to another we
can be His. It is a simple thing to do but
means much.” Said she felt sorry for any
woman who spoke against the revelations
of God. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.”
	Sister Elizabeth Eangton said she knew
the Spirit of the Lord was in this meeting
in great abundance, she had been greatly
blessed by the Lord, had been enabled to
send money to her husband who was on a
mission and also to gather a great amount
of genealogy. Said she had been forty
years in the Church, and felt greatly blest
in being able to say this.
	Sister Emma Nunn said she and her little
girl had both been very sick but had been
healed by the power of God. Had prom-
ised the Lord she would speak of His good-
ness to her this afternoon.
	Sister McMaster bore her testimony, felt
if she went away without doing this she
would be condemned. Spoke of her Relief
Society work and how she enjoyed it. She
knew it was the work of God.
	Sister Sarah Phelps made some beautiful
remarks, also spoke in tongues.
	Sister Derrick spoke of her recent be-
reavement in the death of her husband, and
alluded to his many virtues. Told how
suddenly he was taken, that he was almost
changed in the twinkling of an eye bore a
strong testimony. 
	A sister in the congregation said she was
thankful that we had a place like
this where we could meet together and sing
and pray and comfort one another.
	President Horne felt the meeting had
been very enjoyable. Gave out the notice
of Stake conference two weeks from today.
	Adjourned for four weeks. Singing
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Counselor E. Webb.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

SISTER AGNES M’ARTHUR WHITE.

	Sister McArthur White, daughter of James and
Elizabeth McA thur, was born May 13, 1842, was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints November 1857 and emigrated to Utah
in 1859. She was married to Stephen White in
Salt Lake City on November 1, 1859, and lived in
Mill Creek ward until the spring of 1868 w en she
moved to Willard where she resided until her
death on Feb uary 4, 1898.
	Sister White was a teacher in the Relief Society
of Willard and a counselor in the North District
Primary Association, also a teacher in the
Sunday Schoo . She was a faithfu  Latter-day
Saint and was loved and respected by all who
knew her. She eaves a kind husband and eight
children, four sons and four daughters to mourn
her loss.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenl  Fa her has seen fit to
take from our midst one of our sisters, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the officers and members of
the Relief Society of Willard and of the Primary
Association of North District do extend our heart-
felt sympathy to the bereaved family in this their
hour of sorrow, and that we ever cherish her
memory. 
	RESOLVED, Tha  a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society, one
presented to the bereaved family and one sent to
the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
				BETHIAH F. WELLS, Sec.

	HANNAH CHAPMAN RAYMOND
	Died at Soda Springs, Idaho, Feb. 15, 1898, of
paralysis, Hannah Chapman Raymond. Deceased
was born at Crowle, England, March 2, 1813, and
would have been eighty-five years old had she
lived two weeks longer She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in England
and emigrated to Utah in 1856, coming across the


plains in the first train of handcarts and belonging
to Brother Ellsworth’s company; she was known
at that time as Sister Goodworth, and traveled a
widow with four children, only one of whom sur-
vives her, viz.,Mrs. Ann Ashby, wife of Benj. Ash-
by of Woods Cross, Utah, who was an invalid at
that time   Deceased was left a widow four times
during her life and has suffered great oss in her
family, being the mother of thirteen children of
whom four only are liv ng, viz. Mrs. Frances
Clark, Crowle, England; Mrs. Ann Ashby, Wood’s
Cross, Utah; Mr William Chester and Mrs. Alice
Cambell, Soda Springs, Idaho. Deceased has
enjoyed particularly good health for ten years un-
til her last sickness, and has kept her own house
d ing most of her own work, until her eyesight
began to fail and some of her grandchildren lived
with her until about two years ago, when she re-
moved to the house of her daughter, Mrs Cam-
bell, where she died.
	She experienced a circumstance which was, no
doubt, miraculous, in connection with the dedica-
tion of of the Temple at Salt Lake. It was a
cherished wish of her’s that she might live to see
the completion of that building, and as the time
drew near her eyesight began to get so poor that
she was unable to see with the aid of glasses.
She attended the services, however, and when
she arrived at the Temple er eyesight was so far
restored that she dis inctly saw all objec s around
her, and after she returned to her daughter’s
home at Wood’s Cross she was able to read a
newspaper and thread a needle without the aid of
glasses. This blessing lasted only for a short
time, but her wish that she might see the Temple
was gratified
	She was president of the Relief Society of Soda
Springs ward for fifteen years, when she was
hono ably released on account of her old a e in
June 1896. She leaves many grandchildren,
great grandchildren, and one little great great
grandchild, the daughter of Cyrus and Emma
Page, of Bountiful Utah, besides a large number
of friends both in and out of the Church to
mourn her loss, for she was a friend to all.
[COM.]


[Column 1]
R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
	Minutes of the St. Johns Stake Primary con-
ference held Feb. 28, 1898, President Emma
B. Coleman presiding. After singing pray-
er was offered by our young brother, Oscar
Freeman. Sister Coleman made same good
and appropriate opening remarks. after
which a short program was rendered con-
sisting of songs, music, recitations and our
paper read by the editor, Ethel Farr.
	Short reports were given by presidents or
representatives of the different wards, every
ward in the Stake being represented. The
statistical report was read and the officers
sustained.
	Sister Cornelia Horne Clayton of Provo,
Utah, then addressed the congregation
in a very interesting manner, giving good
and timely instruction and sang the chil-
dren a song.
	President D. K. Udall spoke for a short
time, followed by Celia Hamblin. After
singing, benediction was pronounced by
young Revel Jarvis.
	SARAH H. CROSBY, Sec. pro tem.
MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
at the Society hall Dec. 16, 1897, President
Mabel Ann Hakes presiding assisted by her
counselors, Lizzie A. McDonald and Sarah
M. Johnson, President C. R. Hakes and
other sisters Meeting was opened by the
usual exercises. Statistical and financial
report for the year ending Dec. 16, 1897,
was read and accepted. All the wards were
represented showing a good spirit prevail-
ing in our midst and the Saints generally
alive to their duties. The topics dwelt up-
on were the fostering of home industries,
storing grain etc., and a more strict observ-

[Column 2]
ance of the laws of God. A number of the
sisters bore testimonies, and all felt to re-
joice in the great work of the last days.
	President C. R. Hakes exhorted the
Saints to awake and make the warfare
against a spirit of evil and iniquity stronger
and harder until we should have helped to
redeem the inhabitants of the earth.
	Many good seeds were sown in the hearts
of those present, and all felt blest in coming
ttogether in this meeting. Adjourned fo
hree months. Benediction by President
Hakes.
			F. E. ROBSON, Sec.
PAROWAN STAKE.
	ON February 11, 1898, the sisters of the
several branches comprising the Parowan
Stake Relief Society held their seventieth
quarterly conference in the ward Tabernacle
of Cedar City. The weather being un-
favorable the attendance was not so large as
it otherwise might have been. The five
wards comprising the Stake organizations
were represented as progressing favorably:
The work of gathering grain for the time of
need is being systematically carried on by
the sisters, the Stake having 1,480 bushels
and 30 pounds on hand at the present time.
	The instructions during our meeting were
principally exhorting parents, mothers es-
pecially, to train their children in their
youth in the principles of the work we as
Latter-day Saints are engaged in, for the
impressions made in childhood are never
forgotten. We should impress upon our
little ones the necessity of prayer and teach,
them to have faith in the Lord. The sub-
jects of intemperance and the word of wis-
dom were also spoken upon.
	As is customary at our conferences, Stake
President U. T. Jones with his counselors,
Francis Webster and Henry Leigh, and
several other brethren were in attendance
and by request a number of them addressed
the congregation, their good counsel being
duly appreciated by all present.
	The business attended to during the con-
ference was the reading of reports and sus-
taining of local officers. Sister Ann E.
Webster was sustained as first counselor to
Stake President Mary Ann Lunt, thereby
filling the vacancy caused by the death of
Sister Sage T. Jones. Sister Webster acted
in the capacity of president of the Cedar Re-
lief Society from 1886 to 1897, when she
was honorably released, her successor
being Ann A. Thorley with Mary A. Arm-
strong and Lucy M. Jones first and second
counselors.
	During the past year quite a number of
the sisters belonging to the Cedar Society
have been called away by the hand of death
and their presence and their words of
counsel are alike missed. In January two
members, Margaret Unthank and Margaret
Froyd, both faithful good workers in our
Society every ready to assist and for a
number of years acting as teachers, depart-
ed from us, also Sister Amanda Rollo,
another good, faithful member soon follow-
ed. Death is inevitable, hence the necessity
of living not for ourselves alone but by do-
ing good whenever we have the opportuni-
ty, if only by a kind word.
	Conference was adjourned to meet at
Paragoonah in three months.
	J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND.
	At the request of our president, Sister
Sarah Barber, and also the members of this


[Column 1]
the Nottingham branch Relief Society, I
pen these few lines to you thinking perhaps
you would like to know how the Lord’s
vineyard is getting along here.
	Sister Barber desired me to tell you of a
social gathering we had at our meeting in
this the new year, which was held at the
home of our president. We had a very en-
joyable time all the evening. All the
members of the Relief Society were present,
also a few non-members. After supper
some of the sisters rendered some good
songs and speeches. A good spirit pre-
vailed throughout and we all felt a renewed
determination to help each other as well as
the poor, and to do all we could to promul-
gate the Gospel.
	It would perhaps interest you to know
that a great many of the members in the
summer go out with the Elders and help
them in the singing, and their labors are
bearing fruit already. We have quite a
few investigators in the branch, some who are
going to be baptized at the first opportunity.
We have very good meetings on Sundays
and a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit is
always present.
	I will close praying that the Spirit of the
Lord will always be with us to guide us in-
to the path of purity and right.
				Your sister in the Gospel
				EDITH CABLE, Sec. R. S.
	February 19, 1898.
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED. 
	Minutes of 21st ward Relief Society held
in the Society hall Feb. 3, 1898. Meeting
opened by singing “Come let us anew.”
Prayer by Brother James Maxwell. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.” Counselor Martha B. Taylor pre-
sided.
	Elder L. John Nuttall offered some pre-
liminary remarks relative to the object and
purpose of the organization of the Relief
Society as contemplated by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and referred to the manner
of keeping accounts so as to consume as lit-
tle time as possible when assembled together
in meeting. Said while the distribution
of donations was an important part. still
there were higher motives and objects to be
attained by meeting together. We should
have lectures in the Society and endeavor to
use the time profitably, other than a few
bearing practically the same testimony over
and over again.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne, president of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, made
some very excellent remarks relative to the
purpose and organization of the Relief Soci-
ety, and said that the young as well as the
elderly people should associate themselves
with the Society.
	Bishop M. S. Woolley said he was
pleased to meet with the sisters this after-
noon, and that the Society was a great as-
sistance to the Bishops in caring for the
poor and encouraged all to go on with the
work.
	Sister Ann O. Burt tendered her resigna-
tion as president and director of the 21st
ward Relief Society, the same was read by
Bishop M. S. Woolley. On motion the resig-
nation was unanimously accepted. On
motion Sister Frances L. Castleton was
elected a director of the Society.
	Bishop M. S. Woolley read the resigna-
tion of Sister Annie M. Reynolds as director
and secretary of the Society, which was un-
animously accepted. On motion Sister
Mary A. Tuddenham was elected a director.
	Sister Jane Mulholland tendered her

[Column 2]
verbal resignation as director and treasurer.
On motion the resignation was unanimously
accepted. On motion Sister Helen V.
Lyon was elected a director.
	The following names were suggested by
Bishop M. S. Woolley: Eliza Barton as
president; Martha B. Taylor as first counsel-
or; Frances L. Castleton as second counsel-
or; Mary A. Tuddenham as secretary;
Helen V. Lyon as treasurer. On motion
the above named persons were unanimous-
ly sustained.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde spoke relative to
the mission and organization of the Soci-
ety as contemplated by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and solciited the attendance of the
younger and middle aged women at the
meetings. Made mention of the fact that
Sister Eliza R. Snow was about thirty-
eight years of age when the Society was or-
ganized by the prophet.
	President Joseph E. Taylor said he had
been invited by the Bishop to attend this
meeting as there was contemplated changes
in the Society, and feeling an interest in all
the branches was present. He had been
called upon on several occasions to adjust
differences that existed between the Bishop
and officers of some branches of the Relief
Society. Thought the sisters should be
given all the liberty possible io magnify
their office. The sisters in return should
gather the strength of the Priesthood and
be in harmony with the Bishop and counsel-
ors of the ward. Cautioned the sisters in
their meetings relative to the gift of tongues
and thought we should confine ourselves
within the proper limits and seek for the
Spirit of God in our gatherings.
	Counselor H. J. Foulger referred to the
past labors of Sister Ann O Burt as presi-
dent, the difficulties the sisters met with
when first organized, and the means em-
ployed by her and Sister Allen in raising a
store on the block to benefit the Society.
Moved that a hearty vote of thanks be
tendered her for her past labors, and that
the blessing of the Almighty might rest up-
on her.
	A vote of thanks was also tendered Sis-
ters Reynolds and Mulholland for their
past efficient labors in the Society, all of
which were unanimous. The Doxology
was sung and meeting closed with benedic-
tion by Bishop M. S. Woolley.
	Meeting at the residence of Sister Eliza
Barton at 5.30 p. m. Sister Barton through
illness was unable to attend the meeting at
the Society hall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WOMAN'S office building is to be erect-
ed in St. Louis. The offices will be rented
to business women or to people having busi-
ness with women.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob.
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study.
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personally or by
letter with
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D
75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts. 
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

CONFERENCE RATES
VIA
Rio Grande Western Railway.
	For the Annual Conference, L. D. S., and
Woman’s Conference, L. D. S., at Salt Lake City,
April 6th to 9th, inclusive, the usual half rates and
arrangements have been put into effect via the Rio
Grande Western Railway.
	TICKETS will be sold on following dates: From
Ogden, Park City, Bingham, Springville, Silver
City and intermediate points, from April 5th to 9th,
inclusive; tickets limited to April 15th, 1898. From
all other points April 4th to 8th, inclusive; tickets
limited to April 18th, 1898, except Grand Junction,
Fruita and Cisco, at which points tickets are on
sale only on April 5th, limited to date of sale on
going trip, with final limit April 18th.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1898.


CONTENTS:

	Notice to Those Interested in Silk Culture in
Utah—Margaret A. Caine. How to Build a Gran-
ary on Nothing—Julia A Pace. A Rambling
Letter—Grandma. Mrs. E. B. Wells—Lydia D.
Alder. General Relief Society Conference—E. B.
Wells. U W. P. C.—M. A. J. Lambert. A Birth-
day Party—Sarah A. Robison. Same Reminiscen-
ces. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam. Utah His-
torical Society. Clara Barton Arrives. The War
Question. The Cleofan—Clara T. Felt. A
Dream—Eugenie Ceophas.
	EDITORIAL:—The April Conference. “No Man
Knoweth.” Editorial No es.
	POETRY:—Springtime—Augusta Joyce Crocher-
on. Life’s Pilgrimage—Ellis R. Shipp. Sleep
Well Brave Heart—Ma y Lowe Dickinson.


For the Exponent.
SPRINGTIME.

AH! my love, come here.
Winter's breaking spring is waking,
Hark! a lark sings clear;
From the lakes the flocks are taking
Flight to northward, and I hear
’Neath the ice the ripples making
Music to the ear.
Soon the green will sprin[-],
Where the snow lay shall be pathway,
Sweet with blossoming;
From the glens a chorus ringing,
Will bear outward and away,
Message sweet in echoes singing
Of the coming May.
And the days shall gain 
Each one faire, bringing rarer 
Gifts than flowers that throw
Perfume to the winds, their bearer;
Colors, odors, changing so
Into gifts to each glad sharer—
Autumn’s harvests show.
So, for human hearts
From beginning, still is winging 
Where each lifeway starts,
From Above (sweeter than singing)
Flight to earthward—nothing parts  
Or can turn the angel, bringing
Help to waiting hearts. 
And a voice calls “Here.”
Earth-bands breaking, joy is waking—
Hark!  the song draws near—
From the death-clasp souls are taking
Flight up heavenward and they hear
O'er earth’s mourners angels making,
Welcomes sweet and clear. 
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, March 31, 1898.


[Column 1]
LIFE’S PILGRIMAGE. 
‘Is life worth the living?” the millionaire said,
As he rose in the morn from his soft, downy bed,
In his palace of grandeur surrounded by wealth, 
And all that could add to his comfort or health–
Yet he oft-times exclaims “Is life worth the liv-
	ing?”
“Is life worth the living?” the laborer asks
As he trudges along to his wearisome tasks,
The beauties of nature spread out to his sight,
He is blind to these charms: he feels no delight,
And says in his soul “Life’s not worth the living.”

[Column 2]
“Is life worth the living?” the poor pauper cries—
With cravings of hunger and deep smothered 
	sighs,
So little to cheer him, so many desires, 
Neglected and weary he often inquires—
Poor broken spirit! “Is life worth the living?”

“Is life worth the living?” the epicure yawns,
While the sycophant near him insipidly fawns
With satiated tastes and o’er-clouded brains,
They drink and carouse, on their ill-gotten gains,
Ah, well one may ask “Are such lives worth
	living?”

‘Life’s not worth the living,” the pessamist thinks,
As he finds to what depths humanity sinks,
The dark, cloudy side is all that he sees, 
Pain, sickness and sorrow and mental disease,
So sagely concludes “Life’s not worth the liv-
	ing.”

“But life is worth living,” the optimist writes,
Every hour is giving the sweetest delights,
this beautiful world! has its sunshine and 
	flowers;
And science and truth are increasing the powers
Of brain, heart and soul: True! life’s worth the
	living.”

“This world is so pretty!” the little child lisps,
As she smells the new hay and plays with its 
	wisps,
The songs of the birds, and flowers are sweet,
And the green grass is cool and soft for my feet,
While God up in Heaven these blessings is giv-
	ing.”

“Life is worth living!” the youth now exclaims,
As he thinks of the future and makes lofty aims;
“I’ll try to be good and noble and great,
Prove faithful and true to my second estate, 
And make the world better because of my living.”

“Life is worth living!” says the maiden in bliss,
As she bends her fair head for her lover’s first
	kiss.
“The earth is o’er spread with roseate hue,
The world is all love, the sky is so blue!
And ne’er did life seem so much worth the
	living!”

“Life is worth living!” says husband and wife, 
As they walk hand in hand the journey of life; 
“We’ll share every sorrow and joy as they come,
We will try to bring sunshine into our home, 
And rear sons and daughters worthy of living.”

“Yes life is worth living!" the mother replies, 
As she looks in the depths of her baby’s brown 
	eyes.
“I must polish this jewel and make it so bright 
That ’twill shine to the world with radiant light,
And make all men feel that life is worth living.”

‘Life is worth living!” are the words that he gave
As he tottered so near to the brink of the grave. 
“I’ve lived ninety years, seen life’s ups and downs,
But with all of its turmoil, its cares and its frowns
I continue to think that life is worth living.”

Ah, live’s worth the living! though drear it of
	seems,
And our seasons of joy are like fast fleeling
	dreams.
The infinite bliss of a being on earth;
With the exquisite hope of a Celestial birth!
Help us bear all its cares and make life worth
	the living. 

[Column 3]
“Yes life is worth living," the Christian declares
“With all of its trials, its sins and its snares,
For through stern experience wisdom is gained, 
A triumph o’er self and the world is obtained, 
And mankind are secured a life everlasting.”
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


NOTICE TO THOSE INTERESTED IN
        SILK CULTURE IN UTAH.
   THE Utah Silk Commission desires to
call attention to the fact that the time for
raising silk is again upon us, and we trust
that those who intend entering upon the
work this year will write to us at once for
eggs. Those who are taking up the work
for the first time will kindly state the num-
ber and size of the trees from which they
can obtain leaves; also the number of per-
sons who can give their time during the
latter period of the raising season, so that
we will be able to send the necessary
amount of eggs.
   We also desire to state that eggs can be
obtained from the Commission free, and we
would prefer everyone who is going to
raise the worms to have seed from us as we
provide a quality which gives a much bet-
ter result than those raised by people hav-
ing little or no experience. We will send
pamphlet of instruction free to those wish-
ing any information upon the subject.
   We trust that many people throughout
the State have already planted numbers of
mulberry trees, and have been watchful lest
any of those which have grown are in dan-
ger of being destroyed. We also wish to
say to those who have trees and do not care
to use them, that they may do a great deal
towards establishing this important industry
by allowing others to use the leaves, and
we assure you that it will only benefit the
trees, even if they are stripped several times
they will soon become much more thrifty,
and this will also be a means of disposing
of the fruit which is sometimes an annoy-
ance, especially when trees are planted on
the street.
   As a whole the Commission feels very
much encouraged with the result of last
year’s work, and trust it will be very much
increased this year. Address all communi-
cations to
		MARGARET A. CAINE,
	Secretary Utah Silk Commission.
				Salt Lake City Utah.


FRANCES WILLARD wrote to her friend
Mrs. Bain of Kentucky, who had just lost a
daughter: "Dear sister Ann, how much
richer are you than I! Here I sit alone
without a child to die, while you are moth-
er to an angel."
THE principal women thus far mentioned
as candidates for the presidency of the Gen-
eral Federation of Women’s Clubs, to suc-
ceed Mrs. Henrotin, are Mrs. Alice Ives
Breed, of Massachusetts; Mrs. Sarah S.
Platt, of Colorado; Mrs. William Tod
Helmuth, of New York; Mrs. Edwin
Longstreth, of Pennsylvania, and Mrs.
Susan Riley Ashley, of Colorado.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[column 1]
HOW TO BUILD A GRANARY ON
NOTHING.

	THE St. George Relief Society was in a
quandary. Conference had closed and for
the thousandth time the subject of the stor-
ing of grain had been discussed. But this
time the Spirit had seemed more urgent
than ever before. With an omnious war-
cloud hanging over our very heads; with
tales of suffering and starvation of the most
appaling nature in various parts of our little
earth being brought to us daily; with late
frosts nipping the tender buds of our fruit
trees right at home, the theme refused to be
folded away in its accustomed napkin to
await the regular quarterly resurrection.
There it hovered, outlined in bold relief
against a background of foretold want and
misery and refused to be downed. 
	But what was to be done? An inventory
of the resources of the Society revealed half
a dozen patch-work quilts, some finished,
others in course of construction; a few pairs
of partly finished stockings and socks, a lim-
ited quantity of carpet rags, and a very
small amount of credit at the various indus-
trial and manufacturing concerns of the
country.
	“But we’ve got to have a granary,” said
the officers. “There is no getting around
it. It haunts us night and day, and we
cannot afford to have our health ruined by
insomnia,” so they put their heads to-
gether. The result was a committee.
What that committee was about was for a
time a secret. But it finally leaked out that
we were to have a “Bee.” It was not to
be a rag bee or a quilting, but a “Bee” to
which all our husbands and brothers and
sons were to be invited. They were not to
sip tea and knit socks for Sam, Dick and
Harry, but were to bring themselves, their
wagons and teams, gather the material and
build a granary.
	A day was set, and such a response! At
least one hundred and seventy-five men an
boys, with twenty-five good teams and 
wagons made lively times in the vicinity of
the Lyceum. There being a great many
more than could be utilized on the granary
a brigade was organized to clear up the
streets and renovate crossings, etc., and
another to devote themselves to fixing up
the Tabernacle grounds. Such a spirit of
unity and good feeling as prevailed among
them is seldom witnessed. Every one
seemed desirous of doing somebody else a
good turn, and seemed the happier when-
ever a slight circumstance or accident rend-
ered assistance necessary.
	During this time the ladies of the popu-
lace were not idle, as the following very
tempting menu will testify. As one of the
committee remarked, “We seated one hun-
dred and fifty men at dinner, and fed the
five thousand in the evening.” “And did
you gather up ten basketsfull after the
feast?” I asked. “I really believe we did,”
was the reply.
	Menu: Chickens roasted and boiled,
sixteen; baked beans, sixteen pans; toma-
toes, ten quarts; bread, forty-six loaves;
butter, twenty pounds; salmon, three cans;
eggs fried, thirty dozen; rice puddings,
seven; beef, three large joints; ham, three
large dishes; potatoes, thirty pounds; pick-
les, eight quarts; milk, eight quarts; sugar,
twenty-five pounds; pies, one hundred and
ten; cakes, fifty-four; fruits, thirty-two
quarts; tarts ad infinitum.
	In addition to the above, various articles
were given in which could not be used at

[Column 2]
the time, but which will come in useful
in the future. Quite a little sum was
also realized in cash, store pay, tithing pay
and factory pay, all of which will assist in
the good work.
	Now as to the labor accomplished:
Masonry about				$115,00.
Rock hauling, 96 perches		57.50.
Clay, 10 loads					5.00.
Sand						12.00.

Total work on granary			$189.50.
	In addition to the above thirty-five loads
of shale were hauled into the Tabernacle
yard, nearly as many more at street cross-
ings and a number of loads of rock for the
new school building in course of construc-
tion. All this, with the good work of the
street crossing committee would foot up a
grand total, could we arrive at the exact
figures.
	An entertainment was tendered the gen-
tlemen, their wives and sweethearts, in the
evening in the theatre. A nice program
was rendered, tempting refreshments served
after which the remainder of the time was
spent pleasantly in dancing.
	Dear Aunt Em and the readers of the
“Exponent” pardon this long contribution.
I have given the particulars thus in detail
in the hope that it might inspire some
others having similiar desires, but a deficien-
cy of the wherewithal, to go forth and do
likewise, with this example of successful
effort before them.
	Our granary will have a capacity of two
thousand bushels, and we expect to have it
ready to receive the wheat at harvest time.
Our success has made us bold, and we will
be pardoned for asserting that we do not
anticipate any trouble in getting grain to
put into it.
	We trust that the end and aim of this
communication may speedily be realized in
learning of some other struggling Society
making an effort in this necessary direction.
			JULIA A. PACE, Cor. Sec.
	St. George Stake.


A RAMBLING LETTER.

	WINTER is beginning to wane and the
farmers are commencing to prepare for seed
time. The school land is in the market,
and our friends and relatives are coming
here to make their homes and fortunes in
this land of “Uncle Sam.” The boom-
ers land is all that seems to be lying idle
now; perhaps when all the rest is improved
this will sell to someone who needs a home.
	We had a good attendance at our Relief
Society conference, which was held at Idaho
Falls on the 13th of last month. The house
was comfortably filled, especially in the
afternoon, although it was blowing a
very keen wind from the south. The new
meeting house is a very nice edifice and
does credit to the ward. I hope we will be
as successful at Willow Creek. We received
some good instructions from the presidency
of the Stake, also from Sister Bennett and
counselors, our lady presidency of the Stake
of Bingham. Our young people are looking
forward to a treat, their conference coming
on the 16th of this month. We are very
proud of this Association. Our officers both
of the Stake and of the ward are efficient in
their abilities and energy. We parents are
glad to see the young people growing up to
be useful and trying to learn the principles
of the Gospel, which they do when they

[Column 2]
are interested in their Mutual Improvement
Associations. We rejoice that we are in
possession of a religion that will make a
happy people.
	The District Court is in session at this
time, and as usual divorces are being called
for and granted. It is alarming, I think,
that so many divorces seem to be needed.
I hope that our young people will, and I
believe they do, appreciate the plain counsel
they are getting; truly the ax is being laid
at the root of the tree. I believe one cause
why so much petty jealousy and unpleasant-
ness arises in so many families commences
through lack of confidence in one another;
and why this lack of confidence ? If we
would trace it back sometimes we would find
it was because of undue liberty before mar-
riage; and therefore lack of confidence in
one another leads to disrespect and disre-
spect to hate, hence the only way they can
see out is to get divorced, and often this is
“jumping out of the frying pan into the
fire.”
	Are we profiting by the many sermons
we hear? A woman who was born in the
Church but had married into an apostate
family, said to me one day that she could
see little difference in church going people
or in their children who attended Sabbath
School, and those who did not; she failed to
see any difference in those who prayed or
those that were taught to pray, and those
who did not. Her children, she said, were
just as good as anybody’s, and they did not
pray. I told her that we who attended
meetings and prayed did not profess to be
perfect., that the Church was a school and
some of us are very dull and slow to learn
it is true, and profit very little by attending
meetings perhaps; but there are two natures
in mankind, human and divine: “To err is
human; to forgive divine.” Those who
pray cultivate the divine nature, they can
forgive. I said to her “You are not happy
when you treasure up some trifle which
you imagine is so bad that a neighbor or
neighbor’s child has done or said. You
may sometimes forgive one who believes as
you do, but one who is trying to be a Saint
you cannot forgive, you do not seek the
spirit of forgiveness.” She said, “Well I
am satisfied, I would not have my children
blessed nor baptized, because I will not
allow religion to interfere when their father
does not believe in it. He is a good pro-
vider and that is all I want.” “Well,” I
said, “we will not enjoy this life always
and we must prepare for an eternity. I
want my children to go to Sabbath School,
also to be baptized and confirmed, that they
may be able to cultivate, if they are dili-
gent, the higher nature, this is the object,
I believe, of all religious meetings whether
of individuals, associations, Sabbath School
meetings or meetings of worship; they are
for the cultivation of our higher natures. If
the partakers of all these benefits are not
any better for them it is not the fault of the
Church nor the teachers in the Church, but
those who are idle.”
	That we may still work for the building
up of the kingdom is the desire of
						GRANDMA.
	Willow Creek, Bingham, Idaho.


"EMPRESS AUGUSTA VICTORIA, of Ger-
many, found 144 German servant girls last
year to whom she could give the golden
servants’ cross for having lived forty years
with one family. Only one was found in
Berlin”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


I HEARD the gentle murmur
   Of voices strange and sweet;
And the indistinct low music 
   Of hosts of marching feet.
And then I heard the murmur
   Of a thousand voices say;
“All hail sweet sacred morning!
   Rejoice! ’tis Easter day?
Awake! awake, O nature!
   O joy-bells loudly ring!
Awake for Christ is risen,
   And praise is due our King”
			ELIZABETH A. VORE.


SLEEP WELL BRAVE HEART.

	[Written while Mrs. Dickinson sat by the side
of Miss Willard’s casket Monday, Feb 21, 1898.]
SLEEP well, brave heart, beloved of Christ and
	crowned,
		He gives thee sleep.
The wide world’s love enwraps thy slumber round,
		God gives thee sleep.
His angels smile; His stricken children weep;
Yet smiles, nor tears, shall break thy blessed
	sleep.
Oh, wondrous face! whose mystic, solemn grace
		O’er-floods the gloom,
Till grief—in all this sorrow-haunted place—
		No more finds room.
Show us, dear God, what glory greets her eyes,
Let us, too, hear the voice that bids her rise.
Chide not our tears! So weak we are and blind,
		Yet she would share 
Her gladness with us who are left behind.
		Heed Thou our prayer!
Not yet. Not yet? Tarries the vision still?
Then, grant us, Lord—with her—to love Thy will
To work Thy will, to follow where she trod, 
		Without a fear;
To drink her cup; to climb the heights of God
		Knowing her near;
To make her joy more joyful by our strife.
So may we share even here her glorious life.
So may our homes, our land in shame so long, 
		Be cleansed from wrong;
So may our breaking hearts through love be 
	strong,
		Through love be strong.
Bless still, through us, earth’s sinning and op-
	pressed.
Thy work rests not, dear heart. Take thou the
	rest.
			MARY LOWE DICKINSON,
—Union Signal


[Column 1]
MRS. E. B. WELLS.

Published by request.
	THE pleasing duty has been assigned to
me to write a few thoughts of my esteemed 
friend Mrs. E. B. Wells. Behold this gather-
ing! Women associated in two clubs, the
Press and the Reapers, whose organizer she
is. Here are women of intelligence, poets, 
writers and thinkers, whose common aim is
to elevate themselves, to understand and
further develop the God given talents given
to them.
	On each one she bestows personal care
and encouragement. Each one can tell of
many times when by her counsel she has
been strengthened, and the resolution
formed to make another effort.
	Editor of the “Exponent” for many
years, her words are read the world over.
Its columns are open to the women of Utah
irrespective of nationality or creed. Being
the organ of the Relief Society one of the larg-
est organizations of women in the world,

[Column 2]
Mrs. Wells its secretary—the labor per-
formed by the women of Mormondom is
outlined. All may read the page. The
publication referred to is an advocate of the
principles of truth. Gems of thought both
prose and poetry adorn it.
	This noble woman after spending a life-
time in aiding the poor, relieving their dis-
tress and speaking the comforting word to
those bowed down in sorrow, at the age of
seventy years gives to the world her book
of choice poems.
	“Musings and Memories” just issued
from the press is the crowning effort of her
life. It is replete with beautiful thoughts,
spun in threads of light and sparkling with
rare intelligence. Many of the poems con-
tain sublime pathos combined with sweet
simplicity. I will mention “At Last.”

“There must be something we desire to gain,
	A recompense for pacing to and fro,
Some sweet fruition which we would obtain,
	Or greater wisdom that we fain would know.
And this is why we toil on and endure—
	Do battle ’mid life’s trials, storms and strife,
Because we feel that there is something sure
	That we shall find, within a higher life.”

	Thoughts reaching out to the majesty on
high in “Meditation.”

“My soul has gone forth in its wandering, 
	To the hills that are purple with light;
Those temples that tower everlasting,
	In their majesty, grandeur and might.

But the life giving means is the marvel,
	The mystery, past knowledge and skill;
No man can the secret unravel;
	It abideth in God at His will.”

	Whisperings of a pre-existence is awak-
ened in “Shadows and Whisperings.”

“I sometimes think I must have lived before,
	In a much brighter fairer world than this;
That I have stepped from that enchanted shore,
	As though I woke from out a dream of bliss,
Where soft hands lingered in a fond caress
	Upon my head, to soothe me and to bless.”

	A life beyond the grave is shadowed in
“Thoughts and Memories of a Summer
Hour.”

“Tears fall and mingle with the pearly dew,
	And flowers spring up afresh where all was drear;
And something whispers of a life more true,
	Where perfect love will reign devoid of fear.”

	Comforting words to the weary heart,
faint unto weeping and worn with many
prayers, are sung to the “Bereaved Mother.”

E’en if weary and broken hearted,
	With that which thou deemest loss;
Although from the dearest ones parted,
	He will help thee bear thy cross;
And if the ordeal seems cruel,
	The Father will make it right,
And the brighter thy precious jewel,
	Will shine in the realms of light.”

	The beauties of nature are extolled. One
thinks of the beautiful earth clothed in ver-
dure, arrayed in flowers, with singing
birds, oceans grand and forest shades.

“O, how we yearn to understand still more
	The mysteries that nature has concealed;
The knowledge of her science—hidden lore,
	Which unto none of us has been revealed.
Nor will it be till we have proved how true
	Our trust has been in what we came to do.”

	How sweet is sympathy! a slender gold-
en chain it links suffering hearts together.
Tears of sorrow touched the Master’s heart 

[Column 3]
whose chords vibrated at sight of human
woe, and Jesus wept. From “Sorrow and
Sympathy.”

“And as we do to others, in their need,
	Loving our neighbor as the Savior taught;
Then we are sowing broadcast precious seed,
	And we shall reap a harvest where we’ve
	wrought;
For if our faith fail not and we endure,
Then all our Father’s promises are sure.” 

	Love the best thing in the world, all
powerful, everlasting and enduring in
“Autumnal Musings.”

“The harp strings may be shattered,
And the rose leaves may be scattered,
	But the memory still remaineth;
And the love that we have cherished,
And the hope that we have nourished,
	The immortal soul retaineth.”

	How beautiful are spiritual thoughts!
So near to the gates of glory that stray
beams shine through the golden bars, and
mingling with the perfumed air, strains of
softest melody float over the purple hills of
Paradise. They soothe the aching heart
and throbbing brain. O, just over there is
a “Home Immortal.”

“No more weeping, no more sighing,
	No more agonizing fears;
And no requiem for the dying;
	Chanted ’mid the falling tears.

Sweetest strains of music ringing,
	Echo through the wide domain,
Choirs of heavenly voices singing,
	“Nevermore to part again.’”

	Some lives go out in glory. Like the
sun blazing as it sinks below the horizon,
casting its reflection far over the heavens of
burning ships heaving and tossing, flaming
chariots moving slowly along and seas of
somber blue bordered by fleecy clouds edged
with gleams of gold. The mountains catch
the radiance, and high up their sides wide
valleys appear, even deep ravines are gilded
by the grand effulgence of the sun’s last
gorgeous rays.
	Well may this, our friend, feel proud of
her life’s work, and many will rise up and
call her blessed. On history’s page her
name is written in letters of gold.
	May her heart be comforted, her head
rest lightly on her pillow, her beautiful faith
in God our Father constantly increase.
	Mrs. Wells, accept the love and congratu-
lations of your friends, who join in wishing
you many happy returns of your natal day,
and in saying “The world is better for
your having lived in it.”
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


MRS. MANNING, of Albany, N. Y., the
new president of the National Society of
the Daughters of the American Revolution,
was born Mary Margaretta Fryer, and her
ancestors on her father’s side were Dutch.
On her mother’s side she goes back to
Robert Livingston, first Lord of the manor
of Livingston, to whom was given the or-
iginal grant. Among her more famous an-
cestors are Philip Livings’on, the second
lord; Col. Peter R. Livingston, Governor
Rip Van Dam, Abraham de Peyster. Olaff
Stevenson Van Courtlandt and Col. Peter
Schuyler. Her late husband, Daniel Man-
ning, was secretary of the treasury during
Cleveland’s first administration. Mrs.
Manning entertained with much grace dur-
ing her residence in Washington, and her
house in Albany, is one of the stateliest in
that city.						Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one me, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY APRIL 15, 1898.


THE APRIL CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Church
which commenced on April 6, and closed
its session on April 10, Sunday afternoon,
was one of the best, if not the very best
conference ever held in this valley. The
Spirit of God was specially manifest to all
who were present and the teachings and in-
struction given were received with joy and
gladness by the assembled multitudes. Cer-
tainly the Saints were fed with the bread of
life.
	The music and singing was of the most
exalted character, uplifting to the soul and
in harmony with the entire spirit that pre-
vailed throughout these sacred gatherings,
for it was indeed like a continued Sabbath
	The testimonies of prophets and apostles
were powerful and impressive and must
carry conviction of truth and earnestness to
the hearts of those who listened to the
words of divine inspiration.
	President Woodruff at the advanced age
of ninety-one years standing in the great
congregation and bearing testimony day
after day and time after time was a wonder-
ful manifestation of spiritual power, in that
he not only was able to make the people
hear in that great edifice, but his ideas were
more clearly and forcibly presented than
ever, if that were possible. The last after-
noon of the Sabbath day was so rich in in-
spirational teaching applicable to the times
and condition of the people, that one could
not but feel vividly the presence of heaven-
ly beings, even though they may not
have been seen by mortal eyes. Certainly
the power of the Holy Ghost was percept-
ble to thousands of witnesses.


"NO MAN KNOWETH."

	IN the midst of the excitement that pre-
vails not only in the United States and the
Congress thereof but elsewhere throughout
many foreign countries, one cannot help
feeling how uncertain the near future is to
the world of mankind. At one moment
war seems imminent and perhaps inevitable
then there seems a lull and a tendency to-
wards peace negotiations, and before quiet
can settle more news comes of commotion
and turmoil and more outrages in Cuba,
and it would indeed seem "the world is
turning upside down," if not quite turned.
Any one with a prophetic nature must be
forcibly reminded of predictions concerning
the war that have been foretold would take
place in the last days, and also calamities of


various kinds, and therefore those who be-
lieve these things are watching carefully
the signs of the times and are praying
earnestly that the Lord will over-rule all
things according to His divine will and to
further His purposes in the earth.
	It is ardently to be desired that the Lat-
ter day Saints follow the counsel of the ser-
vants of the Lord in all these matters and
surely the counsel given at the recent con-
ference ought to be a guide to those who
are anxious to keep the commandments of 
God. The Saints know that they shoul
refrain from all evil and wicked thoughts
and desires, but if called to go to battle for
their country they would undoubtedly be
as ready to stand by the stars and stripes as
any men in the United States. The “Mor-
mon” people have never been accused of cow-
ardice, and they have proved in times past
that the call of their country should be
obeyed whatever might be the circumstanc
es, as in the call when the Nauvoo battalion
was fitted out at a time of great emergency
when traveling from Nauvoo across the
country five hundred men left their famil-
ies homeless, to go to Mexico. This event
has passed into history. But for the sake of
humanity it is to be hoped that peace will
spread her white wings over the country
and that under the shadow of her wings
Cuba may find refuge from war and blood-
shed, famine and disease and all the attend-
ant evils that follow a relentless and blood-
thirsty foe. 
	Yet no man knoweth what shall be the
consequence of these uprisings, and the ex-
citement that prevails at the present time
and will not seemingly be settled by arbi-
tration or armistice.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MADAME MOUNTFORD has arrived at
Jerusalem and is at present quartered at
the Howard Hotel. She says in her mes-
sage to the writer, March 24, that she has
not forgotten Zion and desires to be remem-
bered to all inquiring friends.
	THE Welsh prize singers gave their con-
cert in the large Tabernacle early in the
month. Judging from current opinions the
affair was a greal musical success. It seems
to be quite popular to give concerts, lectures
and such like entertainments in the great
“Mormon” Tabernacle.
	MME. MELBA and her grand opera com-
pany arrived in the city last night and will
appear in the large Tabernacle tonight. The
Tabernacle choir will also take part in the
concert to be given. Mme. Melba is an
Australian and takes her stage name from
the city of Melbourne where she was born.
Her bird-like voice has made her famous the
world over. Of her personality or history
very little seems to be known by local peo-
ple in Salt Lake City.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, Tuesday, April 5, 1898. Meeting
commenced at 10 a. m. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Her counselors, Jane S.
Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith were
present, also the secretary, E. B. Wells, and
treasurer, M. Isabella Horne and a number

[Column 2]
of Stake presidents of  the organization.
Meeting opened by singing. “How firm a
foundation.” Prayer by President F. A.
Hammond of San Juan Stake. Singing
“Praise to the man” etc.
	President Zina D. H. Young made an
address of loving welcome to the sisters,
referred to the first organization of the Soci-
ety and stated that many prophecies uttered
then had already come to pass, which gave
us courage to believe that other predictions
would be literally fulfilled. She felt proud
of the daughters of Zion, reminded the con-
gregation that example was better than
precept; we had been blest abundantly
both spiritually and temporally, she thought
if Zion was to be the joy of the whole
world the sisters must have part in it, for a
great part of the world were females. She 
would like to hear the reports of those from
a distance.
	The secretary called the roll of Stakes
and twenty-seven responded. Minutes of
the October conference read and approved.
	President Jane S. Richards was glad we
could assemble in peace and love and medi-
tate on things spiritual when there was so
much stir in the world and talk of war and
so many changes taking place around us,
yet we had no confusion and could rejoice
in the Gospel and try to serve the Lord.
She often wondered if we were living to ob-
tain the promises made to those who were
true and faithful and sought to keep the
commandments given to the Saints. Ex-
horted mothers to be full of love and chari-
ty and kindness, referred to happiness in
the home, what a beautiful thing it was to
look back upon, and for herself it was a
great pleasure to recall her home with her
father and mother. Speaking of kind words
she recalled when she was coming out of
Nauvoo there was a brother who used to
speak kind words to her, when she was
very sick and felt as if she had more than
she could bear, it was a very great comfort
to her. Sister Richards urged the sisters to
pray for and sustain the president of the
Relief Society, Sister Zina D. H. Young,
“who needs your faith and who has not been
very well of late, and may we as sisters be
able to do all that will be for our salvation is
my prayer.”
	Sister B. W. Smith after some preliminary
remarks said we had come here to keep our
second estate if we can keep every command-
ment, observe the laws and regulations of
our holy religion, we should be kind and
good and encourage each other, setting
good examples and putting away the love
of riches and lay up treasures where moth
and rust doth not corrupt. Sister Smith
stated her time was mostly spent in the
Temple, she did not go out much to speak
to the sisters but met a great many in the
Temple constantly and she loved them.
“We know this work is true, we must try
and attend to our prayers, be patient and
just, set our minds to do something worthy.
We used to have Brother Joseph to teach
us, he said on one occasion he would not be
with us long and in his prayer at that time
his voice shook.” She would be glad to see
every Society have a house of its own, dedi-
cated on purpose, the brethren ought to as-
sist us, we have helped them so much, we
should have unison in all these things. “It
would be well if our children could realize
what we have passed through for the Gos-
pel, and the Gospel will be more to us than
riches that we may obtain what we desire,
that we may have homes to receive those


who are in need—there will be calamities
and war and famine and sickness, may
every blessing rest upon us in the name of
the Lord, amen.” 
	President M. A. Hyde, Sanpete Stake,
said “I don’t blame the sisters for being
diffident in standing up here, it is hard for
me. I will speak my feelings about a
house, and then when we come from all
parts of the State that there will be a re-
sponse all around. I attended conference
at Ephraim—Sisters Wells and Annie T.
Hyde were with us—the sisters in that
Stake are very industrious and devise many
ways and means to help build up the Soci-
ety.,’ Sister Hyde felt greatly exercised
about the youth of Zion, spoke of some
painful circumstances, the adversary is
evidently doing his part and we should do
ours; rejoiced that there were so many
present and hoped ere long we might meet
in our own house. Sister Hyde then spoke
a few words in the gift of tongues interpret-
ed by Sister Zina D. H. Young.
	President F. A. Hammond of San Juan
Stake, represented the Relief Society in the
unavoidable absence of the president: in the
course of his remarks he said, “I make it a
rule of my life to attend the conferences of
the Church and have always been blest in
attending. I don’t believe I ever have lost
a cent by coming.” Spoke well of the Re-
lief Society in his Stake, felt that the Soci-
ety was one of the strongest helps that the
Bishops had, the sisters not only pour in
the oil and the wine when any thing is
wanted but in other ways are helpful. “I
have been a strong advocate for the sisters
these many years, I take pleasure in their
labors, I have looked forward to the time
when the sisters would be sent on missions,
Sister Jennie Brimhall and Sister Lulu
Knight have been set apart and are now on
their way to England, our sisters will be
sent off to the nations of the earth and they
should have a knowledge for themselves.
I have advocated the education of our girls,
for this reason I am in favor of Church
schools. Speaking of a house for our sis-
ters I feel it is a proper thing, and it should
be a house dedicated for the purpose, there
is not a ward or Stake house where the sis-
ters have not aided; the Bishops throughout
Zion should help build a house for the Re-
lief Society. Sisters my faith is you will
succeed, a house where the general author-
ities would hold and arrange the affairs of
the Society. I feel to bless Aunt Zina and
her counselors, I have known them for
years, this is my prayer in the name of
Jesus.”
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
President M. Isabella Horne.
				E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	THE ladies of the U. W. P. C. met ac-
cording to adjournment Thursday evening,
March 31, 1898. Club was called to order
by President Romania B. Pratt. Prayer by 
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder. Roll call with re-
sponse from Spanish authors. Under un-
finished business the question of issuing re-
ceipts for membership fees was discussed.
A motion in its favor by Mrs. Emily S.
Richards wascarried. A motion was made
and carried that the club subscribe
$5.00 from the treasury for charter mem-
bership in the George Washington Memor-
ial Association, was carried.


In the General Council of Woman’s Clubs
the Press Club was given the appointment
of secretary from its membership. A letter
was read from Ruth M. Fox contain
ing a statement to that effect and a motion
by Mrs. E. B. Wells was carried to the ef-
fect that President Pratt make the appoint-
ment after time for deliberation.
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read an invitation
given by the Inqueires Club to the Press
Club to attend a lecture by Rev. Alfred
Henry, to be given Monday April 4th, at
2:30 p. m. at the M. E. Church. In behalf
of the club Mrs. Alder accepted the invita-
tion by letter.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells proposed the following
names for acceptance as honorary members:
Mrs. Emily H.Woodmansee, Mrs. Maria Mil-
ler Johnson and Mrs. Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. Motion was seconded and car-
ried.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards then read a very
ably written paper on Portugal followad by
Mrs. E. B. Wells with a beautiful poem “Is
life worth the living?” written by Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp. A short and interesting sketch
of Spain was given in a well written paper
by Mrs. Phebe C. Young. Dr. Orielle Curtis
dealt with Cuba in written words, glowing,
stirring and eloquent.
	Program presented for April 30, as fol-
lows: Paper on Frances E. Willard, E. B.
Wells; Zolo the French author, Helen V.
Kimball; Poem, Lydia D. Alder; Alfred
Austin, England’s Poet Laureate, Edith
Lovsey; sentiments from noted American
women.
	Critics report given, minutes of meeting
read and approved and dismissed with prayer.
	At the close of the meeting a
a dainty lunch was served through the hos-
pitable courtesy of President R. B. Pratt
and Mrs. E. B. Wells, and a social half
hour was agreeably spent.
			M. A. J. LAMBERT, Sec.


A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	MARCH 4, was the birthday of Sister
Sarah S. Forsyth, second counselor to Sis-
ter Jane S. Coleman, president of the Relief
Society of the Wayne Stake of Zion. And
inasmuch as Sister Forsyth expected to move
away from among us, and her labors in the
Society had been very earnest, a birthday
surprise was gotten up for her at the resi-
dence of Sister Margaret J. Taylor, presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Loa ward.
Many of her friends there expressed to her
their appreciation of her labors among the
sick, and the kindness and love she had
shown to the poor and oppressed.
	An excellent dinner was served, after
partaking of which presents were made us
mementoes and keepsakes. Songs and
hymns were sung, and many strong testi-
monies were borne to the truth of the Gos-
pel, and in behalf of Sister Forsyth, kind and
loving speeches were made and her chari-
table works, kind deeds and devotion to
the truth were spoken of. Among the
many who were present were Sister Lucinda
Brown, the oldest inhabitant of Loa Ward,
Margaret Pace and Nancy Blackburn, who
have also passed through the early trials of
the Latter-day Saints. “When shall we all
meet again” was sung to close with, and the
following verses were prepared and presented
to Sister Sarah Forsyth. 
	Tis forty-six years since the day of thy birth,
	Thy spirit untarnished then came to the earth,


To dwell with a people whom God had assigned
The honor of bearing his workto mankind.

Devoted in childhood and faithful in youth,
Your footsteps have trod in the pathway of truth
With hand ever ready the weakest to guide,
As they drifted along on life’s billowy tide.

Your voice has been raised in the conflict of right,
In sunshine of day and darkness of night,
Most freely you’ve striven earth’s children to
	bless,
In times of rejoicing or deepest distress.

Priceless the seed in this life you sow,
Priceless the fruits thy harvest shall know;
Seeds that will spring forth in glory and might,
In a crown for thy head in the mansions of light.

Thy works all await thee on Heaven’s bright.
	shore,
The blessings of Zion have, too, gone before,
The thanks of the hungry thy hand hath fed,
The prayers of the souls thy counsel hath led.

A crown all unfading, eternal, divine,
Where thorns nevermore with roses will twine;
Where nevermore bitter will mingle with sweet
Nor rough be the path, nor weary the feet.

May you live till God’s people are ransomed and
	free,
Live till the wicked from Zion shall flee,
Till the warfare is ended, the victory won,
Then hear the glad tidings “Thy work is well
	done.”
				SARAH A. ROBISON.


SOME REMINISCENCES,

	[Extracts from a letter of Eliza Clayton
Margetts written from Paris, Idaho.]
	AT the age of ten years I, with my par-
ents, emigrated from England and arrived
at Nauvoo in the fall of 1840. Our family
being large, father was counseled by the
Prophet Joseph to go into the country. We
did so and remained away from Nauvoo un-
til the summer of 1841, when we moved
back on account of the persecutions of mob-
ocrats.
	I have a distinct recollection of hearing
Ruth, wife of William Clayton, talk of the
organization of the Female Relief Society,
on her return home from the meeting at
which said organization took place.
	We moved to Carthage in the fall of 1842,
at which place we lived until after the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph and his
brother Hyrum. In the forenoon of the
day on which these atrocious murders were
committed, some of the neighbors disguised
and with painted faces, came to our house
and told mother she had better get out of
the way as they were going to kill the Pro-
phet that day. A terrible storm arose and
in the afternoon we heard the firing of guns
and soon after saw some of the murderers run
away howling like fiends. My sister Lucy
who was at this time living with the jailor’s
family and was at the jail when the shoot-
ing commenced, came home and told what
had happened. The next day I went with
my sister Lucy to the jail, we found the
doors and windows open and everything in
confusion, as though the people had left in
great haste. We went up stairs to the room
in which the Prophet and his brother had
been shot. There was some Church books
on the table and portraits of Joseph’s and
Hyrum’s families on the mantlepiece.
There was blood in pools on the floor and
bespattered on the walls, at sight of which
we were overcome with grief and burst in-
to tears. After becoming somewhat col-


lected, we gathered up what we supposed
belonged to the inmates of the room at the
time of the murder and placed it together
on a trunk that was in the room.
	About three weeks after the massacre of
Joseph and Hyrum we moved back to Nau-
voo. I witnessed the trying scenes the
Saints passed through until they were driv-
en from Nauvoo. I remember a circum-
stance that occurred during what is called
the battle of Nauvoo. While at the well
drawing a bucket of water, a cannon ball
from the enemies’ guns struck the chimney
of the house in which we lived, and so
much frightened me that I got my fingers
fast in the well windlass and in extracting
myself skinned my fingers nearly the whole
length.
	I was among the remnant of the sick and
dying Saints on the banks of the Missis-
sippi after the expulsion, when they were
miraculously fed on quails that alighted in
their midst. When the quails alighted they
lit on our laps and everything around.
After we had caught enough to eat they
flew towards the west like a swarm of bees.
Before this some young men went out into
the woods with their guns to find some
game for their families to eat, and while
they were gone the quail came and had
gone when the got back. They had bad
luck while they were out and killed nothing
and had to come back without anything to
eat for their families, and great was their
joy when they found everybody had plenty
to eat.—Deseret Evening News.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
   .


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

REORGANIZATION.
	I write to inform you of the reorganiza-
tion of the Relief Society of St. John’s
ward, which occurred March 25, 1898.
Anna D. Kempe who had served faithfully
for four years as president, being a widow
and having to work very hard to support
her family felt she was unable to perform
her duty in that position, and therefore
tendered her resignation which was accepted
and she was honorably released. She is a
very energetic woman and is well respected
by the members of the Relief Society as
president, also by the community at large.
	President E. L. S. Udall, Stake president of
the Relief Society being here at the time, a
special meeting was called and President
Udall together with her counselor, Emily
Patterson and the Bishop of the ward, select-
ed the following officers: Margaret Jarvis,
president; Anna L. Anderson, first counsel-
or; Eleanor Patterson, second counselor;
R. B. Berry, secretary; Sina Stradling,
assistant secretary; Sarah Berry, treasurer.
					R. E. BERRY, Sec.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 
	The quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of St. Joseph Stake, Arizona,
convened at Thatcher, March 11, 1898,
Counselor Mary L. Ransom presiding in the
absence of the president, Elizabeth Layton,
who was sustained in that position at the
late reorganization of the Stake, President
Wilmirth East who has filled the office so
long and so well, being honorably released
on account of her advanced age and feeble-
ness.
	After opening exercises and reading of
minutes Counselor Ransom made a few re-
marks. Verbal reports of the several

[Column 2]
branches were given by their representative
presidents or counselors and listened to
with much interest by all present. Visits of
the Stake officers were reported by Counsel-
or Ransom, showing an improvement in all
of the branches of the Society in the Stake,
and a desire to continue in the good work.
She spoke in an interesting and impressive
manner on the duties of officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society, and closed by
praying the blessings of God might be up-
on all.
	President Andrew Kimball gave excellent
counsel to the sisters, in which he said wo-
men have a great influence and should use
it for good.
	After singing, and prayer by Bishop John
Taylor, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	At 12:10 the officers met at the residence
of President Elizabeth Layton, receiving
instructions from Counselor Delia Curtis,
President Elizabeth Layton, President Wil-
liam Johnson and President Andrew Kimball.
	At 2 p. m. conference re-convened.
After singing, and prayer by Bishop George
Skinner, statistical and financial reports
were read. The names of the central board
and Stake officers were presented by Coun-
selor Delia Curtis and unanimously sus-
tained, after which she read a selection
from the Millennial Star.
	Stake president of the Primary, Rebecca
Warren, next addressed the conference, with
Annie Yorgan of Mexico, Secretary Salina
Phillips, Patriarch Samuel Claridge, Presi-
dent W. D. Johnson, Bishop Isaac Zundel
and Treasurer E. Allred following with a
recital of such experiences and testimonies
as would tend to strengthen the faith of all
the Latter-day Saints, praying the Lord to
bless us that we might have power in the
land for good. Benediction was pronounced
by Bishop C. B. Boren.
			SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.
SAN JUAN.
	Minutes of the Stake conference of the
Relief Society of San Juan. Conference
convened at Bluff, Feb. 20, 1898, President
Martha Hammond presiding. Opened with
the usual exercises.
	President Martha Hammond said she
hoped the Lord would pour out a goodly
portion of His Spirit upon the sisters that
we might be blessed and built up during
our conference and better qualified for our
labors and duties in the future as wives,
mothers and Relief Society workers. Re-
ported her labors among the different
branches of the society.
	The several branches in the Stake were
reported as follows: President Kisten Neil-
son said the Bluff ward Relief Society was
in good condition, the sisters being on hand
to donate when necessary and trying to im-
prove and advance in all that is good.
	President Norah Hammond said the mem-
bers of the Mancos society attended when
possible, but on account of the settlement
being scattered it was not possible for
mothers with families of small children to
attend regularly in the winter season, and
for the same reason meetings were not al-
ways held regularly. Said she felt blest
and well paid for the sacrifices she had
made to attend the quarterly conference.
	President Mary M. Jones reported the
Monticello society as being on the improve
during the last six months.
	A letter was read from the president of
the Fruitland branch stating that the soci-
ety was in good condition, a good spirit pre-
vailing among the sisters.

[Column 3]
Stake Counselor Mary N. Jones had been
greatly blest in attending our conference.
Said if the instructions that had been given
in regard to the training of children were
remembered and practiced we would have
better communities and better boys and
girls. Counselor Eliza Redd followed in
the same strain as the previous speakers
in regard to the training of children, and
gave some very good instructions on that
subject.
	Sister Delia Lyman said she was glad that
mothers were waking up to a sense of their
duties and seeing the necessity of keeping
their little boys close around them as they
do their little girls; for they learn many evil
things by roaming the streets.
	Elder Adam Peterson, one of the Young
Mens’ M. I. A. missionaries, was the next
speaker. He said he felt that we could not
do without the Relief Society; spoke elo-
quently of the duties of husbands to wives
and of sons to mothers and sisters. He felt
that woman was worthy of much more than
many gave her credit for; to her we were
indebted for the better and finer parts of our
being. Spoke at some length on obedience
to parents and the priesthood.
	The minutes of the previous conference
were read and approved, after which the
General and Stake officers were unanimous-
ly sustained. President F. A. Hammond en-
dorsed the remarks that had been made.
President Martha Hammond made a few
closing remarks, hoped the sisters would
feel blest in coming to conference, even if
they did have to travel over bad roads.
Conference adjourned for three months,
to be held at Fruitland. The choir sang
“Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah,” and 
Bishop Jens Neilson pronounced the bene-
diction. 
				EVELYN ADAMS, Sec.
SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Sanpete Stake held in Ephraim, March
11, 1898, President M. A. Hyde presiding.
Singing “Come, come ye Saints.” Open-
ing prayer by President Peterson. Singing
“We thank Thee O God for a prophet.” The
following branches were represented: Eph-
raim North ward, Fairview, Mt. Pleasant,
Manti North and South wards, Moroni,
Chester, Ephraim South ward, Mayfield,
Sterling and Freedom. Fountain Green,
Spring City, Milburn, Indianola, Gunnison
and Centerfield were not reported.
	Opening remarks were made by Presi-
dent M. A. Hyde Sister Emmeline B.
Wells spoke at some length upon the neces-
sity of entertaining a spirit of humility and
obedience. Related her impressions when
she first saw the Prophet Joseph.
	President J. D. T. McAllister was the
next speaker. He said he felt that we were
greatly blest in having the privilege of
meeting together, and that we were ac-
quainted with each other before we came
here to prepare for the life to come. Said
the Relief Society was one of the great
helps of the Church and thanked God for it.
Exhorted the sisters to reach out a helping
hand to those who were in affliction, and to
strive to exert a saving influence over those
who were falling by the wayside. Admon-
ished the young people to be pure and
virtuous. Dwelt on the necessity of the
young people of Zion entering the marriage
relation in a proper manner, and invoked
the Divine blessing upon the sisters.
	Singing “Guide Us O, Thou Great Jeho-


[Column 1]
vah.” Benediction by Bishop Anderson.
	Afternoon session. Singing “Now let
us rejoice.” Opening prayer by Brother J.
F. Dorius. President Hyde was pleased
with the reports of the various wards. En-
couraged the storing of grain, and all good
works pertaining to the Relief Society.
	Sister Annie Hyde was pleased to have
another opportunity of meeting with the
sisters of Sanpete, and urged the necessity
of a spirit of love and charity. Said that
the Spirit of the Lord would not dwell
where there was strife and contention. Ex-
horted the mothers to train their children in
the way they should go to become faithful
Latter-day Saints. Also referred to the
Prophet Joseph.
	President M. A. Hyde spoke words of
comfort and blessing to President Peterson
and the sisters in the gift of tongues, which
was interpreted by Sister Wells.
	President Peterson said “We are living in
an interesting age of the world, but the
signs of the times indicate that the end is
near.” Also made some remarks on the
life of the Prophet Elijah.
	Elder Andrew Jensen was the next
speaker. He dwelt upon the duties and re-
sponsibilities of mothers in training the
children when the fathers were absent in
the mission field. Spoke of the danger of
allowing scoffers and unbelievers to associate
with our children, and related a circum-
stance of this kind which had come under
his observation. Eulogized the good
work of the Relief Society.
	“MRS. ANNIE M. BROWN, of Brattleboro,
has been appointed by Attorney General
Griggs as clerk of the United States Attor-
ney’s Department for the district of Ver-
mont. Most of the depositions and other
legal testimony taken stenographically in
Brattleboro and vicinity for some time past
has been taken by Mrs. Brown, and she is
regarded as fully competent.”
	Sister Wells said we should improve in
our duties, but should work on the founda-
tion which has been laid. Paid tribute to
the sterling virtues and good works of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow and others of the aged
and faithful sisters who have labored so
long. Considered the Relief Society the
greatest organization of women in the
world. Was pleased to state that we had
branches of the Relief Society in Chicago,
California, Holland and Scandinavia. She
spoke of the necessity of encouraging the
silk industry.
	Singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by J. F. Dorius.

	SATURDAY MORNING, MARCH 12.

	Opening hymn “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Prayer by Prof. Newton Noyes.
	President M. A. Hyde expressed her
pleasure at seeing so many young ladies
present, and urged them to attend the meet-
ings of the Relief Society. Warned them
against the evils that are abroad in the land
and told them to guard their virtue as a
precious gem.
	Stake Counselor Abbie Shoemaker was
also pleased to see the girls. Exhorted the
sisters to greater faith and humility, and
urged them to teach their children the
principles of the Gospel, especially faith.
Said mothers should warn their children
against the temptations that beset the
young.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde was the next
speaker. She referred to the pleasure she
had experienced the day before in visiting
the Primary. Said it was necessary that

[Column 2]
the young ladies attend the meetings of the
Relief Society, and dwelt at some length on
the subject of love and charity as a means
of binding Satan, as he would no longer
have any influence over the Latter-day
Saints. Said there was no dividing line
between the Relief Society and the Young
Ladies, that they were mother and daugh-
ter. Related some incidents which had oc-
cured on President Woodruff’s birthday,
notably a vision which he had seen similar
to that of John the Revelator concerning
the judgments of the last days.
	Stake Counselor A. L. Cox thanked the
young ladies for responding to the invita-
tion to be present; also thanked the various
Relief Society presidents for their prompt-
ness in responding to every call from the
Stake presidency. Compared the faith and
belief of the Latter-day Saints with that of
the different Christian churches, and by
way of illustration referred to a funeral
which she had attended where a Presbyter-
ian minister had officiated. Exhorted the
sisters to renewed diligence in subscribing
for the “Exponent,” that it may have the
necessary support to continue its publication.
	Sister Wells also expressed her pleasure
at meeting with the young ladies. Said
they could not fail to be benefited, and said
that a spirit had manifested itself in
some localities among the young people that
the Relief Society was an old fogy institu-
tion, but that it was an altogether wrong
impression and that the experience of the
older sisters was of great value to the
younger generation, and that the Relief
Society was at the head of all the other
associations. Explained some of the diffi-
culties surrounding the publication of the
“Exponent” unless it was liberally pat-
ronized. Gave some of her experiences in
early Relief Society work, and dwelt upon
the necessity of the Relief Society owning
property and storing grain. Said that it
was very necessary that the sisters pray for
Sister Zina Young as she had great re-
sponsibilities.
	President Hyde blessed the congregation
with a mother’s blessing, and urged the
young sisters to be diligent in the things of
the Gospel.
	President Peterson said he had been more
interested in the teachings of the sisters than
ever, hoped they would come again soon.
Said the sisters had built up the kingdom
as much as the brethren, and the wives of
the missionaries were performing as great a
work as the missionaries themselves. Felt
that he could talk for hours if time would
permit.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by President Peterson.
SOPHIA JENSEN, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

MARTHA PETERSON HOLM:
	Sister Martha Peterson Holm, daughter of
Peter and Mari Ane Christesen, was born March
21, 1849, in Hytter, Denmark. She emigrated to
Utah in 1873, and was married to Andrew Holm
at Salt Lake City Nov 11, 1873 and lived at Lake
Shore where she resided at the time of her death,
March 9, 1898. She was a teacher in the Relief
Society of Lake Shore, a faithful Latter-day Saint
and was loved and respected by all who knew her.
She leaves a kind husband and five children, four
daughters and one son to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
take from our midst one of our sisters, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the officers and members
of the Relief Society of Lake Shore do extend our


heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of sorrow, and t[-]at we ever cherish
her memory.
	RESOLVED. That a copy of these resolutions be
presented [-]o the bereaved family, one placed on
the records of th[-] Relief Society and one sent to
the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
PHILLIS BECKSTROM,
MARY A. JONES,
CHRISTENA HOLM,
Committee.

ESTHER ANN ROLFSON.

	It is with the deepest regret that we are called
upon to record the death of our beloved sister,
Esther Ann Rolfson, who died at her home in
American Fork. Feb. 15, 1898. Sister Rolfson was
born at Savannah, Andrews Co., Missouri, May
1, 1851, her parents were Joseph and Hannah
Pulley. She became the wife of Frank Rolfson by
whom she had four children, three of whom sur-
vive her, two sons and one daughter. Sister
Rolfson was a member of the Relief Society for
many years, and at our last election was chosen
one of the board of directors, and proved herself
worthy of the position. She was always on hand
and willing to do her share of whatever work was
assigned her. She was true and faithful to her
convictions and loyal to the cause she had es-
poused, instructing her children in the truth of
the everlasting Gospel; her family are indeed a
credit to her, for she was a devoted wife and
mother, and although suffering intensely from
that dread disease cancer, she never murmured
but always had a word of counsel and encourag-
ment for her children, and in her intense suffer-
ing had unbounded faith in the administration for
the sick, from which she always received a benefit.
	Her loss will be keen y felt by her beloved
daughter who was untiring in her devotion to her
mother during her long illness. We truly sympa-
thize with the family of Sister Rolfson in their
great loss and trust they will have that comfort
and assistance that can only be found by bowing
in submission to the will of our Heavenly Father.
ELLETHERIA D. ROBINSON,
ELLEN BARRATT,
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
Committee.


UTAH HiSTORICAL SOCIETY.

	THE following constitute the officers and
board of control of the Utah Historical
Society: Franklin D. Richards, president;
Isabella Cameron Brown, vice-president;
Jerrold R. Letcher, recording secretary;
James T. Hammond, corresponding secre-
tary; Lewis S. Hills, treasurer; Antoinette
B. Kinney, librarian, and Joseph Geoghe-
gan, Electa Bullock, C. C. Goodwin, R. C.
Lund, L. W. Shurtliff, H. W. Lawrence,
G. W. Thatcher, Joseph T. Kingsbury and
John T. Caine.
	The standing committees are:
	Membership—R. W. Young, John Henry
Smith, Emma J. McVicker, H. G. Whit-
ney, and Angus M. Cannon.
	Ways and Means—Henry W. Lawrence,
John E. Dooly, Heber J. Grant, Robert C.
Lund and G. W. Thatcher.
	Printing and Publishing—John T. Caine,
C. C. Goodwin, John Q. Cannon, Alfales
Young and B. F. Cummings Jr.
	Library and Museum—Nat M. Brigham,
Spencer Clawson, Emmeline B. Wells,
George Q. Coray and Chris Diehl.
	Grounds, Buildings and Property—Heber
M. Wells, Robert N. Baskin A. O. Smoot,
Elias A. Smith and Charles R. Savage.
	Lectures, Historical Papers and Address-
es—Joseph T. Kingsbury, Harry C. Hill,
Ellen B. Ferguson, Willard Done and C.
W. Penrose.
	Memorials—O. F. Whitney, Aquilla
Nebeker, Eurithe K. La Barthe, Joseph
Geoghegan and Alexander C. Bishop.
	Special Committee on Historical Jubilee
Relics, etc—John Q. Cannon, Heber M.
Wells, Antoinette B. Kinney, Spencer
Clawson, Edward F. Colborn, Ellen B.
Ferguson, and H. G. Whitney.


272
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CLARA BARTON ARRIVES.

	TAMPA Fla., April 12.—The steamship
Olivette, which arrived here from Havana
brought 250 refugees from Cuba, also Miss
Barton, president of the Red Cross Society
and her staff. Miss Barton said:
	“It is the duty of the Red Cross Society
to follow in the wake of the army rather
than to lead it, and wherever duty calls
there you will find us. In the present in-
stance we simply deemed discretion the
better part of valor. The original treaty of
Geneva provides only for relief in war. The
extensions of the provisions of the treaty
to include other disasters was a special con-
cession made to the American Red Cross
upon its accession to the treaty and known
as the American amendment.
	"The singular coincidence now presents
itself of both provisions of the treaty being
called into action in the same field. The
Red Cross has distributed the food sent by
the people of America to suffering recon-
centrados as long as such action was admis-
sible. Now that war is imminent and our
guns prepared to sweep the island it be-
comes the duty of the Red Cross to retire
from the threatened field and place itself in
position behind the guns and wait.”
	Since arriving here Miss Barton has re-
ceived from prominent men in New York
requests that the society lend its aid to alle-
viate the suffering on the part of the desti-
tute Cuban element of this city. Miss Bar-
ton will have a consultation with the May-
or of the city, which will probably result in
her securing speedier relief for the sufferers.


TWO of Tennyson’s sisters are living, the
youngest in her 81st year.

	THE March number of Jeness Miller's
Monthly pays a warm tribute to the work
of "Jennie June" Croly among the Womens’
Clubs. Mrs. Croly is at work upon a "His-
tory of the Woman’s Club Movement in
America" which is to be published under
the auspices of the General Federation.

	A DATE in mid-September, 1898, will
probably be the day upon which Queen
Wilhelmina of Holland will formally take
the oath of accession to the Dutch throne.
No one could have shown more tact in
managing affairs of State during her daugh-
ter’s minority than the Queen Regent, who
like her sister, the Duchess of Albany, is a
person of singularly unpretentious manners
and simple tastes. This is shown in her
daily habits and surroundings. Her Majes-
ty, for instance, although for more formal
communications she uses thick white writ-
ing paper with the crown and royal coat
of arms emblazoned in gold and scarlet and
blue, uses for everyday familiar letters,
paper merely stamped with her name
"Emma," and a crown. In dress also she
is inclined to simplicity, and she follows, in
preference to leading the fashion.


THE CLEOFAN.

	ON Tuesday, March 26, the Cleofan en-
joyed an Epitome on King Lear by Mrs.
Blanche P. Lee. The character of Cordelia
in comparison with Goneril and Regan by
Mrs. Anna S. Young and Mrs. Lee. Char-
acter of Edmund and Edgar by Mrs. May
P. Moyle. The club adjourned for one
week.
	CLARA T. FELT. Cor. Sec. pro tem.


A DREAM.

	A LO[-]G, long time ago when fairies and
brownies were flourishing there was in this
world a large meeting, and among them
was the fairy Opaline who decided to visit
the earth accompanied by her faithful
brownie, Amethyst. The aim of her trip
was to distribute among women a special
gift for each nationality. Amethyst bore
the casket containing the precious treasure.
On reaching the earth Amethyst issued the
call for a young woman of each nation to
appear before the fairy, and soon the throne
of Opaline was surrounded by a crowd of
women.
	The good fairy explained kindly that her
wish was to bestow upon each a token of
which she might be proud. "I cannot
give to all the same gift," said she, "but
you will appreciate them better, because if
all were uniform they would become mono-
tonous." A few words more and the speech
was ended and the distribution began.
	The first young woman to bow before
the throne of the good fairy was a Spanish
girl, and she received the gift of hair so
black and so long that without difficulty
she could wrap herself therein as in a mantle.
	The Italian came bowing and was given
eyes so sparkling and so ardent as to com-
pare with the eruption of Vesuvius by night.
	A Turkish beauty followed and upon her
was bestowed the roundness of the moon,
and a smoothness like the bird's feathers.
	Next came a Swedish lady and received a
complexion as fair as an Aurora Borealis.
	Then the German girl approached and the
kind fairy gave her teeth as perfect as her
own and gifted her with a sensible heart,
deeply disposed to love.
	To the Russian she gave a queenly bearing.
Afterward came the Persian. Opaline
put gaiety on her lips, wit and common
sense in her head and kindness in her heart.
	The casket being empty the fairy made
ready to fly again to the upper regions,
when a beautiful girl approached blushing
and taking her by her gossamer tunic said,
"Did you forget me, dear fairy, that you
gave me nothing?" The sweet, musical
voice charmed the fairy, who turned and
said kindly, "And who are you?" "I am
the American." "Oh, said Opaline, "you
were too near—I did not see you, and now
I have nothing left to give." But without
a moment's hesitation she ordered Amethyst
to recall those who had been gifted and
when they were assembled she said, "I am
guilty of a great forgetfulness but you can
help me to rectify my mistake. I have en-
tirely forgotten your American sister, and I
will be pleased if each of you will give to
her a portion of your gift. It will be a
small loss for you and will greatly compen-
sate her for the disappointment I have
caused." Well as all were very grateful to
the good fairy they could not refuse, and
with the exquisite grace which ordinarily
all happy people possess, they came one
after another to the American girl and gave,
one some of her splendid hair, another
some roses from her complexion, another
some of her gaiety and brightness; all were
generous, and in conclusion the American,
at first unseen, was by this act of partaking
better gifted than any of her comrades.
	And this is the reason why among all the
civilized nations the American woman
wears on her head the crown of beauty and
in her own country her name is written in
letters of gold in the annals of history.
EUGENIE CLEOPHAS.


Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the Establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WlLFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob.
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study.
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personalty or by
letter with
ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D
75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. <273>

