VOL. 26 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DEC. 15, & 31, 1897 No. 14


CONTENTS:
	Thanksgiving in the New England Hills—E.
B. W. Address—R. B. Pratt. A Gold[-]n Wed-
ding— M. A. Hyde. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina H. Bu 1,
Sec. Washi gton’s Last Will and Testament
Notes and News. An Amendment.
	EDITORIAL:—Chri tmas and the Children. Mus-
ings and Memories. A Welcome Visi or. Coloni-
al Tea Party. For the Colonial Tea Party at
Aunt Em’s. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The Holly—Maria Le Baron. Wo-
man’s Appeal—Bertha M. Wixon. Companions
R. H. Sto-dard.


THE HOLLY.
Imperishable green the holly leaves,
And bright a bloo[-] the berry red that weaves
Its brilliance throug[-] the tangled branches dense:
No bird can build within its spiked fence,
N[-]r sun in-penetrate its leafy deeps
Where the undying tree-bound spirit sleeps.
It stands within the churchyard w[h]ere the graves
Rise in their grassy ranks, like broken waves,
And sturd[-]er grows as man in dea h is laid
Pulseless beneath its bl[-]ck, unvar[-]ing shade.
T[-]e Summers call with song, and bee, and flower;
Its leaves shake off the touch of vernal shower;
The Autumn flings her radiance far and wide
Till ear[-]h is garbe[-] in beauty as a br[-]de—
Yet ever stands the holly d[-]rk, severe,
Like a grim warder o’er a fickle ye[-]r.
The Wi[-]ter com[-]s; go[-]e i[-] t[-]e lea[-]y shade,
That, ate, earth’s Ori n[-]t nt of splend[-]r made;
The vines, like serpents fiery-eyed, turn brown,
And blossoms th[-]ow their g[-]rlands withe[-]ed down;
Still sh[-]nes the ho ly with its hoa[-]y hedge,
An[-] r[-]dde berries flash along i s edge;
The snows new-fallen, doth it ligh ly toss
To gleam, like emerald, for the Christmas cross.
Now is its victory ! in the f[-]stive hal[-]
Its glit-ering leaves enwreat the [-]ictured wall;
Above the firep ace where the hickor[-] glows,
Its s[-]irit, framed, fo[-]gets the threa ened snows,
Upon the board where wine and wit are t[-]roned;
It, rustling, aughs a[-] ch[-]rchyar[-] wind th[-]t moaned,
And where it [-]angs on high, o’er maide[-]’s head.
It hears the Christmas vows of lovers said.
Strange typ[-] of life art [-]hou, O holly brave!
With str ng roots, coral-like round mouldering
grave,
Bearing the win[-]er’s storm, the summer’s sun,
While changing decades of man’s race are run;
Twin of grim Dea[-]h whose shadow mocks our
way,
And cho[-]en comrade of our Christmas day !
MARIA LE BARON.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING IN THE NEW
	ENGLAND HILLS.

IT was a dark, gray November day
near Thanksgiving time, and Jake the hired
man came in all in a flutter with the mail,
for the letters were anxiously looked for-
ward to in that out of the way suburb of
the town; there was a great open fire of
pine knots and Squire Wentworth and his
wife were enjoying the calm of the evening
twilight, as well as the blazing fire. The
curtains were not drawn bnt the day's

[Column 2]

work was over and the Squire reading his
newspaper, the very picture of content, his
wife busy with her needle; but when the
letters were brought in both father and
mother eagerly opened one after the other,
and as there were several in reply to in-
vitations to come home to Thanksgiving,
these were read first, and then all at once
looking up from her letters, Mrs. Went-
worth exclaimed, "After all Rosetta Stacy
says she's coming up here to Thanksgiving!
do you hear that father?" And the Squire
replied, "And so she's condescended to
come has she? well I declare, what a sur-
prise ! I must say her upstartishness beats
all I ever heard; what did you say mother
about her refusing last year when you
asked her? I remember she was pretty
impertinent."
"Well father, I told you she refused out
and out, and gave no reason except that she
hated the country in Winter, and it was
not fit for civilized people up here in the
woods anyway; that's just about what she
said only those might not be the exact
words."
"What did you ask her again for after
such a flat refusal, it's the same time o'year
and the weather is just the same in Novem-
ber any way, it's blustering cold most
times, gray and damp-like if it don't blow
like Sancho, why I'd have had too much
pride to ask her again; I'd like to know if
our girls arn't as good as she is any day, if
she has been to Smith College and got
away up in elocution and all that sort
o' thing; it beats me what the country's
coming to with such high falutin notions as
the young folks have nowadays, and our
own colleges even not good enough, they
must go abroad to finish."
"Well father I'll tell you why I sent
Rosetta another invitation as you seem to
resent it so, our boy, Fred is coming home
to Thanksgiving and he's over head and
ears in love with this stylish young woman,
you know how anxious you've been about
Fred's future, and he's all the boy we have
to keep up the family name, you've been
telling me that for the last six years ever
since he first went away to school, and he'll
never marry unless he can get Rosetta
Stacy. And so I determined to try once
more to have her come up here and see us,
you remember when she was a little girl
her mother would have her come for a
month or two once a year at least, to get
the fresh air and romp with the girls, and
'twas then Fred fell in love with her and
he's never cared about any girl since, and
he's seen plenty of them, as you know."
"Well now mother your explanation's all
very well, but the girls are all away now
and you haven't much help, that Carter
girl don't know how to wait on table, and
Fred's pretty particular himself, and you've
been cooking this whole week and there's
no chance of getting extra help at Thanks-
giving time, everybody wants their own at
home then if they're ever so poor, and if
Susan and Marian come home they'll be tir-
ed and everlastingly drumming on the piano
and then the others'll bring their babies,

[Column 3]

and by George, I don't want any citified,
stuckup young woman around; I'm mighty
sorry she's coming anyway, I wish she'd re-
fused again for my part."
"O don't say that father she'll soon be
here, and we've plenty of room so you can
have a good time with the babies and not
see much of her nor hear the piano either,
unless you want to, and now I think of it
the girls'll not play when Rosetta's here,
for she is a professional."
"How many professions has she got, she's
an elocutionist and a pianist, knows Greek
and Latin, we'll all stand in awe of her I
suppose, though her mother was my cousin
and born up here in the woods as she calls
it; and I'd like to have a little of Fred's
company myself. Let me see he's been
away most of the time now well on to six
years, and if he's going to settle in Boston
we wont see him very often, you and me
mother, we can't be going up and down to
Boston much its about time now we took
things easy."
Mrs. Wentworth loved her boy Fred
very much and she would willingly make
any sacrifice for him, but she did think
'twas too bad he was going to settle away
from them, she had always expected until
recently that he would stay near them but
he was very ambitious and there wasn't so
much chance forgetting on in the professions
in out of the way places, and as she sat in a
brown study thinking of that and of the old
times when the children were all at home,
and the Squire dropped asleep, and the
house was so still you might have heard a
pin drop but for the heavy breathing of the
sleeper, and Mrs. Wentworth took up
Fred's letter again and read it over and
the tears trickled down her face as she
thought of the days when they were all
around her and the noise and games and
merry laughter at even-time; and her own
happy motherhood, for she had been a fond
mother and her children had all grown up,
four were married now and had homes of
their own and little ones, and two were still
at school not far away and Fred, why he
was no longer a boy, his letter was like that
of a man of the world, and she realized
more than ever how utterly alone they were
after all the years that had passed.
	The maid came in to say tea was ready
and she brushed her tears away and woke
her husband, how many times it had been
so since the children were gone, but she
had not felt so depressed until of late. The
Squire seemed to have forgotten the near
approach of Thanksgiving and his wife was
glad to be left to her reveries, but ere the
meal was finished they were aroused by the
loud knocker, and a well known voice call-
ing "mother," and the buoyant young man
who had thrown off all restraint on reaching
his country home, made the empty house
resound with his hearty greetings.
"We didn't expect you so soon, not till
tomorrow anyway," said the Squire, "why
didn't you send a message, we never heard
the carriage wheels and the house so still,
how's that?"
"I came over on horseback from the


[Column 1]
station, my trunks are left there, I wanted
to see how things were at home before
Rosetta came up and be here to meet her,
we’re engaged now,” this last remark with
an exultant tone as though it was a re-
markable feat accomplished.
	“That’s it, is it Fred why I’ve just been
telling mother I wished she wasn’t coming.
We don’t know what to do up here with
such stylish people, we’re only old-
fashioned country folks you know, no velvet
carpets nor silk curtains nor cut glass and
fine silver, and we’re not prepared to enter-
tain fine people nowadays.”
	“Now father, what about your own ca-
reer down in Boston sitting in the legisla-
ture year after year?”
	“O ’twas different then, folks were plain-
er, and it wasn’t all style and fashion, and
your mother here was something of a belle,
as much at home there then as I was my-
self—she was a pretty fine dancer in those
days, knew the minuet and Roger de
Coverly, and wasn’t much of a wall flower
ever; but its all changed now and we’re
out of date and home is the best place for
us.”
	“I don’t dispute that fact, but there’ll
have to be some fixing up here now within
a day or two. Tomorrow there’ll be some
new carpets and furniture coming and we’ll
have to look up some help,” this with a
great air of consequence.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth looked at each
other, guessing what it all meant but with-
uot saying so, only “What do you mean
Fred just as we are to celebrate Thanks-
giving and all the folks coming home, turn-
ing the house upside down,” and as Fred
made no reply his father exclaimed, “Isn’t
the house we’ve lived in these forty years
and more, and where you and all the others
were born, good enough for her to come to?
Its all very strange and incomprehensible.”
	“That isn’t the question, I’m going to
be married, and besides Rosetta there will
be her father and mother and brother and
the minister and bridesmaids, and some
other college friends of mine.”
	This in one breath was overwhelming;
they had guessed there was to be a wedding
when the carpets and furniture were men-
tioned, but to think of a minister from Bos-
ton, that was rather more than they could
stand. What would folks think and where
were they to put all these fine people? And
poor Mrs. Wentworth puzzled her brain all
night long contriving where they would all
sleep and what to do for help in such an
emergency. There was plenty of linen, if
it wasn't fine, and blankets and quilts and
feather beds in abundance that was some
consolation she told the Squire, tho’ he did
not seem to answer, and finally she stopped
talking, but no sleep for her, it was too ex-
citing, and to think of the strange minister,
and would he bring his wife, and was he
orthodox, and a hundred other things that
puzzled her. She was glad when morning
came so she could be doing something for
she could not be still when so many things
must be changed.
	Before the family had finished breakfast
the wagons drove in from the station with
the household goods, and Jake had hunted
up some workmen and the Carter girl’s
mother came, and a colored women who
did the washing and all day long there was
noise enough, such as had never been heard
in that old house, never since they had re-
modelled it more than a quarter of a century
before. Fred jammed his fingers trying to
help, and the Squire lamed his arm and

[Column 2]
Mrs. Wentworth cried until her eyes were
very red and her head ached for want of
sleep, but neither the Squire nor his wife
had a word to say about the changes for
Fred was master of the situation evidently;
and though his mother was curious to know
about the minister she dreaded to ask, and
he had not even told them his name nor
how it was the marriage was to take place
up in the country so hurriedly, but towards
evening when the workmen were gone and
there seemed to be a lull in the noise and
bustle and Mrs. Wentworth was ready to
drop with fatigue, the last straw was added
by Fred informing them that the minister
was a Unitarian and so were all the Stacys,
and that was why he had decided to have
one from Boston, knowing there were only
orthadox ministers in Wendell. The
Squire was “awfully upset,” as he ex-
pressed it afterwards, and Mrs. Wentworth
cried until near bedtime “and to think of it,
after all the teachings her boy had that he
should consent to such a thing,” was her
comment to her husband who kept silent
on the subject.
	Late that night another greater surprise
came, it was near midnight and they sat
talking in the great oaken dining room
when a knock like thunder came at the
door, and even the old Squire brave as he
was started to his feet calling out in a
trembling voice, “who’s there.” Mrs.
Wentworth was shivering with fear, but
Fred had rushed thro’ the hall to the door
in a moment and ushered in the stranger,
a gruff voice and foreign accent and yet to
the Squire something familiar in the tones,
and Fred without ceremony announced
Uncle Edward Wentworth, all the way
from South Africa. The Squire would
have fallen had not Fred caught him and
carefully seated him; he couldn’t speak at
first and Mrs. Wentworth looked as if she
had seen a ghost. It was indeed as tho’
one had risen from the dead. The brother
had been gone for more than fifty years, he
had run away when a lad, and hearing
after some years of the death of his father,
his mother having died when he was very
young previous to his escapade, he had
roamed about in foreign parts seeking his
fortune and not finding it, and at last hav-
ing made a lucky hit and realized wealth,
all at once he had a desire to know bow it
had fared with his folks in America. Ar-
riving in Boston only a few days before he
looked over the newspaper and saw the
name of Fred Wentworth of Wendell, son
of Squire Wentworth, who had figured
conspicuously in politics in early days. It
was an announcement of young Went-
worth’s engagement to Miss Stacy, the only
daughter of a wealthy shipping merchant
whose wife (the girl’s mother) was a cousin
of Squire Wentworth. He pushed his in-
quiries further and hunted up the young
man, and was introduced to the Stacys, and
of course his cousin Adelaide was glad to
see him and Miss Stacy was romantic
enough to fancy the rich bachelor uncle her
mother’s cousin, and after that everything
went on swimmingly with the young folks,
and the uncle and nephew arranged to
keep the matter a secret and not give the
newspapers a chance to publish it until
they were safe out of Boston.
	Squire Wentworth and his brother sat up
all that night talking over old times, and
Fred whose secret was now exploded slept
soundly; even poor Mrs. Wentworth
thoroughly exhausted with the happenings
and confusion after the lonely quiet to

[Column 3]
which she had become accustomed of late,
rested better than usual. As a matter of
fact she had as she thought fixed comforta-
bly for every guest, for the house was large
and roomy, and she only wondered now
what was to be done with the new comer,
and she declared to herself as she was fall-
ing asleep that he didn’t look as if he ever
had slept in a bed, muffled up as he was in
furs, and so dreaming of diamonds and the
Boers of South Africa of which her brother
in law had been talking when she retired
for the night, she fell into a profound and
restful sleep.
	Morning came foggy and dismal but the
house was bright and cheery and every-
thing in “apple pie order” the Squire said.
The girls arrived fresh from school at
Greenfield, and their dainty ways in ar-
ranging the pictures, flowers etc.. were
quite refreshing. “No nonsense about our
girls,” their father remarked to mamma,
“I wouldn’t tolerate it in them, and
Greenfield is a staid, old town not like
Boston and seaside places.” But indeed
the girls were not so very young, and the
father who looked upon Marian as almost a
baby tho’ even she was over twenty, re-
marked to the mother “he was mighty glad
there were no young fellows dangling after
them.”
	The girls were as much surprised at the
sudden transition in the house as the old
folks and much more delighted, their uncle
was simply charming, in story telling es-
pecially; it was like a romance and Susan
who was inclined to be literary declared
she would write it up in a story and people
would think it wasn’t real at all.
	Towards evening the crowd began to
come and before the last train from Boston
all the married daughters had arrived and
were posted on the affairs of the family.
Uncle Edward explained some things and
told stories of his travels and played with
the little folks, and promised them stores of
goodies; and Fred took upon himself to tell
his sisters of the nuptials about to be sol-
emnized, and later ran down to the station
with the carriage sent to meet the bridal
party.
	The Carters and the help had set the
neighborhood gossiping, and those who had
usually been invited when there was any
great doings at Squire Wentworth’s were in
a flutter of excitement about an invitation to
the wedding, and altogether the whole affair
proved to be a “nine days’ wonder.” Even
the wedding cake was sent from Boston,
and all sorts of fruits and dainties the great
city afforded at that season.
	The guests were late for the drive was
long and the country roads rough, and the
ladies unaccustomed to jostling, the drivers
must be careful Fred had told them, and so
the coming was slow and tedious. Over
the Wentworth home there was a hush of
expectancy during the interval, and though
there was so much to talk about the only
one who seemed inclined to converse was
Uncle Edward; he had the easy, careless
air of of a man to whom no surprise brings
seriousness. At last the carriages driving
up the lane was a signal for all to be on
hand and the great piazza was full of peo-
ple as the guests alighted, and as the night
air was damp and cold, the hour late and
the travelers weary the greetings were ex-
ceedingly formal and perhaps a trifle dis-
tant, at any rate somewhat embarrassing.
	After a light supper, and a really deli
cious one, the guests were shown to thei
apartments and the minister who had n


[Column 1]
wife with him was young looking, and the
bridesmaids very pretty. The family sat
up late and discussed the morrow's pro-
gram. They must be married in the par-
lor at home; for the village meeting house
was not open to any but orthodox people,
and the ceremony was to be performed at
high noon, and they were to sit down to
dinner at three, and the evening was to be
a quiet one with their own family and
guests, and the following morning the
wedding party would depart. Uncle Ed-
ward would remain for a time but he in-
formed them that previous to leaving Bos-
ton it had been arranged that Fred and his
wife should go out to South Africa with
him.
	This was another cruel blow to the mother
and she heartily wished Uncle Edward
back with the Boers, and did not hesitate to
tell him so.
	"Wait till Fred comes back rich and
you'll change your mind Fanny, it will be
ever so much better than practising his
profession in Boston, besides he is really a
man of affairs and with his knowledge on
general subjects, he'll make his fortune out
there in a chartered company."
	There is no time to tell you of the wed-
ding finery, nor the dinner that followed,
which was decidedly an old fashioned and
substantial one though served somewhat
elaborately. The bride in white satin and
orange blossoms was a perfect picture of
loveliness though she did not unbend to
Fred's family, not even during the con-
gratulations, and her mother felt called up-
on to make all sorts of apologies for her
lack of cordiality and friendliness. Fred
could not see it, love is blind now as of old,
and his mother and sisters were too fond of
him to speak of it.
	Squire Wentworth remarked aside to his
wife, “She’ll get that silly pride taken out
of her when she gets away among the
Boers.” But as for herself she spoke of
ostriches and diamonds and the wealth they
would accumulate as though it were a fairy
tale, and so it seemed to her undoubtedly,
such is the hope and trustfulness of youth
and inexperience.
	The evening was dull, the mother was
sad with thoughts of the parting so soon to
come, and even the Squire was glad when it
was time for the guests to retire who were
to take the morning train.
	As usual in homes where the unusual
occurs the family, except the newly wedded
pair, sat long and late by the hearthstone
talking over the events of the day and dis-
cussing Fred’s future, what it was likely to
be with his haughty wife. “Its very
evident she holds her head high above us,”
said the Squire. "Never mind," put in
Mrs. Wentworth, “if she only truly loves
Fred we can forgive everything else in her.”
But her face quivered as she thought of the
parting on the morrow, and the long jour-
ney that lay before them. No sleep for
Mrs. Wentworth and the morning found
her pale and trembling.
	In a few hours after breakfast the party
made their adieux, the Squire and his brother
seeing them to the station. Perhaps the
disdain of the bride helped the sisters to
bear up better than if she had been gentle,
they felt so outraged, but Susan had made
an impression on the young minister al-
though she dare not acknowledge it even to
herself, as love in its true simplicity never
does and it gave her courage, however,
and her buoyancy helped her mother and
sisters to bear up more bravely; courage in

[Column 2]
those around us is uplifting always.
	Uncle Edward whose trunks had only
just come from the train began to display
his Eastern silks and trinkets and the girls
were interested directly, as what girls are
not with elegant and costly goods and bric-a
brac. There was some rich present for
every one, though he had not known how
many relatives he had when the goods were
purchased. And so thanks to the rich and
generous uncle the Thanksgiving ended
happily, even the babies were remembered
and there were great promises made for the
future. Mrs. Wentworth tried to be cheer-
ful but it was difficult, as it is for any
mother when the loved ones go out from
the home; but the girls were to remain at
home now their school days were practical-
ly over and they would not be quite so
lonely until they too would leave the old
home. Uncle Edward meantime divulged
another secret and that settled the query in
all their minds why Rosetta Stacy left her
grand home in Boston and came up there
to be married; it was simply because Uncle
Edward would not consent to a fashionable
Boston wedding.
	When Thanksgiving came around again
a year after, Susan and the young minister
from Boston were united in marriage in the
same old parlor, Squire Wentworth himself
officiating in the ceremony.
	Only the Squire’s baby, as he called
Marian, was left at the old homestead now
to keep the old folks company and she had
fallen in love with one of Fred’s college
friends, who made frequent visits to
Wendell and seemingly with great expecta-
tions.
	And so the Thanksgiving those country
people expected to have enjoyed in quiet
country fashion, feasting on the usual
wholesome viands without much ceremony
but with genuine hospitality and great
thankfulness to Him who had bestowed
such a bounteous measure of happiness
and plenty, had found all their plans frus-
trated and the unexpected and unforeseen
had come to pass; and so we often find it in
this life on holidays and other days.
	Rosetta’s letters to her mother from Cape
Colony were not filled with diamonds nor
even ostrich feathers and Fred has not yet
notified the Squire of an heir to perpetuate
the name of Wentworth.
	[-]ew England Thanksgivings are very
dignified affairs, every one is expected to
do his best to lay aside all ill feeling. all
nonsense even until after the dinner is
served, which is really a state occasion.
No frivolity is tolerated in the old families,
church in the morning, and always extra
musical exercises and special thanksgiving
expressed in the prayers. The homes, and
more especially the dining rooms, are pro-
fusely decorated with evergreens and red
winter berries which make a most charming
background, and are a sort of gladness to
the eye and the heart at this sombre season
of the year.
	There are various traditions extant in re-
gard to Thanksgiving, and it is difficult to
decide which of these is likely to be true,
but that matters little, it has become an es-
tablished and honored custom and should
be scrupulously observed by all in being
truly thankful to our Father in heaven for
all His mercies to His children and the
manifestations of His goodness, and in this
simple way teach lessons of veneration and
gratitude to the Giver of all good gifts.
E. B. W.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S APPEAL.

O NEVER yet has freedom called in vain
On woman’s hand or woman’s brain,
Through shadowy stretch of fleeting years,
See her undaunted by her fears,
Set forth from kindred and her native strand,
To dwell thence forth in foreign land;
Then truth was loosed from angry bigots thrall,
Woman had answered Freedom’s call.

To seventeen hundred and seventy-six:
Now turn the page and read the tricks
Of guile and greed and royal lust of gold
That wrenched the States from British hold,
Then in that contest woman bore a part,
Sent forth her sons with cheerful heart
To fight for liberty, perchance to fall,
And thus she answered Freedom’s call.

The Nineteenth Century on roll of fame
Has oft inscribed a woman's name;
She had trod the field, the hospital, the tent,
Ever on kind mission bent,
She listened to the soldier’s parting breath
And eased his painful way to death;
With charity and helpful hand to all,
She bravely answered Freedom’s call.

When school and college opened wide their doors
Eager she drank from wisdom’s stores.
To liberty with outstretched hands she turns,
And begs the right she fairly earns,
That legislators break those chains disgracing
Ranking her with class degrading.
O brothers, let your deed our hope forestall;
’Tis yours to answer Freedom’s call.

BERTHA M. WIXON.
—Woman’s Tribune.


COMPANIONS.

WE have companions, comrade mine;
	Jolly good fellows tried and true,
Are filling their cups with Rhenish wine,
	And pledging each other as I do you.
Never a man in all the land
	But has, in his hour of need, a friend,
Who stretches to him a helping hand
	And stands by him to the bitter end.
If not before, there is comfort then,
In the strong companionship of men.

But better than that, old friend of mine.
	Is the love of woman, the life of life,
Whether in maiden’s eyes it shine,
	Or melts in the tender kiss of a wife;
A heart contented to feel, not know.
	That finds in the other its sole delight;
White hands that are loth to let us go,
	The tenderness that is more than might!
On earth below, in heaven above,
Is there anything better than woman’s love?

I do not say so, companion mine,
	For what, without it, would I be here?
It lightens my tronbles, like this good wine,
	And, if I must weep, sheds tear for tear!
But books, old friends that are always new,
	Of all good things that we know are best;
They never forsake us, as others do,
	And never disturb our inward rest.
Here is truth in a world of lies,
And all that in man is great and wise!

Better than men and women, friend,
	That are dust, though dear in our joy and pain,
Are the books their cunning hands have penned,
	For they depart, but the books remain;
Through these they speak to us what was best
	In the loving heart and the noble mind:
All their royal souls po[-]sessed
	Belongs forever to all mankind!
When others fail him, the wise man looks
To the sure companionship of books.
R. H. STODDARD.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, & 31 1897.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS AND THE CHILDREN.

	CHILDRENS’ day we often hear on cer-
tain juvenile occasions, and somehow it has
come to be sort of proverbial to call Christ-
mas the childrens’ day and a very pretty
idea it is and appropriate too when it is ob-
served as the day on which the infant Jesus
was born in Bethlehem of Judea. Most of
the children of the present day are familiar
with the Madonna, some of those cheap
ones are very striking in beauty and are
gems in their way; it is good to have the
little ones comprehend as nearly as possible
the simple story of the babe in the manger
and his beautiful mother, and the story of
the shepherds watching their flocks by
night, and the wise men who saw the star in
the East and came to worship the new born
babe and brought precious gifts to him, be-
cause he was the Savior. No sweeter story
was ever told and it never grows old how
ever often it is repeated, and one never
tires of hearing it who has the spirit of the
Gospel.
	Christ loved little children and he told
his disciples, “Except ye become as these
little ones ye shall in no wise enter the
kingdom of heaven.” The very simplicity
of the language in which our Savior taught
the people clothes it with a significant
beauty and makes it all the more touching
to the human heart. All his sayings are
like precious gems cut and polished for the
setting and fitted in the places as though
carved for the special service. And there-
fore on this day set apart to celebrate his
birth, all our thoughts should be pure like
unto him and all our deeds good, and for
the good of those to whom we minister and
all our words should be kind and gentle and
loving.
	It is good to be happy and to make others
happy who are round about us, we should
try to do some little thing for others even
if we cannot do much and do it for a lov-
ing service, that we may walk in his foot-
steps and follow his perfect example of love
and blessedness.
	In doing these things children will learn
to love the Savior, and he will seem near
to them if they are always seeking to please
him and keep the “Golden Rule” he has
given to all of us, “Do to others as you
would they should do to you.” these
were the Savior’s words and this is the
teaching little children should receive, and
if they do these things happiness will come
even though every wish of their hearts has
not been gratified.
	Children of the present day have much

[Column 2]
more done for them than formerly and the
present age of the world seems one in
which children are more considered than
they ever were before, and the tendency
may be to make them selfish and exacting
unless great wisdom is used by parents and
teachers in their training. It is good to
have love but not too much indulgence, not
even on holidays.
	The children should be made as happy as
possible with nice and comfortable gifts
from those who love them, but meantime
remember the Lord gives us all things and
it is to him we must be grateful for all
blessings.
	When the Saints who settled these val-
leys came here they asked the Lord in
humility and in faith to bless this land and
make it fruitful, to prosper them and multi-
ply their blessings temporally and spiritual-
ly. The Lord heard and answered their
prayers, and the land overflows with plenty
and we and our children must not forget
that the Lord has given us these great
blessings.
	In the early days our children who are
now men and women with children of their
own, did not have the good things that are
so plentiful now, and the mothers and fath-
ers gave them any little, simple gifts at
such times and were very glad if they had
warm clothes and plain food to give the lit-
tle ones, and the children were as content
with rag dolls and molasses candy and 
doughnuts and pop-corn as they are now
with the abundance of sweetmeats and wax
dolls and ornaments of all sorts. Then we
used to tell the children stories for there
were few books to give them, now they 
have story books in abundance and papers 
for children full of nice little things fun-
ny and curious to please and delight them.
What good men and women they ought to
be when they grow up with all these condi-
tions and opportunities.
	On the blessed Christmas day let us hope
there will not be a hungry child or an un-
happy one in all Utah, but every one be
provided with plenty to eat so they may be
free from anxiety on that one day in all the
year, and if every one who has plenty and
to spare will give to one poor family, then
to be sure there will be no want in all the
land and every heart will be made glad.


MUSINGS AND MEMORIES.

	MRS. E. B. WELLS book of poems so
long promised has been issued and is now
ready for distribution to those who have
subscribed, and is also for sale at the office
of the “Woman's Exponent,” Templeton
Block, opposite the Deseret News Building
on South Temple.
	The book contains over three hundred
pages and a steel engraving of the author.
Musings and Memories is handsomely
bound and the Sego Lily on the outside
gives an artistic finish to its appearance. It
will make an appropriate Christmas or New
Year’s gift. The prices are, for leather
bindings $2.00, cloth in lilac or green,
white and gilt $1.50, cloth in one color
$1.25. All have the steel engraving and
the sego lily. As there is only a limited
number in the edition those who wish them
should purchase immediately.


MISS JANE ADDAMS, of Hull House, ad-
dressed the Chicago Political Equality
League on Nov. 6.


A WELCOME VISITOR.

	MRS. MARGARET F. STEEL, president of 
the Relief Society of the 1st Ward in Salt 
Lake City, recently received a visit from 
her sister from whom she had been separat- 
ed for more than forty years. Mrs. Wal-
worth, Mrs. Steel’s sister, resides at pre-
sent in Andover, Mass., and is a member
of the Congregational church at that place.
Formerly she lived at Lawrence where her
husband was engaged in manufacturing
dress goods. It was at Lawrence, Mass.,
that the sisters parted when Mrs. Steel
came to Utah. Mrs. Walworth arrived
November 5, and the following Sunday at-
tended the fast meeting in the 1st Ward, and
spoke a few moments of her pleasure in
being in their midst. Afterwards she spoke
in the Relief Society meeting in that ward
and said she was proud of her sister presid-
ing over such a Society, organized for works
of charity.
	Mrs. Walworth in visiting places of in-
terest visited the Hall of Relics in which
she found great pleasure, and in fact she
enjoyed all she saw and heard while here,
and thinks she may return here if she can
make satisfactory disposal of her property
in the East. John Farquahar, brother of
Mrs. Steel, is a prominent citizen in Glas-
gow, Scotland, having been City Council-
man for many years and now holds the
office of Bailif for life appointed by the
queen.
	Brother and Sister Alexander Steel are
old residents of Salt Lake City and highly
respected, and although they have no fam-
ily except themselves they are happy in
each other’s society and as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ with which they be-
came identified years ago in their native
land, which they left to gather with the
Saints in Zion.


A MOVEMENT is now on foot in St. Louis
Mo., to secure a medal of honor from Con-
gress for Mrs. Delina Roberts, of 4267
Chouteau Avenue, for heroic action during
the Civil War, when she was only sixteen
years old. President McKinley has laid
the matter before the War Department, and
it is expected that it will be acted upon
soon after Congress assembles.


COLONIAL TEA PARTY.

	ON Thursday, December 16, 1897, the
anniversary of the Boston Tea Party, in
1773, Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had issued in-
vitations to thirty ladies, gave a Colonial
Tea at her residence in East Waterloo to
celebrate the occasion. The guests were
all New England women or descendants of
New Englanders. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who has recently returned from
her visit to Canada, was present and she is
a direct descendant of Samuel Huntington,
one of the signers of the Declaration of In-
dependence—Mrs. Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, who on the maternal side is descend-
ed from the famous Comstock family of
New England, and there were others
present who can claim the best of Puritan
blood, one whose ancestor came in the cele-
brated Mayflower, others whose forefathers
were governors and members of Continent-
al Congresses before the Revolution.
	The costumes were colonial or nearly
so, ringlets and high combs were worn and


quaint old jewelry, reticules, shawls and
laces; and as one lady humorously remark-
ed, “old-fashioned faces.”
	The program was quite original in style
and commenced with the company joining
in singing “America.” Mrs. Annie W.
Cannon read the poem entitled “A Colonial
Tea,” which begins:

	“There was an old lady lived over the sea,  
		And she was an island queen,
	Her daughter lived off in a new country,
		With an ocean of water between.”

	The burden of this song is the three pen-
ny tax on tea and ending with telling the
queen she could have her tea when it was
steeped enough but not the tax. Mrs.
Isabel Buchholz read “The Boston Tea
Party,” a very pretty story in verse.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave quite a dissertation
on the whole affair, beginning with the
stamp act and going through the entire his-
tory of the treachery of Gen. Hutchinson
and other traitors, the meeting in Faneuil
Hall and Old South Church, the eloquent
speeches by Josiah Quincy and others, to the
time when the three ship loads of tea were
poured into the sea.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp spoke of her visit to
Boston and Plymouth in 1895, and de-
scribed Plymouth Rock and so forth, the
hostess offering some explanations on the
subject and giving her idea of these historic
places and mementoes.
	Miss Pearl Russell sang “I cannot sing
the old songs,” etc., very sweetly indeed.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze read some verses she
had composed for the occasion that were
very appropriate
	Little Louise B. Cannon sang “The
Good old Days of Yore,” with gestures etc.,
and little Margaret Cannon recited “That’s
the Way of the World You Know.” Other 
ladies present gave expression to patriotic
sentiments or told anecdotes, and the time
passed merrily. Refreshments were strictly
in New England style, Boston brown-bread
and butter, plain cake and fruit, and as it
was treason to drink tea, all guests were
served with hot water unless they preferred
cold.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FOR THE COLONIAL TEA PARTY AT
AUNT EM’S.

THURSDAY EVENING DEC. l6, 1897.
THE people of Boston once set an example,
	Which people of U[-]ah might follow, I think;
If the word and the coun[-]el of God are not ample,
	To teach them exactly the things they should
		drink.

If Boston went out with her sissors and axes,
	Rippe bags, split up boxes, and spilt all the
		tea;
And all that because of exorbitant taxes,
	A hint is there hidden, if Utah could see.

If the drinks of the Boston girl afterwards savored
	Of garden sage, catnip and rasberry leaves,
And yet with prosperity great she was favored,
	The Utah girl here a fine lesson receives.

Receives if she will—and I’d Iike her to take it—
	And take no more tea, as a pointer to wealth;
But remem[-]er God’s promise, (He never wil
	break it,)
Great trea[-]ures of wisdom, long life and good
	health. 
				L L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE sudden and almost tragic death of
the French author and critic Alphonse
Daudet, on Thursday, December 16, 1897,
while at dinner with his family in the
midst of domestic enjoyment must bring to
mind the saying “In the midst of life we
are in death.” Daudet is said to have
been the finest critic of the present day.
	THE burning of Dover castle on Decem-
ber 14, must be a great loss of many valu-
able works of art of historic value. It is
one of the most notable places in England,
containing such rare articles as cannot
again be replaced. As the fire was extin-
guished before night perhaps many of the
most valuable articles of other periods and
antique date may have been preserved.
	BY all means let the little people see the
windows with toys and such like curiosities
at Christmas time. There is no occasion
more inspiring to good deeds and tender
thoughts for the children than when pre-
parations are going forward towards this
world-wide festive as well as sacred cele-
bration. Let the children be happy on this
special day and prompt them to deeds of
love, charity and forgiveness. All that is
best in the child shows itself under such
cheerful conditions. It is hard work to be
ill-tempered at Christmas because the sur-
roundings are usually pleasant.
	THE life and labors of Sister Aurelia S.
Rogers is now in the hands of the publish-
ers and will be ready before very long.
Sister Rogers has been assisted in her work
by Sister L. L. Greene Richards who has
given the matter and its arrangement care-
ful oversight, and the book will be useful to
the children of Zion as well as interesting
to older readers. It will contain pictures of
Elder Orson Spencer, one of the ablest min-
isters of the Gospel in former days, and of
the author, Aurelia Spencer Rogers and
Ellen Curtis Spencer Clawson, her elder
sister.
	MRS. AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON has
written a poem entitled “The Exodus and
Jubilee,” which it is hoped will be printed
in some form perhaps in pamphlet style to
be circulated among the people. It is a
complete history in brief and in verse, of
the pilgrimage and labor of the Saints in
settling the desert places and establishing
a commonwealth. We shall be very glad
to see it in some suitable form such as the
merit of the work deserves. Mrs. Croche-
ron has written many poems, stories and
other articles, valuable contributions to our
home literature, but this work seems to us
(perhaps because of the subject) her very
best.
	THE death of Mrs. Nancy Alison Mc-
Kinley during the present month and so
near the holiday season December 12, will
have a depressing effect upon the residents
of the White House. From all one can
learn from newspaper reports the President
was fondly attached to his mother and had
ever been a dutiful and devoted son. The
floral offerings given prove she was beloved
by many, and the attention of the President
coming and going as he did, is proof of the
strength of his affection. Mrs. McKinley
had lived to a ripe old age and has gone to
her rest covered with honors. She was
born April 27, 1809, and died December 12,
1897, at Canton, Ohio. At her funera-

[Column 2]
many testimonials were given of the purity
and uprightness of her life and character.
	THE State Kindergarten association held
its annual meeting in the City and County
Building on Saturday, December 18, Mrs.
Augusta W. Grant in the chair. After the
transaction of routine business, officers for
the ensuing year were elected, which re-
sulted as follows: Prof W. T. Stewart,
president. Mrs. Annie Ballantyne of Og-
den, and Mrs. Annie Craig of Provo, vice-
presidents; Carrie S. Thomas, secretary;
Mary E. Larson, corresponding secretary;
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker, treasurer, and a
board of directors. Prof. Stewart took the
chair and spoke earnestly for the associa-
tion and urged all to work for its advance-
ment and the spread of this educational
dea which lay at the foundation of the best
education.
	SOME of the Christmas displays in the
shop windows are vety artistic this year,
and scarcity of money does not seem to pre-
vent shopping so far as one looking on can
observe, so that the little people will be well
supplied with all kinds of gifts and dainties
when Santa Claus arrives, and judging
from the weather he will come on runners
this year with bells and all the parapher-
nalia of winter costume. The Z. C. M. I
windows are as gay or gayer than ever be-
fore; ribbons and laces show well and
wherever there is color it gives tone to the
entire stock of articles. R. K. Thomas al-
ways makes everything count in arranging
his goods, and although it may be said
quality is everything, yet if the article is
ever so fine and it is not displayed to ad-
vantage, it may remain without a purchaser
while the more common articles are sold
off. Goods must be seen and books too as
well. People are often persuaded into buy-
ing by seeing books handsomely arranged
in windows or in view of the customer.
	THE illustrated lecture in the Assembly
Hall given by Dr. J. E. Talmage upon
Rome on the evening of December 3, was a
delightful pastime and an instructive enter-
tainment. To hear so much that is inter-
esting in one lecture is quite out of the or-
dinary, but Dr. Talmage has the happy
faculty of making every word count, and
one goes from the lecture hall of such a
speaker enriched in thought and ideas as
well as information. The views are very
fine and really fascinating, one may gaze
upon them and imagine being in the fa-
mous city itself. Dr. Talmage showed his
kindness of heart and his interest in child
life in generously giving this lecture free
for the benefit of the Kindergarten, and the
ladies who are working so industriously
and persistently to establish this system of
education in Utah feel very grateful to the
Doctor for the service rendered, both at
this time and heretofore in behalf of this
work. In doing this work for the public
those engaged therein are working for the
betterment of humanity.
	THE U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing on the evening of Nov. 30, at the
residence of Mrs. Annie M. Bradley (editor
of the Review) by her invitation. The
parlors were prettily decorated for the oc-
casion Dr. Romania B. Pratt, the newly
elected president, presided, as the secretary
was not present Dr. Ellis R. Shipp was
chosen secretary pro tem. Original senti-
ments on Thanksgiving were given by the
members. Mrs. Martha B. Jennings,


president of the State Federation was pres-
ent and many other invited guests. Dr. Pratt
read her valuable address in a most pleas-
ing manner which we give in full in this
issue of the paper. Mrs. Marineau recited
beautifully a Thanksgiving poem. Mrs.
Edith Rossiter also gave a recitation, and
Mrs. E. B. Wells read a Thanksgiving story
—also to be found in these columns.
	After the program dainty refreshments
were served to all, including pumpkin pie
and most delicious coffee. General conver-
sation was indulged in and the evening
passed in a delightful social visit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ADDRDSS.

[By the President of the U. W. P. C.,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt]
	I APPEAR before you tonight with a deep
sense of appreciation of the courtesy of the
club in electing me as president for the en-
suing year.
	In a strict sense the name of Press Club
in our case is a misnomer, as so few of us
are regular or special correspondents or
contributors to newspapers or periodicals,
and only three of our number are bona-fide
editors. But as I understand the object of
the Utah Woman’s Press Club, it is not
only to create a current into which may
flow the ripe thoughts of those well skilled
in journalism, but to encourage, to draw
out, to open up the vista of mind of the less
experienced of the spirits, who may sit
dreaming good thoughts but are not self-
confident enough to pen them for others to
peruse and perhaps to profit by.
	Our club was organized six years ago by
that staunch friend of women Mrs. E. B.
Wells, editor of the “Woman’s Exponent.”
She is ever seeking to arouse the best efforts
of heart and brain in all around her and
labors incessantly for the advancement of
women at home and abroad. She was
president during the first two years and
another year following Dr. Shipp’s two
terms of successful work. Mrs. Ruth M.
Fox has most satisfactorily and pleasantly
conducted the club through the past year.
	The short period of our club life has been
productive of much research into various
topics beside writing up the most interest-
ing epochs of the times.
	The members have written many original
stories, sketches and poems of high literary
merit. In our poets corner we have heard
sweet thoughts flowing in sweet rythmic
music from the pens of Mrs. E. B. Wells
in “Autumnal Musings,” Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze in “Faded Faces,” Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp in “The Woman Preacher,” Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder in “Queen Victoria,” Dr.
Orielle Curtis in “Friends of the Press
Club,” Mrs. Ruth M. Fox in “Utah,” Miss
Josephine Spencer in “In the Green Street.”
and Mrs. Genevieve Lucile Brown in “The
Ruling Passion.”
	In the dreamy realms of fiction have
appeared Mrs. Wells, Mrs. Greenhalgh, Miss
Ada Patterson and others.
	In the art world we have been highly in-
terested by Miss S L. Monroe with a his-
tory of ceramics accompanied by an exhibi-
tion of exquisite specimens of different
national productions, Socially we have
been most daintily entertained at the home
of Mrs. I. Cameron Brown, wife of our
Senator to Congress, at Mrs. Dickinson’s
valentine party, at Dr. Shipp’s, at Mrs.
Fox’s and at Mrs. Miller’s.

[Column 2]
	As a club we have had the pleasure of re-
ceiving the Countess Wachmeister, the
National Press Association, Miss Beecher
and others of note.
	Personal co-operation is the keynote of
success in club work, and in this particu-
lar I believe all the members can be justly
complimented for their prompt response to
program appointments.
	Occasionally to vary the routine club ex-
ercises we have had an evening in character
which aroused an interest and mirth and
taxed the memories of years of reading in
order to guess the authors.
	A most excellent rule in our club is the
rotation in office every one or two years. It
is the best means of infusing new life and
vigor into the work as well as lifting each
member into the realm of responsibility
and preventing the apathy which is too apt
to follow depending on leadership in others.
Few people are natural leaders, but many
are capable of improvement in presiding
with generous helpfulness from their asso-
ciates, and thus in time the mental status of
all the members is raised, increasing the dig-
nity and power of the club as a whole.
	The finances of a club form a pedestal
upon which rests its independence and self-
respect. Cash acts as oil to the wheels of
progress, and it is as important to the life of
the club that each member be prompt with
her dues, as to be active with her brain to
secure success in literary work.
	I was much impressed while reading
President Henrotin’s address to the General
Federation of Clubs with her recommenda-
tion to each club to hold a meeting to con-
sider the subject of international and nation-
al arbitration and industrial conciliation,
and the important part which women are
taking in educating, through peace socie-
ties, public opinion in favor of universal
disarmament. The futility of woman
grappling with such a stupendous project
at first thought seems simply absurd. But
has she not already taken by the horns
quite as prodigious a monster, the Liquor
King?
	A moments reflection upon the vast num-
ber of men composing the standing armies
of the different nations, maintained to steady
the toppling crowns on too often brainless
heads, and to aid in grasping territory and
holding power, makes the thought of dis-
armament seem wholly untenable.
	Such a suggestion, however, shows that
woman is growing in self-reliance and con-
fidence in herself, that she can accomplish
anything great or small, that she believes it
to be her duty to undertake. As a matter of
fact each man in those great hosts of arm-
es is some woman’s son, husband, father,
brother or sweetheart: So that the army of
women is as large as the army of men, and
if a solidarity of the hosts of women could
be marshalled into peace societies, public
opinion in favor of disarmament might fin-
ally be accomplished.
	As the president was advised, a meeting
could be given to the discussion of this sub-
ject and if it can be encompassed, as she
says “it will be the crown of glory of wo-
man’s work for humanity.” But as chari-
ty begins at home so should be the general
work of improvement.
	Some woman has said that “most people
do not know half the resources of their
own city and it is the golden opportunity of
the club to point them out.” In Salt Lake
City it looks as if the clubs will not only
have to point out the resources of the city,

[Column 3]
but to raise the cash by dint of industrious,
individual and collective work to establish
them. To begin with it will take the unit-
ed strength of the clubs to raise the means
whereby our public library may be sustain-
ed and very much enlarged, and also to in-
augurate traveling libraries for the benefit
of surrounding towns and villages.
	When we have accomplished these and
solved the servant girl question by opening
cooking schools to educate her and her
mistress too, and also learned to be skilled in
general household economies, then verily
the club women of Utah will be prepared to
become the vanguard in the grand army for
the world’s pacification and will be hailed
as angels with balm of Gilead in their
wings.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	ON Thanksgiving a golden wedding
anniversary was celebrated at Nephi in
honor of the marriage of Charles Price and
Ella Johnson at Council Bluffs in the year
1847, the bridegroom then eighteen, the
bride scarcely fourteen years of age. They
have been blessed with a large family, fif-
teen in number, eleven of whom survive.
	The family prepared a sumptuous feast for
the occasion. Five sons with their wives
were present and five daughters with their
husbands, one daughter was absent on ac-
count of sickness. Thirty-five grandchil.
dren were present, two were absent, and
thirteen great grandchildren, besides many
guests who honored them with their
presence.
	The tables were set in an upper room
where over a hundred were seated to par-
take of a bounteous repast. I may here
state that the wedding cake was decorated
with gold pieces amounting to $40.00.
Afterwards came music, speeches and reci-
tations, concluding with a dance which
was greatly appreciated. It was pleasant
to see the fathers dance with their little
daughters. All were made happy enjoy-
ing perfect freedom which will be to them a
pleasant memory.
						M. A. HYDE. 
	Nephi, NOV. 27, 1897.


R. S. REPORTS.
 
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the thirty-ninth semi-annual
conference of the Bear Lake Stake held in
Paris 1st Ward meeting house, Friday Nov.
26, 1897, at 10 a. m., President Julia
Lindsay presiding. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” Prayer by President James C.
Hart. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Roll called, Stake officers present
six; officers of the various branches of the
Society ten.
 	President Lindsay thought the bad condi-
tion of the roads prevented many from at-
tending conference and said we should be
willing to make sacrifices to do our duty.
Those who do not put up with inconveni-
ences need not expect the reward that
awaits those who are willing to meet their
obligations. She was pleased to see some
of the brethren with us in conference.
	The verbal reports were as follows: Paris
1st Ward, Pres. Stucki; Paris 2nd Ward,
Pres. Ashley; Lanark, Pres. Parker;
Bloomington, Pres. Patterson; a written re-
port from St. Charles was read by Stake


[Column 1]
Counselor L. M. Hart; Laketown, Pres-
Hodges; Montpelier, Pres. Hoganson;
Ovid, Pres. Carlson.
	Stake Counselor Elizabeth Collings ex-
pressed her gratitude for the privilege of
being at conference and felt thankful for a
standing in the kingdom of God. She had
often wondered why one so weak as she
had been called to the position she had oc-
 cupied so long. Desired to do her duty, be
humble and submissive, emphasized the
necessity of doing the work for our dead.
	Stake Counselor L. M. Hart felt thank-
ful for the hope she had of an exaltation
in the kingdom of God. She had been in-
terested in listening to the reports and
hoped the presidents who were absent had a
reasonable excuse. Said if we would leave
some unnecessary work undone and devote
more time to the improvement of the mind
it would be to our advantage. We should
use every moment we could for the study
of the principles of the Gospel; she knew
that if she lived up to these principles she
could go before her Father in heaven and
ask for blessings, for her prayers had been
answered many times. We want our mem-
bers to be pure and holy, not only in deed
but in thought, for the spirit of God cannot
dwell in unholy tabernacles. Admonished
all to be alive to their duties today for life
is uncertain. Invoked the blessings of
heaven upon all.
	Singing “Come let us anew our journey
pursue.” Benediction by Elder Bagley.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Meeting called
 to order by President Lindsay. After the
usual opening exercises President Lindsay
expressed the pleasure she felt in seeing a
larger attendance this afternoon, had noticed
in listening to some of the reports that the
average attendance was not half. Would
be thankful if some plan could be suggested
that would create more interest among the
sisters with regard to attending their meet-
ings. The counsel at the conference in
Salt Lake City which she had recently at-
tended was that if we had grain in good
condition we should keep it, also that we
 establish some plan that those who need
help may have something to do in return
for that which they receive, we should see
that no one suffers. Asked the Lord to
bless us all.
	Sister Mary Bagley said she always felt
blest in attending these meetings. Bore
testimony that the Relief Society had been
a great blessing to her, it had helped her to
be a better wife and mother and teach her
children truths that she could not have
taught them if she had not been connected
with this noble organization. There are
trials that we are not able to surmount
without the assistance of our Heavenly
Father and the kind words of our brothers
 and sisters. Desired to do her duty through
all circumstances.
	Sister Amelia Hoge bore a faithful testi-
mony to the divinity of the work in which
we are engaged, felt her weakness when at-
 tempting to address the sisters but was de-
sirous of performing her duties to the best
of her ability.
	Sister N. E. Pugmire felt very pleased to
be at the conference. Exhorted mothers to
be very careful of the example they set be-
fore their children, they sometimes unknow-
ingly sow seeds of unbelief in the hearts of
their children. She felt blest in meeting
with the sisters of the Relief Society, and
said how much we should miss Sister Lind-
say and others who have labored among us

[Column 2]
so long if we were deprived of them, feared
we did not appreciate them as we should.
Spoke of the necessity of each one building
on her own foundation, we shall be re-
warded for that which we do ourselves and
not for that which our fathers and mothers
do. Let us open up our hearts and not be
afraid to offer kind and encouraging words
to one another.
	President William Budge said that in a
conference of this kind our minds were
drawn out towards God and His work, and
for a time we forget those things of less im-
portance. Said the sisters should economize
their time that they may attend their meet-
ings and thereby receive a blessing. Spoke
at some length upon influence and related
circumstances showing the necessity of pos-
sessing the right spirit, that our influence
may be felt for good.
	Minutes were read and approved. Sing-
ing “O say what is truth.” Benediction by
President William L. Rich.
				N. H. ALLRED, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	WE are called upon to record the death of our
beloved counselor, Sister Mary Dodds, who de-
parted this life Oct 27, 1897.
	Deceased was born in England in 1831, and
joined the Church in early days; emigrated to
Utah in 1859, coming with the last handcart m-
pany. She lived in Salt Lake City for a short
time, then moved to Goshen where she resided
up to the time of her demise. She leaves a hus-
band, four children and an adopt[-]d daughter to
mourn her loss, beside other relatives and friends.
   When our Relief Society was first organized
she was chosen as one of the teachers, and served
in that capacity until she was chosen second
counselor, which office she faithfully filled until
her death.
	She has been a great help to the presidents of
the Y. L. M. I. A., having the gift of speech she
was always able to give good and timely instruc-
tion and seemed to be inspired at all times, and
she was listened to with much attention by the
young ladies. Of late her health did not permit
her to attend the association.
	She was a very zealous worker in the Sunday
school for many years past and was loved by all
her pupils, for she had great ability in expound-
ing the scriptures, and made her class so inter-
esting that it was always full of attentive students.
She endeared herself also to the hearts of the
little ones in the Primary for her good advice,
kind expressions and prompt attendance.
	Soon after she joined the Church she enjoyed
the gift of prophecy, speaking in tongues and the
nterpretation thereof, and she was ever ready to
bear a strong and powerful testimony to the Gos-
pel of Christ, being gifted with speech it seemed
easy for her to unfold the things of God to her
hearers; she will therefore be greatly missed in
all our meetings.
	WHEREAS, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to take from our midst our beloved sister and co-
worker, we feel to bow in humble submission, for
we know our loss will be her gain. Therefore be
it,
	RESOLVED, That we offer our sympathy to the
bereaved family and ask God to comfort their
hearts that they may feel that she has gone from
their sight but for a moment, where she will min-
gle with those of her loved ones in her heavenly
home.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our records, one present[-]d to the
bereaved family and one sent to the “Woman's
Exponent” for publication.
	We will miss our much loved sister,
		There will be her vacant chair,
	May we live to meet in heaven,
		For our sister will be there.
				MARY JOHNSON, Pres.
				LUCY TAYLOR, Sec.


EARTH has nothing more tender than a
woman’s heart when it is the abode of
pity.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies Semi-monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Nov. 27, 1897, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Singing “As the dew of heaven
distilling.” Prayer by Julia C. Howe.
Singing “Behold the mountain of the
Lord.”
	Counselor Stevenson was disappointed in
not having President Horne with us this
afternoon. Said she had never enjoyed a
meeting more than the one two weeks ago-
Spoke of the past Thanksgiving, thought
with the Latter-day Saints that the day of
Thanksgiving was no different than any
other day, for with them it was continual
thanksgiving.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy made the an-
nouncement that President Horne was ill
and was not able to attend the meeting this
afternoon; also bore her testimony. The
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted.
	Counselor Webb was pleased to be here
today, had made a great effort to come.
Spoke of being charitable and loving to
one another and said when she had her lit-
tle ones taken from her she felt it was al-
most more than she could bear, but now
she was glad for she knew they were safe
and that she had some shining stars there.
She felt thankful on Thanksgiving day,
but not more so than every day, to think
she was gathered here with the Saints.
	Sister Derrick related the time when she
first joined the Church and bore her testi-
mony; also referred to her Temple work
and how she felt she could do so much
good.
	Sister Brixen said when she looked
around and saw the peaceful look on the
faces of the sisters it was a testimony to
her that the Spirit of the Lord was here.
Spoke of the good the Relief Society work 
had done for her, it had helped to make
her a better woman.
	Singing “Should you feel inclined to cen-
sure.” Sister Rawlings made some re-
marks. Sister Jane Thomas bore her testi-
mony and said her desire was to be faithful
and do all the good she could.
	Sister Julia Samson made a few remarks
of thanksgiving and rejoicing. Spoke of
the gathering of the Jews, said it was over
fifty years since President Orson Hyde dedi-
cated that land. She knew that these were
all signs of the coming of the Savior.
	Sister Goss related an instance of helping
a poor person who belonged to the Church
and urged the sisters to help all the poor
they could.
	Sister Barton felt blessed in coming to
meeting, and felt there was much in our
Gospel to help us. Bore her testimony.
Singing “Now’s the day of Israel.”
	Dr. E. S. Barney testified to her enjoyment
of the singing, for this she could hear best.
She felt the Lord could be praised by sing-
ing as much as by speaking. Said her de-
sire had always been to educate and lift up
humanity, and spoke of her trials in cross-
ing the plains but felt to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things.
	Sister Augusta J. Crocheron testified that
God heard and answered prayers, and re-
lated an instance of how her prayer
had been answered.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said a remark had
been made that caused her many reflections
in regard to Temple work. Felt God’s love
and mercy reached out to every one. Said


we were all God’s children. Related an
instance of a friend of hers who died out of
the Church, but whose work in the Temple
had been done for her. Gave a notice of
the Stake conference of the Relief Society
two weeks from today. Asked the Lord to
bless all those who come to these meetings,
that they might have more of the Spirit to
take to their homes.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson made closing re-
marks and meeting adjourned subject to
the call of the president. Benediction by
Sister Lydia D. Alder.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON’S LAST WILL AND
TESTAMENT, JULY 9, 1799.

	“IT has always been a source of serious re-
gret with me to see the youth of these
United States sent to foreign countries for
the purpose of education, often before their
minds were formed, or they had imbibed
any adequate ideas of the happiness of their
own; contracting too frequently principles
unfriendly to republican government, and
to the true and genuine liberties of man-
kind; which thereafter are rarely overcome.
For these reasons it has been my ardent
wish to see a plan devised on a liberal scale,
which would have a tendency to spread
systematic ideas through all parts of this
rising empire, thereby to do away local at-
tachments and state prejudice, so far as the
nature of things would, or indeed ought to
admit from our national councils. Looking
anxiously forward to the accomplishment
of so desirable an object as this is (in my
estimation,) my mind has not been able to
contemplate any plan more likely to effect
the measure than the establishment of a
university in a central part of the United
States, to which the youth of fortune and
talents from all parts thereof might be sent
for the completion of their education in all
branches of polite literature; in arts and
sciences, in acquiring knowledge in the
principles of politics and good government,
and (as a matter of infinite importance, in
my judgment,) by associating with each
other, and forming friendships in juvenile
years, be enabled to free themselves in a
proper degree from those local prejudices
and habitual jealousies which have just
been mentioned, and which, when carried
to excess, are never failing sources of dis-
quietude to the public mind, and pregnant
of mischeivous consequences to this country;
under these impressions so fully dilated, 
 *	*	*	*
	“I give and bequeath in perpetuity the 50
shares (value $500 each) which I hold in
the Potomac company (under the aforesaid
acts of the legislature of Virginia) toward
the endowment of a university to be estab-
lished in the District of Columbia under
the auspices of the general government, if
that government should incline to extend a
a fostering hand toward it; and until such a
seminary is established and the funds aris-
ing on these shares shall be required for its
support, my further desire is that the profit
accuring therefrom shall, whenever divid-
ends are made, be laid out in purchasing
stock in the bank of Columbia, or some
other bank at the discretion of my execu-
tors, or by the treasurer of the United
States for the time being, under the direc-
tion of congress; and the dividends pro-
ceeding from the purchase of such stock is
to be invested in more stock, and so on un-

[Column 2]
til a sum adequate to the accomplishment
of this object is obtained.”
	This sum if invested as Washington
directed, would now amount to four and
one half million dollars. Hon. G. Browne
Goode, late director of the national museum
at the Smithsonian institution says:
	“The sum of $4,401,006 (amount of
Washington’s bequest with compound in-
terest to the present time), if appropriated
for this purpose by congress and placed in
the treasury of the United States, there to
remain paying interest of 6 per cent, would
yield over $264,000 each year, a sum that
would provide for many professorships,
lectureships and scholarships, and fellow-
ships, as well as for the current expenses of
several seminaries or colleges. Private
gifts would in time be added in large
amounts, and congress would, of course,
erect such buildings as from time to time
were found necessary.”


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. MARY LOWE DICKINSON sent in
her resignation as president of the Woman’s
National Council, at its recent meeting in
Nashville. It was necessitated by illness
and was accepted with regret. Mrs. May
Wright Sewall was elected to fill the
vacancy.
	THE immigration laws of this country
forbid the admittance of polygamists. Six
Mohammedan Syrians arrived at the port
of New York recently, and admitting under
cross examination that they believed a re-
ligion that countenances polygamy and that
they also believed in the custom, they were
held for further examination and possible
deportation to Turkey. The representa-
tives of the Sultan in this country intend to
make this a test case.—Ex.
	MISS ANTHONY in her address at the
New York State Woman Suffrage Conven-
tion last week, paid a high tribute to the
hospitality shown to the National Council
of Women at its recent meeting in Nash-
ville, Tenn. She said: “The National
Council is a federation made up of societies
of all kinds of women, orthodox and un-
orthodox, Jews and Unitarians. Next
year we shall have the Daughters of the
Confederacy. We were given a warm wel-
come. The people of Nashville flocked to
the Fair grounds, and cheered and seemed
to believe. As for the hospitality of that
midland and inland city of the South, all of
us agreed that we had never seen anything
like it.”


AMENDMENT. 

	To the Constitution of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, proposed by Clara
Bewick Colby.
	Change Article III to read: The membership
of this Association shall be: I. All the mem-
bers of Auxiliary State Associations arcording to
the basis of representation as established in the
By-Laws. 2. All citizens of the United States
subscribing to this constitution, and paying not
less than one dollar annually into the treasury of
this Association, shall become members thereof,
and shall be entitled to attend all meetings, to
participate in the discussion that may arise, and
to receive reports and bther documents publishd
by it. 3. The payment of fifty dollars ($50) into
the tre sury shall constitute any citizen of the
United States a Life Member of the Association,
with all the priv[-]leges belonging to the regular
annual members.”


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-	
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[beside the logo]
The 
People’s 
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver						6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City			3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver				0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON, 
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
					Receivers.
		E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
		E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


<Complete>
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

