VOL. 26	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15 TO 26 1898.	NO. 24.


CONTENTS:
	The War a Minor Question—Elizabeth Cady
Stanton. A Mothers’ Congress. Mothers’ Con-
gress in Washington. Woman’s Council on War
—May Wright Sewall. Anna Garlin Spencer on
the War. U. W. P. C. Ladies’ Semi monthly
Meeting. Biographical Sketch—Alice M. T. Tan-
ner. In Memoriam. R. S. and P. A. Reports.
Our Savior—Zion’s Convert. Literary Club
Election.
	EDITORIAL:—Editors and People who Read.
The Utah Volunteers. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:— Ode to Deseret—E. B. W. Greeting
Song—Jennie Ames Packard.


[Column 1]
ODE TO DESERET.

Thou’rt beautiful, sweet, our mountain retreat,
	There’s magic in everything here;
Tho’ the raging storm howl, and the angry sky
		scowl
	And all nature in terror appear. 
Tho’ the wind whistle shrill, and each valley and
		hill,
	Echo back to the wild music’s strain, 
Yet it chords with the heart, and doth comfort
		impart
	For it touches a sensitive vein. 
There’s a voice in the wind, which awakes in the
		mind
	Reflections naught else could have stirred,
We commune with the soul, while we try to con-
		trol
	And hush into silence each word.

’Tis a heavenly spell, no bosom can tell,
	That accords with the element’s strife,
And the loud, piercing shriek of the tempest most
		bleak, 
	Alone can awake it to life. 
Here thy tall mountains rise, and seem touching
		the skies,
	Truly wonderful, grand and sublime!
We admire to behold, so majestic and bold!
	Thou art lovely our own happy clime.

Thy ravines and thy streams, where true loveliness
		seems
	Fairer mirrored than ever before;
As we view with delight by the moon’s gentle
		light, 
	Are enough to make mortals adore.

Then thy clear silvery lake, would unconsciously
		wake
	Admiration most pure in the breast,
When the far-setting sun its day’s work hath done
	And its banners reflect from the West.

’Tis an emblem complete, of that rapture so
		sweet,
	That still lingers awhile round the heart,
When we bid an adieu, to friends constant and
		true,
	Compelled for a season to part.

Let the great and the wise, talk of Italy’s skies,
	And sing of her gay orange bowers, 
Thy skies are more fair, more salubrious thine
		air,
	More fragrant and brilliant thy flowers.

[Column 2]
Circassian maids will sink in the shade
	With Deseret’s fair daughters in sight;
Then their love for her laws, well deserve of
		applause,
	They would die in defending the right.

And then ’tis thy boast, thou canst muster a host
	Of such boys so true-hearted and brave,
Who never know fear, and when danger is near,
	Would fight till they died thee to save.

Thou art honored above all the world, we can
		prove,
	For here dwell the wisest and best, 
Who commune with the Lord and receive of His
		word,
	And an Ensign have raised in the West.

And to thy peaceful home, Zion’s children will
		come,
	And all nations shall hear of thy fame,
Highly honored art thou, to thy mandates we’ll
		bow,
	And our hearts shall exult in thy name.
								E. B. W.
Great Salt Lake City, Dec. 1850.


[Column 1]
THE WAR A MINOR QUESTION.

	Mrs. Stanton was invited by Miss An-
thony to send to the woman’s suffrage con-
ference held recently in Rochester, N. Y., a
letter on “Women and the War.” She re-
plied as follows:
New York, April 27, 1898.
Dear Miss Anthony:
	You ask me to send a letter as to wo-
man’s position in regard to the war. Many
with whom I talk feel aggrieved that they
have no voice in declaring war with Spain,
or in protesting against it. The vast
majority of men are in the same position.
Why care for a voice in an event that may
happen once in a lifetime, more than in
those of far greater importance continually
before us? Why groan over the horrors of
war when the tragedies of peace are forever
before us? Our boys in blue well fed and
clothed in camp and hospital, are better off
than our boys in rags, over-worked in mines,
in factories, in prison houses and in bare,
dingy dwellings called homes where the
family meet at scanty meals after working
ten hours, to talk over their hopeless situ-
ation in the despair of poverty.
	A friend of mine visited the bleaching
department in one of our New England
factories, where naked boys oiled from head
to foot are used to tramp pieces of shirting
in a large vat. The chemicals necessary
for bleaching are so strong as to eat the skin
unless well oiled. In time they affect the
eyes and lungs. There these boys in re-
lays tramp, tramp all day, but not to music
nor inspired with the love of country. In
England they have machinery for such
work, but in the land of the Puritans boys
are cheaper than machinery.
	On a platform of one idea mothers cannot
discuss these wrongs. We may talk of the
cruelties of Cuba now on any platform, but
not of the outrages of rich manufacturers in
the State of Massachusetts.

[Column 2]
	Under the present competetive system ex-
istence is a continual war, the law is each
one for himself, starvation and death for-
the hindmost! My message today to our
coadjutors is that we have a higher duty
than the demand for suffrage; we must now
at the end of fifty years of faithful service,
broaden our platform and consider the next
step in progress, to which the signs of the
times clearly point—namely, co-operation,
a new principle in industrial economies.
We see that the right of suffrage avails
nothing for the masses, in competetion
with the wealthy classes and, worse still,
with each other. Women all over the
country are working earnestly in many
fragmentary reforms, each believing that
her own if achieved would usher in a new
day of peace and plenty. With woman
suffrage, temperance, social purity, rigid
Sunday laws and physical culture, could
any or all be successful, we should see no
change in the condition of the masses We
need all these reforms and many more to
make existence endurable. What is life to-
day to the prisoner in his lonely cell? to the
feeble hands that keep time to the machin-
ery in all our marts of trade? to those who
have no abiding place, no title to one foot
of land on this green earth? Such are the-
fruits of competition. Our next experiment
is to be made on the broad principle of co-
operation. At the end of fifty years whose
achievements we celebrate here today, let
us reason together as to the wisdom of lay-
ing some new planks to our plat-
form.
	The co-operation idea will remodel some
codes and constitutions, creeds and cate-
chisms, social customs and conventional-
isms, the curriculum of schools and colleges;
it will give a new sense of Justice, Liberty
and Equality in all the relations of life.
Those who have eyes to see recognize the
fact that the period for all these fragment-
ary is ended. Agitation of the broader
question of philosophical socialism is now
in order. The next step in progress has
long been foreshadowed by our seers and
prophets from Mazzini and Fourier to
Thomas Paine and Henry George; and is
now being agitated by able thinkers
and writers in all of the civilized coun-
tries.
	“The few have no right to the luxuries
of life, while the many are denied the nec-
essities.” This motto is the natural out-
growth of the one so familiar on our plat-
form and in our official paper “Equal rights
for all” under our present competitive sys-
tern. “All men are born free with equal
right to life, liberty and happiness.” The
natural outgrowth of this sentiment is the
vital principle of Christian religion—“Love
thy neighbor as thyself.” In broad liberal
principles the Suffrage Association should be
the leader of thought for women, and not
narrow its platform from year to year to
one idea, rejecting all relative ideas as side
issues.
	“Progress is the victory of a new thought
over old superstition.”
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
—Ex.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
A MOTHERS’ CONGRESS.

	There was a well attended meeting of
ladies at the rooms of the Woman’s Club,
in the joint building on the morning of May
10, and a State organization was effected to
be known as the Utah State Mothers’ Con-
gress.
	Mrs. Maynard as temporary chairman ex-
plained the object of the meeting. Mrs.
Selden I. Clawson was appointed tempor-
ary secretary.
	Mrs. L. C. Trent moved that a Mothers’
Congress for the State of Utah be held
at Salt Lake City, the time and place to be
hereafter decided.
	Mrs. C. E. Allen spoke at some length
upon the necessity existing for a movement
of the kind now contemplated. Miss Mary
C. May also expressed her interest in the
undertaking and especially stated her anx-
iety to do something for young women—
unmarried women, as well as for mothers,
and that this movement should prove of
benefit to both classes. Mrs. Parsons re-
ferred to the first mothers’ meeting held in
this city about thirteen years ago, and was
glad to note that the present effort at or-
ganization was likely to prove successful.
Mrs. F. D. Kimball expressed great inter-
est in the congress and hoped that good re-
sults would attend its efforts.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells appreciated the
great amount of help the congress could
give mothers, in whose interests we had
been working for many years. This move-
ment was looked upon as a new one in the
United States, but the facts were that the
Relief Society of Utah had been carrying on
successfully a similar work for many years
past. The present movement could not
be otherwise than of great benefit to mothers.
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon expressed her
willingness to do all in her power to assist
in bringing the present movement to a suc-
cessful working basis; and like the previous
speaker Dr. Cannon mentioned the good
work which has been done by the Relief
Society in this State in years gone by and
up to the present time in the proper teach-
ing of mothers and daughters.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards felt that the wo-
men present, while among the busiest in
Utah, were the proper ones to carry this
movement on to success.
	Mrs. McVicker indicated her great in-
terest in the present movement and said
that she would lend her best aid to bring
it to a successful working order.
	Mrs. H. S. Young was deeply interested
in this congress and expressed a willing-
ness to assist in the work among the young-
er persons to be benefited by the congress.
The speaker being already engaged in
the kindergarten work to a great extent,
she would be pleased to help in a similar
direction in the present movement. 
	Mrs. J. C. Weeter of Park City pledged
the interest and assistance of the ladies in
her town to this movement. Mrs. Freeze
said how much she was interested in this
work and the motion that was previously
made to hold a Mothers’ Congress in this
city was carried.
	Mrs. Parsons moved that a committee of
three be appointed by the chair to make
nominations for officers. This motion was
amended by Mrs. Wells so that the com-
mittee would consist of seven instead of
three members, and then the motion carried
and the chair appointed Masdames E. H.
Parsons, H. S. Young, C. E. Allen, J. E.
Bamberger, L. C. Trent, F. D. Kimball,

[Column 2]
and M. B. Sowles as such a committee.
   After retiring for consultation the com-
mittee reported the following officers and
the report was accepted and adopted:
	For president, Miss Mary C. May.
	For vice-presidents, Mrs. McCornick,
Mrs. Louie Felt, Salt Lake City; Mrs.
Wm. Driver, Ogden; Mrs. Reed Smoot,
Provo; Mrs. Reed, Mt. Pleasant; Miss
Kewley, Logan; Mrs. Ferry, Park City, and
Mrs. Martin of Manti.
	It was also provided that the officers and
the heads of all standing committees con-
stitute the executive board. The president
was empowered to appoint committees.
WILL BE HELD IN SALT LAKE CITY IN
JUNE.
	Last night the officers appointed by the
ladies advocating the holding of a mothers’
congress in Utah met at the Templeton in
executive session. A general discussion of
plans for the congress was held and it was
determined to hold the congress in this city
sometime in the latter part of June. The
committees to have charge of the work for
the first congress were named and are as
follows:
	General Officers—Miss May of the Utah
University is president, Mrs. Louie Felt
is vice-president.
	Program—Mrs. Mila Tupper Maynard,
Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Mrs. F. D. Kim-
ball.
	Finance—Mrs. J. E. Bamberger, Mrs. L.
C. Trent, Mrs. P. P. Jennings, Mrs. Maria
Dougall, Mrs. J. T. Gilmer, Mrs. F. S.
Richards, Mrs. Isaac Jennings.
	Entertainment—Mrs. Elizabeth McCune,
Mrs. A. T. Hyde, Mrs. J. H. Bennett,
Mrs. Eugene Lewis, Mrs. A. L. Gray, Mrs.
Phoebe Beattie, Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Mrs.
Hattie Young, Mrs. Annie S. Young, Mrs.
Clarence T. Brown, Mrs. Ellis R.
Shipp, Mrs. D. J. Sharp, Miss Catherine Wells.
	Press—Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Evange-
line Powers, Mrs. Annie J. Cope Miss
Emily Katz, Mrs. Thomas Weir, Mrs. H.
C. Wallace, Miss Mae Taylor, Mrs. Susa
Young Gates, Provo; Mrs. Mamie Rich-
ards, Ogden; Mrs. D. C. McLaughlin,
Park City; Miss Moorhead, Logan; Miss
Katie Dougall, Springville; Miss Serena
Neilson, Mount Pleasant; Miss Alvira
Reese, Brigham City; Mrs. A. L. Cox, Manti.
Miss Rowberry, Grantsville; Mrs.
George Ryan, Tintic; Miss May, Nephi;
Mrs. Maria Dix, Mercur; Mrs. Abram
Hatch Jr., Heber; Mrs. Margaret Callis,
Coalville; Mrs. Julia McDonald, St. George;
Miss Bessie White, Beaver; and one to
be named from Bingham.
	Music—Mrs. W. W. Riter, Mrs. F. B.
Hamilton, Miss Geneva Jennings, Mrs.
Nellie Pugsley, Mrs. M. J. Hughes, Mrs.
C. G. Plummer, Miss Winnifred McGarth,
Mrs. Frank Jennings, Miss Cecelia Sharp,
Mrs. Kate B. Anderson.
	Transportation—Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Mrs. Joseph T. Kingsbury, Mrs. C. S. Kin-
ney, Mrs. Ella Stewart, Mrs. H. W.
Brown, Mrs Ruth M. Fox, Mrs. J. F.
Millspaugh, Mrs. J. E. Talmage, Mrs. L.
L. Archer.
	Reception—Mrs. E. H. Parsons, Mrs.
Ellsworth Daggett, Mrs. M. C. Fox, Mrs.
George M. Downey, Mrs. William M.
Stewart, Mrs. J. E. Jennings, Mrs. W. A.
Nelden. Mrs. E. B. Critchlow, Dr. R. B.
Pratt, Mrs. Frank Pierce, Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze, Mrs. W. E. Smedley, Mrs. C. C.
Goodwin, Mrs. Hubbard W. Reed, Mrs.
H. L. A. Culmer, Mrs. J. H. McVicker,

[Column 3]
Mrs. Nellie Taylor, Mrs. C.H. Van Arman,
Mrs. J. C. Royal, Mrs. Camilla Cobb, Mrs.
Sol Siegel,
	Mrs. C. E. Allen is corresponding secre-
tary; Mrs. H. S. Young, secretary, and
Mrs. W. P. Lynn, treasurer.


MOTHERS’ CONGRFSS IN WASH-
INGTON.

DELEGATE FROM UTAH.
	Mrs. Hannah Sorensen, director of Moth-
ers’ Conference in Salt Lake City, Utah,
made an interesting address on the “Physi-
cal Side of Motherhood.” She said she
regarded woman, in her mission as a moth-
er, as the mediator between God and man
in the greatest function of creation. The
young women and the men of today who
marry and take upon themselves the vast
responsibilities which are to last not only
through this world, but through eternity,
have no conception of what they owe to
God and to themselves. Marriage is em-
braced without an iota of knowledge of the
physical environments that make mother-
hood a glory and a song. Girls should be
educated to a proper knowledge of the re-
sponsibilities they are to undertake when
they embrace matrimony. The physical re-
demption of women would mean the glori-
fication of mankind.

DISSIPATION OF FEARS.
	All the fears and all the curses that now
so ruthlessly surround motherhood by rea-
son of the ignorance of the laws of nature
and of God would be dissipated if the young
girls were properly and purely made ac-
quainted with the physical laws they should
obey and which are to govern their future
and the future of humanity as well.
	Mrs. Sorensen spoke with a slight Ger-
man accent which made her address piquant
and interesting, but in no manner retarded
the easy flow of her strong and impressive
sentences.
	In concluding her address she made a
vigorous plea in favor of vegetarianism, de-
claring herself to be a vegetarian. She
created much amusement by stating that
she believed she was a little wiser than
when she “ate the animals up.”
	She created another round of laughter
when she said: “I am proud to be a wo-
man. I wouldn’t be a man for anything in
the world, and I wouldn’t have a man to
want to be a woman. Each has a sphere
and each is dependent upon the other.”
	Mrs. Sorensen in conclusion, paid a high
tribute to the movement and its leaders
and was applauded for several minutes.
	A discussion of the two papers was invit-
ed by the president, and an interesting in-
terchange of views was indulged in, par-
ticularly on Mrs. Schoff’s paper, by a num-
ber of the delegates.

MRS. HENSLEY’S VIEWS.
	Mrs. Sorensen’s paper was also discussed.
Mrs. Hensley who spoke from one of the
private boxes, was very earnest in her ap-
proval of the argument Mrs. Sorensen had
advanced. She said she had long been
amazed at the mock modesty which had
prevented the proper consideration of the
subject Mrs. Sorensen had so intelligently
treated.
	The Countess of Brazza, when the ap-
plause which greeted Mrs. Hensley had sub-
sided, gave a brief but interesting descrip-
tion of the advancement of practical educa-
tion of women in Europe.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GREETING SONG.

	[Dedicated by [-]he author to Mrs. Hannah J.
Bailey, on her return home after a six months' ab-
sence on acount of her health, and sung at the
May W. C. T. U. meeting.]
How close to our hearts is our white ribbon
leader.
Our dear Mrs. Bailey, so kind and so true;
How much in our Union we lovingly need her,
How gladly today we greet her anew.
We hail her with pleasure, we thank God in
Heaven,
That He has returned her in health to us now;
Our heart’s adoration to Him should be given;
In praise and thanksgiving before Him we bow.
CHORUS.
Our dearly loved leader, our white ribbon leader,
We greet you today with voice and with song.
We mourn with the nations the death of our
Frances,
America’s queen, though uncrowned until now;
Though God takes the laborers the work still ad-
vances,
As we to His will do submissively bow.
Manhood is nobler and womanhood truer,
E’en childhood is safer because of her life;
All hearts loved her fondly, all homage was due
her,
As nobly she led in our temperance strife.
CHORUS.
Our promoted comrade, our national chieftain,
Our beloved leader, advanced to a throne.
Oh, let us be doing the work of the Master,
Remember we ne’er ca[-] again pass this way;
We’ll follow our light, with no thought of [-]isaster,
Till we, too, shall reply to the roll call one day.
And there with the ransomed, the pure and the
holy,
With Christ and the angels forever to dwell,
We’ll greet Frances Willard and dear Mrs. Bailey,
And the white ribbon sisters we all love so well.
CHORUS.
Then let us, oh, let us be faithful my sisters,
And prove ourselves worthy of leaders so true.
JENNIE AMES PACKARD.
East Winthrop, May 3, 1898.


[Column 1]
WOMEN'S COUNCIL ON WAR.

	The following letter was addressed to
President McKinley several weeks ago by
Mrs. May Wright Sewall and seventeen
other officers of the Woman’s National
Council of the United States:
Hon. William McKinley,
President of the United States,
Washington, D. C.
	My Dear Sir—Learning that your friends
from all parts of the country are sending to
you expressions of their opinions on the
present crisis, and that you are desirous of
knowing the opinion of the people of the
United States, it seems to us, who repre-
sent the largest organization of women in
the United States, only just to ourselves
and to society at large to ask a moment’s
attention to our view.
	We, who believe in righteousness, and
who also believe that peace is a large ele-
ment in righteousness, have watched with
admiration and gratitude the bearing of the
Chief Magistrate of our great Republic dur-
ing these recent weeks so full of agitation
and of menace. We hear on all sides that
war will be avoided if it can be done with-
out impairing our national honor.

[Column 2]
	Dear Mr. McKinley we beg the privileg
of suggesting that, in the evolution of the
conception of honor, and of the modes by
which honor may be defended and main-
tained, our nation has made no less pro-
gress than have the men belonging to it.
It has long since ceased to be regarded as
possible that a man may find the defense of
his honor in slaying his enemy, however of-
fensive and unjustifiable the conduct of that
enemy may have been. We think that it
is equally impossible that the honor of our
nation can be maintained by the destruction
of a sister nation. We think it impossible
that the death of 260 brave and innocent
men who found death in the disaster of the
Maine can be atoned for by the death of
any number of Spaniards, or of any num-
ber of their own countrymen who should
meet and slay one another on the field of
battle.
	The organization of women which I have
the honor to represent is a federation of or-
ganizations of women, each of which is de-
voted to some work on behalf of charity,
education, religion or reform, and all of
which are united in their advocacy of the
doctrines of Social Peace and International
Arbitration.
	We feel that so soon as a man is elected
to the Presidency of the United States he is
no longer the representative merely of the
party that elected him, but that he is no
less the representative of the party that en-
deavored to defeat him. We feel also that
a man occupying the exalted position of
President of the oldest and the most power-
ful of modern Republics is no less the
representative of the women of his country
than he is the representative of the men of
his country. We also feel that the size of
our country, its numerous population, its
great wealth and the stability of its govern-
ment all unite in giving you, who are its
honored head, perfect independence of
action. We profoundly feel that the wise
and temperate maintenance of the attitude
of peace at this time by our own Govern-
ment will do much to advance a reverence
for the doctrine of peace and to inspire in
other nations the courage to practice it.
	You, President McKinley, have an op-
portunity to become, not merely the defend-
er of the rights and the honor of your own
country, but the protector and defender as
well of the sublime principle of peace for
the world.
	As it is in the name of more than one
million of women that we who represent
them send this expression of gratitude and
this petition for the maintenance of peace,
we hope that it may meet with considera-
tion; and that it may have its own feeble
share among the influences that shall hold
you firm in the midst of agitation.
I have the honor to remain
Very sincerely yours,
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
President of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States.


ANNA GARLIN SPENCER ON THE
			WAR.

Providence, R. I., May 2, 1898.

To the Honprable Nelson W. Aldrich, and
	Messrs. Westmore, Bull, and Capron,
Senators and Representatives from Rhode
Island in the Congress of the United
States:
Respected Sirs—This communication is


addressed to you from a portion of your
constituency, namely “The Local Council 
of the Women of Rhode Island,” which is 
a delegate body representing thirty-one of
the leading educational, charitable and re-
formatory associations and institutions of 
the State and of the city of Providence 
which are managed by women, or in which 
women are prominent as officers and voting
members.
	At an executive session of this Council of
Women held April 4, the delegates present 
(representing sixteen of those organizations) 
passed unanimously the following resolu-
tions, and ordered them forwarded to you, 
Honorable Gentlemen, as the persons just 
now charged with the duty of representing 
our State in the National Government: 
	Resolved, That the women of this Coun-
cil here present view, with deep concern the 
present situation of our country in respect 
to Spanish-Cuban affairs. 
	That we beg our Rhode Island members 
of Congress to remember that the strength 
of self-control, the dignity of patience and 
the calm of balanced judgment alone give 
lasting power to a nation, as to an indi-
vidual; and we beg them also to remember 
that the gospel of universal brotherhood has 
supreme right of way in all social and ethi-
cal questions, and, therefore, that the uni-
versal peace, which is the final expression
of that gospel, should be considered sacred 
in all the deliberations of this hour, while 
the command to be “first pure” and just,
“then peaceable,” should not be ignored 
when Cuba’s sufferings and the loss of our 
own brave men stir all hearts to righteous
indignation.
	That as patriots and philanthropists we
earnestly desire to see the end of all cruelty 
and wrong; but as “human beings of the 
mother sex,” pledged by virtue of our office 
to full regard for the sacredness of human 
life and against the methods of war, we 
plead that all possible means for a peaceable 
ending of such cruelty and wrong be ex-
hausted before recourse is had to the sword, 
which, when wielded in any cause, even 
the most righteous, brings moral confusion, 
social degradation, family bereavement and 
financial loss to both the avenger and the 
evil-doer whose deeds are thus avenged. 
		ANNA GARLIN SPECNER, 
President of the Local Council of the Wo-
	men of Rhode Island. 
Mrs. E. E. Hill, Miss E. I. Nichols Secretaries,


MISS JANE ADDAMS of Chicago, in the
April International Journal of Ethics, has
an article entitled “Ethical Survivals in
Municipal Corruption.”
	A  NEW law requires all public school dis-
tricts of New York State to supply public
schools with flags, which must be displayed
during school hours on or near the schools
house.
	CLARA BARTON has started for Cuba
again with an army of women. They car-
ry food for the starving, clothing for the
naked, medicine for the sick and succor for
the dying. Surely such soldiers as Red
Cross women deserve to be voters!
	SOROSIS celebrated its thirtieth birthday
last week. The subject discussed was
"The Woman with Power." Miss Helen
M. Winslow of the N. E. W. P. A., who
was present, spoke of Lucy Stone as an ex-
ample of the woman with power, and the
allusion called out warm applause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - 	-	 Editor.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis- 
count regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter. 

	SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15 TO 26, 1898.


[Column 1]
EDITORS AND PEOPLE WHO READ.

	One who is engaged in newspaper work
cannot help thinking and feeling that the
people in whose interest this class of toilers
labor are very unappreciative. No matter
how earnest and diligent the efforts of editors
and reporters whose time, thought and
energies are literally absorbed in what can be
done to advocate, instruct and reform, to
keep their readers abreast of the times and
acquainted with such matters as come within
their particular province, it seems to be one
and the same unless financial success is se-
cured.
	The few who are always prompt with sub-
scriptions wonder how it can possibly be that
the paper is not more prosperous, and those
who do not trouble about paying, or move
from place to place and never pay up are
o[-]ten aggrieved at this and that, and when
newspapers are so amply illustrated many
think it an actual hardship to pay for some-
thing not so progressive, or so much in
keeping with these days of sensational
literature and pictorial illustrations, and there-
fore a very plain, modest, unassuming paper
that comes directly into the home life with-
out any flourishes or ostentation is considered
of little or no consequence, and does not
please the public.
	Financial success is not the rule in the
line of work followed by women's papers
generally, who advocate reform, in fact it is
the execption and not the rule. During
the last few years many of the newspapers
and magazines published by women have
had to suspend and others that are still strug-
gling, labor under heavy encumbrances and
great responsibilities.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston per-
haps (and indeed we might be justified in
saying) the most popular and most widely
circulated of any woman's paper in America,
entered upon its 29th year in January last,
and in an editorial note records the fact that
in 1870 when it was founded, £2,000 was
raised irom friends of the movement by the
editor, and founder, Lucy Stone, for its
capital. Within the first two years all that
capital was expended and further financial
aid was needed and was forthcoming.
And moreover it is stated “that the Woman’s
Journal has never been self-supporting. Al-
most every year its friends have had to meet
a deficit.” The recompense is in the posi-
tive advance in public sentiment, the change
of laws, customs and opinions, co-education
and various other concessions and reforms in
the establishment of political equality, munic-
ipal and school government and in every way

[Column 2]
helping on the people along these lines of
higher thought, higher education and great-
er enlightenment.
	Those who are familiar with the business
matters of the papers published in Salt Lake
City know what financial embarrassments
there have been to battle with, and how diffi-
cult it has been to keep going.
	To come down to the little paper, the
“Woman’s Exponent,” and tell its readers
how it has championed the cause of the wo-
men of this intermountain region would take
far too much time and space. Certainly
the Latter-day Saint women ought to know
and to realize that the greatest efforts have
been and are being made to keep it alive;
and surely its record has been for the eleva-
tion and education of women along all the
lines of progressive thought and general in-
formation, and the encouragement of home
industries and home culture.
	As a matter of fact some of the ablest
authors and writers among the young people
began their literary work in the columns of
the “Woman’s Exponent.” The letters that
have been received from time to time show-
ing the interest taken in this little paper are
proof direct of the importance of its mission
to those outside of the Church; and to the
sisters and Elders on missions there is abun-
dant testimony of its value. Recently the
editor received a letter from Amsterdam ask-
ing that a complete file of the “Woman’s
Exponent” be furnished for the Exhibition
which will be held at the Hague during the
coming summer of Woman’s Industries and
subjects concerning the woman’s question.
This is the fifth call of this kind, though it
is the first from a foreign country, and will
be responded to as soon as possible.
	This number of the paper completes the
26th year of its publication, and what ad-
vantage it has been to the women of this
region of country and particularly to the 
women of Zion can never be estimated.
However, let us all hope that the future
may be more hopeful, and that those en-
gaged in the various branches and along
the several lines of woman’s work and pro-
gressive thought may see the importance of
a paper that makes a specialty of recogniz-
ing women’s organizations and of keeping
in touch with the interests of women
generally and encouraging all higher, purer
and better living according to higher laws
in the home and in the great world of man-
kind.


[Column 1]
THE UTAH VOLUNTEERS.

	The hearts of the mothers, wives, sisters,
daughters and sweethearts, and of many
fathers, brothers and friends in this fair
State have been stirred to their inmost
depths during the last few days by the de-
parture from home of the Utah Volunteers,
who it is confidently expected will soon be
called into actual service in this cruel war
now in operation between Spain and the
United States. The leave takings and fare-
wells have been pathetic to say the least,
though all have tried to be brave and stout-
hearted when saying their goodbye and
“God bless you.”
	It is the first experience of the kind since
these mountain vales were settled, though
there have been Indian skirmishes in which
some have had to engage, yett hese difficult-
ies were near home and only a few were
called out and that only for a brief time;
while with those who leave now time and
place is uncertain. God grant it may be

[Column 2]
for a short period and that all may return
safely.
	If this be a righteous war, a struggle for
human liberty, then men who go forth
have a right to expect that the Lord will
over-rule and preserve those engaged in
His work. He is able to care for those who
go, on the sea and on the land, who put
their trust in Him and have faith in His
guidance and protection.
	The first company of Utah Volunteers
took their departure May 15, to join Col.
Torrey’s regiment at Ft. Russell near Chey-
enne, in charge of Gen. John Q. Cannon.
Eighty-four picked men, who were all ex-
pected to be excellent riders and good
marksmen. They went without any parade
of banners or music, no display of any sort
yet these brave boys are expected to go into
the heat of the battle, into the most danger-
ous places; it was as though the citizens did
not realize the situation; many regrets have
been expressed since that they were allowed
to go without any sort of patriotic demonstra-
tion, but while all were outwardly calm,
many fervent prayers were quietly offered
up and blessings wafted to heaven as the
train pulled out of the depot bearing the
loved ones away.
	On May 20th the two companies of artill-
ery, Battery A. and Battery B. that had been
recruiting and drilling at Camp Kent broke
camp and marched to the depot—bands of
music, flags from all the available places,
and the National Guard in uniform and
crowds of citizens and school children lined
the streets cheering and showing every dem-
onstration of respect, admiration and patriot-
ism—the University and Latter day Saints
colleges with their handsome flags and ban-
ners made a most effective display. Captain
Richard W. Young and Captain F. J. Grant
werein charge of the Companies.
	Committees of ladies who had been dili-
gently working in the interest of the Volun-
teers beforehand were at the station and
served coffee, cakes and sandwiches to offic-
ers and men, not omiting any; the cars had
been handsomely decorated by the ladies
with small flags, streamers and bunting, al-
so lilacs, snowballs and other flowers of the
season. Everything that could be done to
make it an occasion pleasant to look back
upon by the boys when far away seemed to
have been thought out and accomplished.
	The Guidons given by the Cleofan to each
campany were conspicuously in evidence
and made an attractive feature in the display
	On Tuesday, May 24, the last company
of Utah.Volunteers under Captain Caine
of the Cavalry left Camp Kent, having been
ordered to San Francisco. The day was not
very fine but yet crowds of patriotic people
waited on the streets to cheer and give them
honor as they passed on their way to the
depot on horseback in uniform, bands were
playing and banners and flags waving and
every demonstration of respect shown them
and the goodbyes farewells and God bless
you continuous and heartfelt. The cars
were beautifully decorated by the commit-
tee of ladies and the committee on refresh-
ments accompanied the Cavalry men to
Ogden and served refreshments on the
train.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ERRATA:—In the poem “Hispania” pub-
lished in the last “Exponent,” the word
liberty in the last line should have been blood.


THE Relief Society conference which had
been talked of for June has been postponed
until sometime during the first part of the
month of August next, on account of the
general confusion prevailing throughout
the West as well as the East, because of the
call for volunteers for the war with Spain.
Due notice will be given previous to the
conference when the date is decided upon.
	THE ladies of this city are working dili-
gently as a temporary organization of the
Red Cross for the Volunteers, and intend as
soon as possible to organize permanently a
Red Cross Society to become auxiliary to
the National Red Cross Society. The
president pro tem is Mrs. P. J. Riter, and
there is a secretary, corresponding secre-
tary and treasurer appointed to act until a
permanent organization is effected, also an
executive committee who are authorized to
call to their aid such other assistants as are
necessary for the work in hand.
	THE committee of ladies having in
charge the entertainment given for the
benefit of the Utah volunteers have issued
the following card of thanks: "To all
 who so generously assisted both by work
and donations, among those who should be
prominently mentioned are the following:
The Hon. Heber J. Grant, for the use of
the Salt Lake Theater, and to the attaches;
also to Mr. Mulvey for the kind offer of the
Grand Opera House for the same purpose;
to the Union Light and Power company; to
the several bands for their soul-inspiring
music; the Knights of Pythias band, Held's
band, Weihe's orchestra, the Grand orches-
tra; to the Salt Lake Opera company, Or-
pheus club, and Christensen's band; to the
Misses Emma Luut and Lucile Jennings;
to the press for their generous assistance;
the Deseret News, Tribune and Herald;
Ackerman Printing company; Utah Litho-
graphing company; Reporter Printing com-
pany; Western Bill Posting company; New
Grand Posting company; Lester Wallach;
Salt Lake Street Railway company; to the
merchants who gave so liberally, Walker
Bros. Dry Goods company, Z. C. M. I.; F.
Auerbach & Bro.; Spencer Clawson; H.
Dinwoodey Furniture company; Lace
House, Cohn Bros; R. K. Thomas; the
Syndicate; Evans the florist; L. F. Hammel
Domestic Laundry; for advertising; to the
young ladies who sold the badges, and the
boys who assisted with the decorations.
Mrs. William Rigby of the Seventh ward
of this city having heard of the work by
the ladies committee handed in $5.00 for
the cause. If any who have so kindly
rendered aid in this patriotic movement
should have been overlooked in making
this public acknowledgement, we trust they
will pardon the committee and realize that
their work has been appreciated. In behalf
of the Ladies committee, we thank one and
all who so nobly responded.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	The ladies of the U. W. P. C. met ac-
cording to adjournment April 30, 1898, in
the "Woman's Exponent" office, President
Romania B. Pratt presiding. Opening
prayer by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Roll call re-
sponded to by quotations from noted
American women.
	Under unfinished business President Pratt
stated that Margaret A. Caine had been ap-
pointed delegate to the Council of Woman's


Clubs. Under new business President
Pratt reported a meeting of the Council
held Saturday morning April 30. General
discussion followed. The Curfew law was
discussed and on motion of Lydia D. Alder
was laid over for further consideration;
seconded by Mrs. E. B. Wells and carried.
	A very pleasing and interesting paper on
Frances Elizabeth Willard was read by
Mrs. E. B. Wells. One on Emile Zola by
Helen V. Kimball was listened to with
deep interest. A poem by Lydia D. Alder
"Hispania" was sympathetic, patriotic and
timely. President Pratt made some excel-
lent remarks on the Spanish-Cuban situa-
tion and the causes given in history leading
to the present trouble, referring particularly
to Spanish tyranny and cruelty. Edith R.
Lovsey was excused from giving a paper on
Alfred Austin, poet laureate of England.
	The program was presented for next meet-
ing, minutes read, corrected and approved,
and prayer offered by Ella W. Hyde.
	Program of U. W. P. C. for May 31,
1898. Patriotic original sentiments on
war. Short talk on Alfred Austin, Edith
Lovsey. The Red Cross, Annie W. Can-
non. Royal family of Spain and the pres-
ent generals, Luella Rhodes. Current
events, including the letters sent from wo-
men's organizations concerning the war,
and a mother's letter whose son was killed
on the Maine, Mary J. Lambert.
M. A. J. LAMBERT, Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday, April 16, 1898. Singing
“Oh say what is truth.” Prayer by Sister
Margaret P. Young. Singing “O, my
Father.” Counselor E. J. Stevenson pre-
sided. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were unavoidably omitted.
	Sister Stevenson expressed her regret at
the absence of President Horne and urged
the sisters to pray that all things might be
over-ruled for good in these troublous times,
that if our young men were called out to
war they might be preserved from harm.
Referred to our late conference, thought we
had never before had such a good one where
so much good instruction was given.
	Sister Carrington prayed that the sons of
Zion might be preserved in these trying
times.
	Sister Hannah Wright felt it was good
for us to meet together, knew we would
have a good meeting, spoke upon the war
cries and expressed her fears, but said the
Lord had promised that “there should be
peace in Zion.”
	Sister Brixen spoke of her enjoyment of
the conference, felt very thankful for this
and felt that if our young men were called
out to war the ones who kept the word of
wisdom would be preserved. Said she was
going away to gather her genealogy, prayed
that she might be blessed in going and
bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy spoke of reading
the Voice of Warning, and what a grand
book it was and the amount of good teach-
ing there was in it.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt very thankful
for the privileges she enjoyed in the Gospel,
knew they were very great, and quoted the
Bible in regard to war wherein it said that
“the wicked should slay the wicked.” Said
we should pray for peace rather than war,

[Column 2]
felt if the mothers and grandmothers prayed
earnestly, that our sons would not be called
out to war, but if they were that they
would be preserved, testified that God did
hear and answer prayers and felt that Presi-
dent McKinley was very wise in taking the
course, he had.
	Sister Armeda Young spoke of teaching
our children to be peace-makers instead of
the reverse, knew there was much responsi-
bility resting upon the mothers.
	Sister Maria Nebeker said that God had
promised to be a husband to the widow,
this she had seen literally fulfilled in her
own case. Spoke of the war and said God
had promised to fight our battles, felt if our
young men were called out they would be
looked after as they were in olden times.
Said we were all in the hands of the Lord,
and prayed He would look down in mercy
upon us.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke of a meeting she
attended of sisters and after the meet-
ing many of them came up to her for a
blessing, and how the Spirit of the Lord
was poured out upon her, also spoke on the
war. Spoke of patriarchal blessings, urged
the sisters to have them and said there was
virtue in them. Spoke of faith, said we,
should cultivate it more than we did and
made many instructive remarks.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt impressed to
read the 98th section of the Doctrine and
Covenants, felt it was applicable to the pres-
ent time and thought President McKinley
had unknowingly carried out this plan.
Felt that every mother who prayed earnest-
ly to the Lord that her son would be pre-
served from harm if he were pressed into
service, would have her prayer answered.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, felt impressed that our sons
would not be called upon for active service,
we need not fear for the Lord was with us
and would continue to bless us, felt to re-
joice through it all and prayed the Lord
would bless every mother and give her.
peace.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb knew we
were greatly blessed that we could meet
here in peace when all is strife and war
outside, felt our sons would be preserved,
for the Lord’s care was over us. Testified
that there was a mighty power in prayer,
made many beautiful remarks and urged
the sisters to be faithful in their Relief
Society labors, it would benefit them.
	A sister in the congregation who was a
stranger said she would feel condemned if
she did not express her feelings. Although
a stranger in our midst she could feel the
same sweet spirit that always attends such
meetings.
	Counselor Stevenson felt we had had a
very enjoyable and beneficial time, made
some closing remarks, and meeting ad-
journed for two weeks by singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished,” and benedic-
tion by Sister E. S. Taylor.
ZINA H. BULL, Sec.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall May 14, 1898, President Horne presid-
ing. Opened by singing “Lord we come
before Thee now.” Prayer by Counselor
Clara C. Cannon. Singing “Happy souls
who pray.” The secretary being absent
Sister Lydia D. Alder was called to act in
that capacity. The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved. Present
on the stand of the general board of the Re-


[Column 1]
lief Society were President Zina D. H.
Young and Counselor B. W. Smith.
	President Horne said she was glad to see
so many sisters present in response to the
call published. The meeting would be a
little different than usual, as a matter of
business of great importance was to be con-
sidered. “Dr. Margaret Roberts has very
generously offered to instruct a corps of
sisters in the art of nursing the sick among
us free of charge. We have counseled to-
gether and estimate that about four sisters
from each of the wards of this Stake would
make a good sized class. We think if the
Relief Society presidents and those of the
the Young Ladies Mutual would consult
together they could get such sisters as
would make good nurses, then after they
had received their education we would ex-
pect them to devote some of their time to
nursing the poor when sick in their respect-
ive wards, or if the sisters in one ward
should be out nursing, then some could be
called from another ward. None would be
expected to leave where they were nursing
until such time as the sick could be left.
This seems to us to be a step in the right
direction. The Relief Society has been
sorely taxed in the years that are past to
obtain nurses when the demand for them
was so urgent, and now Dr. Robert’s offer
to instruct this class is highly appreciated.
We spend thousands of dollars annually to
send missionaries abroad to preach the Gos-
pel, now this is an opportunity to do mis-
sionary work at home among the poor as
well as those blessed with this world’s
goods; and sisters, do not try to get the
pay for all you do in this life, be willing to
do as Jesus taught, lay up treasures in
heaven ‘Where moth nor rust cannot enter,
nor thieves break through and steal.’ Look
at our organizations; we are organized from
youth to old age, yet some cannot be con-
trolled, will be subject to no law; and so it
will be until evil is swept from the earth.
Some of our sisters are sent abroad as mis-
sionaries now, set apart for that work and,
as I read in the paper, were appointed to
their field of labor as the brethren are, but
they cannot baptize nor lay on hands for
the gift of the Holy Ghost, but neither can
our brethren who do not hold that order of
priesthood; but they can preach the Gospel
and do much good. We have our own
agency and can choose either to do good or
evil, and they cannot be controlled any
more than our Heavenly Father could
control His children in the heavens above,
when one third rebelled and were cast out
from his presence. But we should learn to
do good. When this Society was organized
in Nauvoo the Prophet Joseph instructed
us that our mission was to our own selves,
but we should always be ready to help the
poor and the weak of every color and clime
Now in this subject we are considering we
have the approbation and ‘God blessing’ of
our brethren both those of the First Presid-
ency and the Presidency of the Stake. The
course of study will consist of say three
lessons a week, and one public lecture for
the benefit of young mothers and all those
who are desirous of learning some of the
laws of life and health, also how to take
care of the children that God has entrusted
to their care. Bishop Taylor of the 14th
ward has kindly offered a room in the wing
of this building for these lectures, but a
committee was formed to call upon Prof.
Nelson of the L. D. S. Business college
with a view of securing the newly-fitted up,
beautiful lecture room for the purpose. Prof.

[Column 2]
Nelson magnamiously placed the lecture
hall at the disposal of the sisters for their
noble enterprise at such time as would be
suitable to them, and for this great favor
we of the Stake board of the Relief Society
tender him a vote of thanks, which all the
sisters, I know, will heartily endorse. Now
sisters, this hall will be free of charge un-
less we should desire to hold evening ses-
sions, when we would only have to pay for
the lights. As it is so central, and easily
reached from all the cars it will be appreci-
ated by all. It is in the Templeton and is
reached by the elevator.”
	President Horne here introduced Dr.
Roberts who said: “I pray that I may
make this matter clear to you, I feel that
the Relief Society is doing a good work,
yet I have seen so many who have lacked
good nursing that this thought entered my
heart, to aid those who could not pay in get-
ting good nurses. I am pleased that the
Relief Society board feel as I do about this
matter, it is pleasing to see and feel alike
with our sisters who have carried this bur-
den so long. I think the Relief Society
should lead out in this matter, we have
trained nurses with us today who earn $25
a week and we have good, bright young
ladies, many of them educated at our col-
leges and universities, who could become
just as competent. A nurse should know
as much as wives and mothers, and I feel
that no woman should become a mother un-
til she knows how to take care of her baby.
I am willing to devote my time to this
class and do my very best work, but I want
you to understand that the girls will neith-
er be doctors nor surgeons, but they can
be proficient in everything that can be
learned outside of a hospital. The ages of
those you select can range from eighteen to
forty, but they must be strictly, honest and
truthful, these are two grand requisites
for a nurse, I also think a nurse should be
sweet looking and sympathetic, so that the
sick one feels better as soon as she enters
the room. I think when we get through
with this class they will say that they have
some faith, for that is much required
around the sick. I commence this work
under the auspices of the Stake board of
the Relief Society, so you will know who
is behind me. Lately I have read in the
journals that 2,000 nurses have graduated for
that vocation with honor. After these sis-
ters are chosen we will meet together and
decide upon the days and the hour that
would suit the majority.”
	President Zina D. H. Young said she
heartily endorsed the movement looking to
the betterment of the poor and suffering.
“I have done this work all my life from
girlhood, I want these sisters to have wis-
dom and faith then refreshings will come
to you sisters and education too. We need
to be humble and faithful and have prayer-
ful hearts. I shall never forget while I
live and it thrills through me yet, when I
saw the Prophet Joseph turn his hand
saying ‘I now turn the key for women,’
and I testify that it has been so. If as
mothers we have obedience we will have
obedient children, those who come here to
lay up stores of knowledge; our mission is a
holy one, by coming to these meetings we
learn to know the Holy Spirit, and if as a
woman our work is well done it will be
just as acceptable as a man’s. No one on
earth respects a woman more than the Holy
Priesthood do, but let us be careful that we
do not take privileges unto ourselves that

[Column 3]
do not belong to us. I have been so care-
ful in this, never to touch what did not be-
long to me any more than I would handle
fire. Mothers look to your children and re-
member that they learn more in nine weeks
before they get here than they do in nine
years afterwards, do not be over anxious
but improve the day and the Lord will bless
Zion’s mothers and daughters.”
	Counselor B. W. Smith said she also
heartily endorsed this movement. “I hope
the sisters will rally to the call and be a ray
of sunshine in the home of the sick, good
nursing will be sought for and I pray God’s
blessing on the class.”
	President Horne said: “Now we have the
authority of Sisters Young and Smith I
would like to hear from the ward presidents
to know how they feel about it.” The
presidents of eighteen city wards and seven
country wards responded, heartily endorsed
the movement and promised aid and sup-
port inthe matter.
	Dr. Roberts said she felt that the sisters
should be called as missionaries be-
cause they wanted to do good. “I believe
the day will come when you will be proud
to wear the cap and apron of the Relief
Society corps of nurses. The course will
take from six to eight months.” Said that
she desired the work to be under the super-
vision of the Stake board of the Relief
Society whom she wished to meet with her
and the sisters chosen.
	It was voted that the presidents should
make their selection of the sisters during
the coming week, and that they meet with
Dr. Roberts and the Stake board of the Re-
lief Society at the Templeton on Saturday,
May 2, at 2 p. m. to organize. Four
students from each ward will be admitted.
The meeting was adjourned, Stake confer-
ence announced to be held in the Assembly
hall June 4, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., sing-
ing “Come let us anew,” and benediction
pronounced by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

Eliza Wakefield Hawkins, daughter of
John and Annabella Park Wakefield, was
born in Fairford, Glocestershire, England,
Feb. 11, 1827. She married Wm. Hawkins
when she was eighteen years of age, re-
moved with him to Australia and remained
there two or three years. She was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in Sidney, Australia, in March,
1856, and started for Utah in 1857, arriving
in Beaver, January 1858.
	Although they had no posterity of their
own their home was never without children,
several orphans being made welcome and
regarding them as parents. These orphans
and their children who are very numerous,
deeply mourn their loss and will ever cher-
ish a loving remembrance of them.
	Sister Hawkins became a member of the
Relief Society when it was first organized
in Beaver, and labored faithfully as a teach-
er. She also filled the position of counselor
to President R. W. Tyler for several years.
She was ready to respond to every call, do-
nating liberally and was ever anxious to re-
lieve suffering being of a sympathetic nature.
	Her spirit took its flight on the 26th of
January, 1898. She had been a great suf-
ferer for a long time, and the summons to
join in the spirit world the companion who
had left her seven years previous, came as a
welcome message to her.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our beloved sister and co-laborer,
Sister E W. Hawkins, has been called from our
midst by the hand of death, and
	Whereas, She was a faithful member and teach-
er in the Relief Society, performing her part
cheerfully as long as her health would permit,
therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a kind-
hearted a[-]d generous member in our Relief Soci-
ety and a noble woman in our community.
	Resolved, That we cherish in our hearts a lov-
ing remembrance of her many virtues and strive
to emulate her good example.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the record of the Relief Society, a
copy given to the bereaved children and one sent
to the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
ALICE M. T. TANNER,
MARY F. WHITE,
Committee.
Beaver City, Utah, 1898.

RESOLUTIONS
	Resolutions of respect passed by the Snowville
Relief Society in memory of their beloved presi-
dent, Sister Mary Goodliffe.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His a wise
providence has seen fit to take from our midst by
the hand of death our beloved president, sister
and co-laborer, Sister Mary R. Goodliffe, be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the Snow-
ville Relief Society extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family of our worthy sister in this hour
of affliction and bereavement.
	Resolved, That we strive to emulate her many
noble deeds and cherish in our hearts that love
for her which she so truly won.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, a copy be in-
serted in the records of the Society and one sent
to the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
ESTHER A. GOODLIFFE, Sec.

SARAH A. SHEFFIELD.
	Sister Sarah A. Sheffield, daughter of Samuel
and Mary Willmer was born at Olney, Bucking-
hamshire, England, Jan. 12, 1831, joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
year 1848, and two years later was married to
James Sheffield. In 1873 they emigrated to Utah
and located in Brigham City where they resided
for eight years, they then moved to Salt Lake
City remaining there for two years and in 1884
moved to Kaysville where she resided until the
time of her death, having died March 12, 1898.
She leaves a husband and six children and a
host of loving friends to mourn her loss. She
was a faithful Latter-day Saint and for a number
of years was treasurer of the Relief Society of this
place, which office she held at the time of her
death.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
His alwise providence to take from our midst by
the hand of death our beloved sister, Sarah A
Sheffield, be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the Relief
Society of Kaysville extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family in this sad hour of
trial.
	Resolved that we strive to emulate her many
noble deeds and cherish in our hearts that love
for her which she so truly won.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, one be placed
upon the record of the Relief Society and one
sent to the “Exponent” for publication.
RACHEL MANSELL, Sec.


[Column 1]
R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

TWENTY-FIRST WARD R. S.
	The directors met and the following sis-
ters were unanimously elected and set apart
by Bishop M. S. Woolley and Counselors
H. J. Foulger and Jos. Maxwell, in the
positions named below: Eliza Barton as
president by Bishop M. S. Woolley; Martha
B. Taylor as first vice-president by Counsel-
or H. J. Foulger; Frances L. Castleton as
second vice-president by Counselor Jos
Maxwell; Mary A. Tuddenham as secre
tary by Bishop M. S. Woolley; Helen B

[Column 2]
Lyon as treasurer by Counselor H. J.
Foulger. On motion of Sister Castleton
Sister Eliza Barton was sustained as execu-
tive committee, to transact all necessary
business between stated meetings.
H. J. FOULGER, Sec. pro tem.

WEBER STAKE
	The minutes of the Relief Society confer-
ence held in the 3rd ward of Ogden City,
March 10, 1898. At the morning session
those present on the stand were President
Jane S. Richards and her counselors, Sister
Harriet Brown and Sister Emily Shurtliff
President Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Lightner and Sister Emily S. Richards of
Salt Lake City.
	Sister Richards was pleased to see so
many here this morning and desired that we
might be blessed and put into practice the
good things that we hear.
	Remarks were made by Counselors Har-
riet Brown and Emily Shurtliff.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the
meeting, said when she looked over the
congregation and saw before her faces that
had gone through trials and hardships in
days gone by, she felt that the sisters had
met to be fed spiritual food, and that the
Lord gave us lessons of experience that we
might gain spiritual strength; spoke of the
time when the Saints were on the move and
of the sickness that was among them, and
how the healing power was given to the
Prophet Joseph. She wanted the mothers to
teach the daughters purity and love and the
principles of the Gospel of Christ
	Sister Emily S. Richards was the next
speaker and said she felt very happy to meet
with the sisters, was almost too full to ex-
press her feelings. She knew that the Lord
loved His people but felt we were rather
slothful in our duties; spoke to the mothers
about reading to their children that their
little minds might be filled with good things.
	Sister Lightner said she knew we had been
blest by the instruction given this morning
and felt we should be thankful to our Heaven-
ly Father for every blessing we enjoy, we
have received the Gospel and should strive
with all our hearts to do our duty that we
may have unity of soul and partake of all its
blessings, prayed that the Lord would
strengthen us today.
	Elder Nathan Tanner spoke to the sisters
and gave them some good counsel, advised
them to call upon the Lord for His healing
power.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing
“We thank Thee O, God for a prophet.”
Roll was called, twenty-one presidents were
present. Among the speakers were Sisters
Hunter, Dance, Newman, West, Monch and
Driver.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke on our sacred
prayers, visiting the sick and suffering to
comfort them, hoped to see the day when
the sisters would have a house dedicated to
the Lord for the sisters to meet in, spoke of
the Savior and what He suffered for us, ad-
vised the sisters to pay their tithing and
never neglect to watch and instruct their
daughters, said we were all in a school and
our Heavenly Father was the teacher, asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Elder George Larkin was the next
speaker, said he was struck by a remark of
Sister Young’s, that we should listen to the
promptings of the Holy Spirit that we might
have power over our children, encouraged
the sisters to be faithful to the cause of truth.
	President Jane S. Richards felt the day

[Column 3]
was too short but realized we could have
good reflections when night came, and asked
the Lord to bless all the sisters with the
spirit of the Gospel.
	The officers of the Relief Society were pre-
sented and sustained and conference adjourn-
ed for three months by singing the Doxology
C. E. DRIVER. Asst. Sec.

WEST BRANCH PRIMARY.
	According to request I send you the min-
utes of a meeting held in the Scandinavian
meeting house on May 4, 1898, for the pur-
pose of organizing a branch Primary Asso-
ciation to be known as the West Branch
Primary Association of South Cottonwood.
Present on the stand were Brothers Thomas
Wheeler and John Labrun of the bishopric,
also Brothers Charles Holm and D. B.
Jones, Sisters Camilla C. Cobb and Mary
L. Morris of the Primary Association of
the Salt Lake Stake presidency, also Sisters
S. A. Brown, M. Carruth and Labrun,
Sister S. A. Brown presiding. Singing
“Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Brother T. L. Wheeler. Singing “Come
all ye sons of Zion.” Sister Elizabeth H.
Lyon, was then chosen to act as secre-
tary.
	Brother T. L. Wheeler was then called
upon to make a few opening remarks which
were very timely and instructing. He
was followed by Brother John Labrun who
gave very good instruction to parents and
officers who would be called to preside.
Brother C. Holm was the next speaker.
He said for one that he realized the neces-
sity of a branch of the Primary Association
in the west part of South Cottonwood
ward.
	Brother B. Jones was the next
speaker. He said we had several branch
organizations, and was pleased to see a
branch of the Primary Association organ-
ized as our ward was much loo large. He
was united with the previous speaker.
	Sister Camilla Cobb was the next speaker.
She spoke very encouragingly and urged
the sisters to be united and realize the im-
portance of training the children. Said to
be prayerful and humble and requested the-
sisters to unite in faith that the right sisters
might be chosen to preside in this Associa-
tion.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt that the move
being made was one in the right direction
and gave much wise counsel.
	The name of Sister Mary E. Gilbert was
then presented by Sister Camilla Cobb as
president of the new Primary. The privi-
lege was then given to Sister Gilbert to
choose her own counselors by Brother
Wheeler. The choice fell upon Sister
Sarah Ella Jones for first counselor and Sis-
ter Antoinette Stromness for second. Pre-
vious to the choice of counselors the
name of Sister Elizabeth H. Lyon was pre-
sented by Sister Cobb as secretary for the
West Branch. The above sisters were
voted in.
	Sister Cobb urged the officers to be
prompt in their attendance at meetings and
to take a lively interest in the same, for
there was no greater work in the Church of
Jesus Christ than teaching the little ones.
Said it was work that would pay and prayed
the Lord to bless the efforts of the sisters in
charge.
	Sister Mary E. Gilbert expressed her will-
ingness to act as president of the West
Branch Primary and by the help of the
Lord to do her very best.


The above named sisters were then set
apart to their respective offices. President
Mary E. Gilbert announced that meetings
would be held Tuesday afternoons at four
o’clock. The South Cottonwood Primary
presented the West Branch with one dozen
Primary hymn books, note book and pen-
cil, for which a vote of thanks was given.
The books were handed in by Sister Sarah
A. Brown. The name of Sister Mary H.
Berg was presented as assistant secretary by
sister C. Cobb, and the vote was carried.
	Meeting adjourned until Tuesday, May
10. Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Brother John Labrun.
ELIZABETH H. LYON, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR PROPHET.

	Will you allow me to tell you that you
are not acquainted with Mormonism until
you learn who our prophet is, and what
the errand was which he brought to this
world? You will remember that John the
Baptist came to prepare the way for our
Savior when he came the first time, teach-
ing them to repent for the kingdom of
heaven was at hand. He also said they
should bring forth fruits meet for repen-
tance, for according to the old proverb:
“Actions speak louder than words,” and
show your sincerity.
	Then came the publicans to be baptized,
saying “Master what shall we do?” Luke
3rd chapter, 12th verse. He said, “Exact
no more than that which is appointed you.”
And the soldiers asked him, saying “And
what shall we do?” and he answered, “Do
violence to no man, neither accuse any false-
ly; and be content with your wages.”
Thus teaching them to “deal justly, love
mercy and walk humbly.” These being the
prominent features of our lesson which
Jesus taught to bring peace on earth and
good will to humanity.
	Now we learn in Acts, 1st chapter 9th,
10th, 11th verses, that “A cloud received
Him out of their sight, and two men in
white apparel stood by who said, ‘Why
stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same
Jesus which is taken up from you, shall so
come in like manner as ye have seen Him
go up into heaven.’ ”
	We also have the testimony of those
apostles with whom he was speaking, and
telling them of the comforter, the Holy
Ghost, he would send to them. Can we
doubt their words? Oh no! we know he
will come in like manner as they saw him
go up; and we also know that our prophet
Joseph Smith has come to prepare his way
before him again, and the message he
brings is an important one I can assure you.
	He tells us the same that we read in
Holy Writ, that our Savior will bring a
company with him at the time of his
second advent, and must find a people of
the same character as those who come with
him. Yes they must be purified and sanc-
tified by the same laws that his disciples
were, and all those who love and obey his
laws will rejoice and arise to meet them and
welcome them in joy and rejoicing, to be-
hold his face and hear his voice.
	This people St. Peter tells us must be
pure, for God is pure; they must be holy,
for he is holy. They must worship him in
spirit and in truth, for he seeketh such to
worship him.
	Now I would ask do not you think it
necessary for a prophet to come to prepare
such a people for this, great event? Do


you think such a people could be found in
these last days without a teacher? Food
for thought.
ZION’S CONVERT.


LITERARY CLUB ELECTION.

	The Last meeting for 1897-98 of the
Ladies’ Literary club was held on Friday.
It was a business session only, and the
principal event of interest was the annual
election of officers. All retiring officers
made reports on the season’s work. The
election resulted in the following
roster: Mrs. Eugene Lewis president; Mrs.
William Ingleheart, first vice-president,
Mrs. L. E. Hall, second vice-president;
Mrs. Clara Colton, recording secretary; Mrs.
G. R. Hancock, corresponding secretary;
Mrs. E. B. Critchlow, treasurer; Miss Ethel
Paul, critic; Mrs. J. C. Royle, historian;
Mrs. S. F. Fenton, librarian; Miss. Emma
McCornick, Mrs. T. G. Webber, Mrs, H.
W. Brown, directors for one year; Mrs. W.
A. Nelden, Mrs. F. A. Vincent, Mrs. R.
C. Woodruff, directors for two years.
	The section chairmen had been previous-
ly named. Some changes in the sections
have been made, the art section being dis-
continued and two new ones created,
music and French. The sections with their
chairmen are: History, Mrs: J. H. Brown;
tourist, Mrs. R. C. Woodruff; Shakespeare,
Mrs. John Caine; home and educational,
Mrs. G. F, Stiehl; current events and litera-
ture, Mrs. S. W. Morris; music, Mrs. W.
A. Nelden; French, Mrs. Eugene Lewis.


THE WOMEN’S MEETING IN DENVER
SPECIAL EXCURSION.
	The women who intend going to Denver
for the Federation meeting should by all
means use the Rio Grande Western Rail-
way. This line in addition to being a home
institution with headquarters, shops, etc.,
in Salt Lake City, presents countless at-
tractions in the way of scenery, train
service, etc. A delightful trip can be ar-
ranged without additional coat by using the
Rio Grande Western in connection with
either the standard gauge lines of the
Colorado Midland or Denver & Rio
Grande R. R. via Glenwood, Leadville, the
Royal Gorge or Manitou in one direction
and the narrow gauge line of the D. & R.
G. by way of the Marshall Pass and the
Black Canon in the other. The round trip
rate via any combination of the three dis-
tinct scenic routes of the R. G. W. Ry. has
been fixed at $20.00. Tickets on sale June
19th and 20th. It is expected a large num-
ber of the eastern women in attendance at
the meeting will take advantage of an ex-
cursion to Ogden and Salt Lake City via the
Rio Grande Western.


CLARA BARTON contributes to the North
American Review an account of her relief
work in Cuba.
	THE Outlook has secured the services of
Mr. George Ken[-]an, vice-president of the
American Red Cross, as a member of its
staff duri[-]g the war.
	MRS. ELLEN SPENCER MUSSEY of Wash-
ington is the attorney for the National Red
Cross, of which Miss Clara Barton is presi-
dent.


Save Your Money!
And when you get a do[-]lar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WlLFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob.
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study.
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personally or by
letter with
ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D
75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

