W. Tyler, printed in Vol. 25, No. 22 of the
Woman’s Exponent were read by Sister
L. W. Jones and adopted by the Stake
Relief Society.
	Sister Alice M. T. Tanner urged the
sisters to sustain the EXPONENT. Presi-
dent C. D. White spoke very emphatically
in regard to sustaining the EXPONENT,
also spoke highly in regard to Sister Soren-
son’s labor. “We need such instructions.
The sisters have been unanimous in select-
ing Sister Cedaressa C. Shepherd for presi-
dent and we are well pleased with the
choice.” She was sustained and set apart,
but being surprised, was unprepared to
select counselors. Alice M. T. Tanner as
secretary and Emily C. Olsen as treasurer

[Column 3]
were set apart for those offices. President
Shepherd made few closing remarks and
conference adjourned for three months. 
Singing “May the grace of Christ our
Savior.” Benediction by Bishop George
Mumford.
		ALICE M. T. TANNER, Sec.
	P. S. Sister Shepherd having selected
her counselors they were set apart at the
Beaver Stake quarterly conference, Sunday 
Sep. 19, 1897, as follows: First counselor,
Mary A. White; second counselor, Harriet
E. Fotheringham.
MEADOW PRIMARY.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	WE thought perhaps you would like to
hear from the Meadow Primary Association
which was reorganized August 9th, 1892,
with Martha B. Adams president; Isabella
Stott first and Elizabeth B. Bennett second
counselors; Alice J. Duncan secretary, and
Mary H. Adams assistant secretary. There
are about one hundred names enrolled; it is
mostly kept up by the smaller children.
	We hold meetings every Friday after-
noon. The Primary is averagely attended.
We had a Primary entertainment Wednes-
day evening, August 11, for the purpose of
obtaining means to help publish a book
written by Aurelia Spencer Rogers. The
program was as follows: Singing by the
Primary choir entitled “The Primary pray-
er song.” Prayer by Counselor N. M.
Stewart. Singing “Joseph Smith’s first
prayer.” An opening speech by Elizabeth
B. Bennett. Articles of Faith. Song by
Amy and Ethel Bushnell, “I’m not too
young for God to see.” Sentiments by
Lilas Adams, Myrtle Stewart and Ornald
Beckstrand. Music by Mandolin and 
Guitar Club, which played between the
other parts being taken. Bible questions
and answers. Recitation by Amy Stott,
“Angel Guides.” A Swedish song by
Sigred and Emma Pearson. Acrostic reci- 
tation by twenty little girls. A recitation
entitled “John Taylor” by ten little boys.
The Primary Throng by twelve girls. A
cane drill by twenty-five boys. Singing
“Merry, merry children sweetly sing.”
Prayer by H. G. Labrum Sen. The
admission was five cents each for both
young and old. The entertainment was
well attended, the proceeds were $6.75.
Six of the young ladies of Meadow assisted
us in getting up the program.
			ALICE J. DUNCAN. Sec’y.
SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of Primary conference of the
Salt Lake Stake held Sep. 25, 1897, at the
Assembly Hall, President Camilla C. Cobb
presiding. On the stand with her were
her counselors, Lydia A. Wells and Mary
L. Morris, President. Zina D. H. Young
and others. Meeting opened by singing
“Gladly Meeting.” Prayer by Sister Emily
Hollings. Singing “Little children love
the Savior.’’ Roll called with thirty-one
associations repreaented, the children re-
sponding with sentiments. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke to
the children for a short time. She said she
felt to welcome them to the meeting, it
filled her heart with joy to see them. Re-
lated a story about Joseph Smith hearing
some children praying for him when he was
in danger. He said he knew the Lord


would hear their prayers and his life would
be preserved. She told the children
to never forget their prayers and God would
bless them. She said she had been a
Latter-day Saint for sixty-one years, and
thanked her Heavenly Father for preserv-
ing her life to the present time.
	Clarence Openshaw, from the 16th Ward
gave a recitation. A motion song was
rendered by a number of little girls from
the 11th Ward. Frank Buckwater from
the 3rd ward gave a sketch from the Book
of Mormon. “Hail to the Prophet” was
sung by all the children. A sketch of
early pioneer life in Utah was given by
Ida Peck of Cannon ward. Song by Annie
Peterson of the 12th Ward. Recitation by
Ethel Snow from Draper. Song by Lizzie
Stringfellow from the same place. A drill
was very nicely rendered by ten little girls
from the 15th Ward, west branch associa-
tion. Recitation by Chloe Brown, from
East Draper. One of Eliza R. Snow’s
poems was recited by May Alder, from the
2nd Ward. Myrtle Bagley from the 10th
Ward gave a recitation. Duett by Della
Seddon and Luella Harold from the 5th
Ward.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder expressed her
pleasure in listening to the exercises, and to
see how beautifully the children were
being trained, and said it was a blessed work
to be engaged in. The children would
always remember their Primary teachers.
Announced that the 2nd Ward would have
a Fair during the week and invited all to
visit it.
	Sister Lula G. Richards of the General
board, spoke in regard to Sister Roger’s
book, said she was the founder of the
Primary and hoped they would assist in
publishing her book.
	President Cobb made some closing re-
marks. After singing “In our lovely
Deseret,” benediction was pronounced by
Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.  
					E. W. HYDE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	TWENTY-FIVE Bulgarian women are
studying medicine at the Faculty of Nancy
in France. 
	“WHEN the Women’s College in Luck-
now is finished, it will be the finest educa-
tional building in India.”
	THE campaign in South Dakota was be-
gun in October, with a series of two-day
county conventions, under the auspices of
the National Organization Committee, to be
held in the most important counties.
	MRS. ANNIE M. MACLEAN, a graduate,
of Acadia University, Nova Scotia, took
the degree of Master of Philosophy at the
University of Chicago in July. Miss Mc-
Lean is the first Canadian woman to take a
higher degree from this university. Her
thesis was on ‘‘Factory Legislation for Wo-
men in the United States.”
	A MEDALLION of Miss Anthony, prepared
by the Rochester Club, is nine inches in
diameter, made of delicately-tinted plaster.
The reproduction is excellent, the feature's
clear and accurate, and the medallion an
ornament that would adorn any home.
They may be obtained for $1.50, express
paid, of Mrs. F. N. West, 9 Averil-Place,
Rochester, N. Y.


THE sudden death of Mary Kyle Dallas
of New York, about three weeks ago, was a
shock and a sorrow to a host of friends and
admirers. For many years she was a con-
tributor to the New York Ledger at a large
salary, and also wrote short stories for
Lippincott. Latterly her work has been 
seen in the daily papers, and her essays on
women for the American Press Association
commanded wide attention. Mrs. Dallas
was a member of Sorosis, the vice-presi-
dent of the Woman’s Press Club, and a
prominent member of the “Hidden Hand
Club,” whose purpose is to expose the fake
advertisements which prove a snare and a
delusion to unsuspecting women. Mrs.
Dallas was tall with a beautiful, aristocratic
face and stately bearing, while her manners
were so gracious and her acts so kindly that
she endeared herself to all who knew her.
She was fifty years of age, and began to
write at the age of eight, when she com-
posed a play that was produced in her
father’s kitchen. In 1888 she estimated
that she had written and sold at least eight
thousand stories and as many sketches.


UTAH CHARITY KINDERGARTEN.

	THE entertainment to be given at the
Theatre tonight, Oct. 15, is to be one of
the most unique affairs ever given by the
children of this city. Miss May Earle has
been indefatigable in her labor to make it
a success, and Mrs. H. S. Young the presi-
dent of-the association, and her co-workers
have worked incessantly to secure every
possible advantage to make it telling and
effective. Mrs. Kate Bridewell Anderson
has rendered valuable assistance, and the
little people who are to appear in the oper-
ratta (The Rebellion of the Daisies) have ex-
quisite costumes. The parents of the Child-
ren who are taking part have spared no
pains, trouble or expense to aid in this
charitable enterprise. If the generous pub-
lic will manifest their interest in this philan-
thropic movement to educate the little ones
by patronizing the entertainment on the two
occasions, tonight and Saturday Matinee,
they will be more than repaid in seeing this
new and novel opera. Prof. H. S. God-
dard has kindly consented to apppar for
sweet charity’s sake.


MISS LOMBROSO, the daughter of the
Italian professor has written a volume, the
title of which is “On the Happiness of
Women.”
	THE annual business meeting of the
U. F. W. C. will be held in the parlors of
the Congregational Church, Saturday morn-
ing October 23, at ten o’clock. Election of
officers, amendments to the constitution and
other matters of business will be transacted.


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes.
	Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Mrs Kate Bridewell Anderson,
	Formerly of New Orleans, and re-
cently of Ogden, has opened a vocal
Studio in Unity Hall, 28 W. Third 
South. Operatic repertoire a special-
ty. Hours from 10 until 2 p.m, ex-
cept Wednesdays and Saturdays.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S SCHOOL.
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ities for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address		ELLIS R. SHIPP.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORAL LINE

[to the right of the logo]
The
People’s
Favorite

Trains leave and arrive Salt L[-]ke City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicago,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City			7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mall,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver							6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City				3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mall,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent. 

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.
		   
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1897.	NOS 11--12.


CONTENTS:
	The Queen’s Thanks to Her People. Dr. Bar-
ney’s Travels in Colorado—Dr. Elvira S. Barney
W. H. P. S.—Julia S. Woolley, Sec. Program of
Woman’s Congress. Reflections of a Pioneer—
Zion’s Convert Notes and News. Relief Soci-
ety Conference—E. B. Wells. R. S. Reports. In
Memoriam. Prenatal Influence—Ida Lowry Allen.
	EDITORIAL:—The Late Election. Editorial
Notes
	POETRY:—A Nocturne to Rubinstein—Helen
Gray Cone. Two Kinds of People—Ella Wheeler
Wilcox. Birthday Anniversary—Nellie.


[Column 1]
A NOCTURNE OF RUBINSTEIN.
SELECTED.
I.
WHAT now remains, what now remains but night?
Night hopeless, since the moon is in her grave!
	Late came a glorious light
In one wide flood on spire and field and wave.
	It found a flowing way
To secret places where the dead leaves lay;
	It won the half-hid stream
To shy remembrance of her morning gleam; 
	Then on the sky’s sharp shore
Rolled back, a fading tide, and was no more.
No more on spire and ivied window bright!
	No more on field and wave! 
What now remains, what now remains but night? 
Night hopeless, since the moon is in her grave!

II.
	Dumb waits the dim, broad land,
Like one who hears, yet cannot understand,
	Tidings of grief to come.
The woods and waters, with the winds, are dumb,
	But now a breeze has found
Sorrowful voice, and sobs along the ground:
“Oh the lost light, the last, the best lost light!
	No more on field and wave!”
What now remains, what now remains but night
Night hopeless, since the moon is in her grave!

III.
	Hark, how the wind outswells,
Tempting the woods dark heart till he rebels,
	And shaking his black hair,
Lifts up a cry of passion and despair!
	The groaning branches chafe
Till scarce the small, hushed singing-birds are safe,
	Tossed rocking in the nest,
Like gentle memories in a stormy breast.
A shudder, as good angels passed in flight,
	Trills over field and wave!
What now remains what now remains but night?
Night hopeless, since the moon is in her grave.

IV.
	There falls a mighty hush:
And forth from far recesses fern-scents rush,
	Faint as a waft from years
Long past; they touch in heaven the springs of
	tears.
	In great drops slow and warm,
Breaks all at once the spirit of the storm.
What now remains what now remains but night?
Night grieving, while the moon is in her grave!

V.
Behold! the rain is over: on the wave

[Column 2]
	A new, a flashing light!
	Lo, she arises calm.
The pale, the patient moon, and pours like balm
	Through the wet wood’s wrecked aisle
Her own unutterably tender smile!

There is no calm like that when storm is done;
There is no pleasure keen as pains release;
There is no joy that lies so deep as peace,
No peace so deep as that by struggle won.

Naught now remains, naught now remains but
	night―
Night peaceful, with the moon on field and wave!
				HELEN GRAY CONE.


THE QUEEN’S THANKS TO HER
PEOPLE.

	Her Majesty addressed to her people all
over the world, through the medium of
the Home Secretary, the following expres-
sion of personal gratitude for the sponta-
neous manifestation of loyalty and affection
that marked her progress on June 22, and
which have come to her from all parts of
the world on this great occasion:—
	WINDSOR CASTLE, July 15, 1897.
	“I have frequently expressed my person-
al feelings to my people, and though on
this memorable occasion there have been
many official expressions of my deep sense
of the unbounded loyalty evinced, I cannot
rest satisfied without personally giving
utterance to these sentiments.
	“It is difficult for me on this occasion to
say how truly touched and grateful I am
for the spontaneous outburst of loyal attach-
ment and real affection which I have exper-
enced on the completion of the Sixtieth
year of my Reign.
	“During my progress through London
on June 22, this great enthusiasm was
shown in the most striking manner, and
can never be effaced from my heart.
	"It is indeed deeply gratifying, after so
many years of labor and anxiety for the
good of my beloved country, to find that
my exertions have been appreciated
throughout my vast Empire.
	“In weal and woe I have ever had the
true sympathy of all my people, which has
been warmly reciprocated by myself.
	“It has given me unbounded pleasure to
see so many of my subjects from all parts
of the world assembled here, and to find
them joining in the acclamations of loyal
devotion to myself, and I would wish to
thank them all from the depth of my grate-
ful heart.
	“I shall ever pray God to bless them and
to enable me still to discharge my duties for
their welfare as long as life lasts.
	“VICTORIA, R. I.”
—Englishwoman’s Review.


NOT only are women taking an increas-
ingly active interest in municipal matters,
but their activity is almost all in favor of
better conditions and greater cleanliness,
literal and metaphorical.		A. S. B.


DR. BARNEY’S TRAVELS IN
COLORADO.

	WEDNESDAY, July 28, early in the fore-
noon I left Salt Lake City in company with
my brother, Carlos Stevens, and nephew,
Walter C. Howell, we arrived Thursday 29
at Hooper, Colorado, after riding five and a
half miles by team, came to the residence of
the family of Mrs. Brown, my niece, after
a happy greeting retired to rest for the
night.
	The few following days were fully occu-
pied in considering the many unwritten
chapters of our lives and in anticipation of
some of the coming events, and in viewing
of the large fields of 160 to 320 acres now
being harvested, mostly of oats and wheat
six and eight feet high, yielding from
twenty-five to forty bushels per acre. This
valley I visited two years ago, and the re-
sult of that visit has brought a very happy-
fying reflection, even to the probability of
others of my kindred immigrating. August
7, left in company with my brother and
after traveling thirty miles to Monte Vista,
Rio Grande Co., staid over night with my
nephew, B. F. Stevens. Then after a long
day ’s travel over a very stony ridge of about
thirty miles, arrived at Richmond, haying
passed Lajara (pronounced Lahara, a small
town situated on the railroad) here we were
kindly entertained over night by Bishop
Coombs. The rough road necessitated our
having a couple of shoes put on our horse
which the Bishop did himself. Then after
traveling six miles further arrived at Man-
assa, stopping at President Alma R. Smith’s
(son of Silas) found Apostle John W.
Taylor seated in council with a company of
Elders who were reporting their visits and
receiving additional daily appointments he
took me by the arm and introduced the to
them as one of the best sisters in the Church.
I felt a little out of place with the prefix,
but like many other agreeable things it was
easily passed by, but this was supplement-
ed with a note signed by John W. Taylor
after arriving at Sister Haskell’s while eat-
ing dinner, that he wanted me to meet
promptly at 5:30 that day, Monday 9, as he
wanted to give me a mission. I replied, all
right, and at the stated time I was seated
with six other sisters of the place and
Elders, we received our appointments and
went to work. Having lost my notes I
shall have to depend upon my memory as
to dates and other matters. 
	Tues. 10, the Bishop gave a dinner to the
visiting sisters and Elders. Wednesday eve.
9th a company of carriages drove six miles
to Mountain View to a school house that
stood as a lone sentinel on the surrounding
plain. We were about the first to arrive,
at rather a late hour the house was filled
with all grades from grandfather to babe.
The speakers were in the following order:
Brothers Graham and Mann, myself, Sister
Haskell and John W. Taylor. We then
returned to Manassa at 12, midnight. 
	Thursday 12, did some visiting as per ap-
pointment. Then we, including seven car-
riages full, drove 20 miles to East Dale.
Held a meeting in the evening, perfect


[Column 1]
freedom prevailed. The speakers were 
Prof. Brimhall of Provo B. Y. Academy,
then Brother Taylor suggested that the
meeting be turned into a testimony meet-
ing. None responding I then felt to speak,
was blessed with a free flow of speech and
testimony. Then John W. Taylor address-
ed the Saints upon a variety of subjects,
and gave much good counsel pertaining to
the little Colony which was laboring under
difficulties and had succeeded in getting a
fine reservoir, but their surroundings were
yet quite rude with few comforts, while en-
deavoring to do the most important thing
first, viz., to bring under cultivation their
farming lands.
After the meeting had dismissed the com-
pany was still entertained by our quartett
and our Professor of the violin in a very
pleasing manner, a few songs and recita-
tions brought us to a late hour of the night.
The very cool mountain breeze gave ns,
through the chinkings of the house,
refreshing sleep. Winter clothing and bed-
ding seemed to be in demand in the middle
of August.
Friday 13,at 7 o’clock,I witnessed for the
first time the solemn and heavenly cere-
monies of the dedication of the ground for
the erection of a house of worship; with
prayer, singing and speeches, the company
forming a circle of less than one hundred in
number.
We then visited a house that ex-
hibited some nice specimens of pottery. The
lady seemed happy in making presents of
these specimens to some of the visiting
ladies. We then, on our way home, drove
upon the rim of the reservoir which showed
us the immense labor that had been done.
After another twenty miles ride we arrived
at Manassa very tired. After dinner we
again hitched up and drove ten miles to
Antonita, to fill an appointment in a large
new hall that had been freely given for a
meeting. It was filled to overflowing, even 
to the porch, sidewalks and standing on dry
goods boxes in the street. I here listened
to the most interesting and powerful ser-
mon I ever heard, the speakers were Prof.
Brimhall and John W. Taylor. They
divided their subjects and interspersed them
with songs of Zion by the Quartette, and
solos by Prof. White on the violin. The
meeting was a grand success. Sister Has-
kell and I were invited to stay all night but
returned to Manassa, arriving at 12,
midnight.
Saturday 14, drove to Sanford seven
miles, held a council meeting and did some
more visiting. Some of the brethren walk-
ed many miles. I staid all night with the
Bishop’s people, we were treated with every
attention that was in the people’s power
wherever we went.
Sunday 15, attended a conference both
fore and afternoon. The missionaries,
Elders Graham, the two Brothers Mann,
Grant, Ensign, White, Pres. Albert R.
Smith and John W. Taylor addressed the
Saints of several hundred, both fore and
afternoon. The spirit of the Lord was
wonderfully and powerfully poured out up-
on the young men, which must have added
great testimony of the power of God to
some of the weak as well as the strong. To
me it seemed as a “pentacostal” shower.
Their remarks were enriched by the
singing of the Quartette and music by the
Prof, of the violin the music was composed
by some of the Elders. Between meet-
ngs the brethren were required to fast and

[Column2]
hold a Priesthood meeting. In the inter-
im the brethren and sisters were either out
riding or walking, or filling their appoint-
ed visits to families or isolated individuals.
The most of our company returned to 
Manassa.
Monday, August 16, the most of our
group took dinner at Sister Haskell’s. At
1 o’clock several hundred people had ar-
rived by the running stream, and listened
to remarks by the Elders, after which
Apostle John W. Taylor went into the
water and baptized forty-seven souls, a few
of them were re-baptisms and two were for
their health. It seemed to me the most
solemn and impressive services I ever ex-
perienced. I thought of Jesus being bap-
tized in the Jordan by John, which after
was followed by His crucifixion, and of the
approach of His second coming in the near
future; and I questioned who will be pre-
pared for His coming ?
Tuesday 17, we took dinner in company
with a few at Brother Harrison’s. Here
Elder Taylor told me not to be in a hurry,
and he thought I ought to spend the rest of
my life among the people in a spiritual
capacity, and that I had done a good work
there; but here I must stop, as I presume
his encomiums were more interesting to me
than they can possibly be to others. Brother
Taylor is very kind and unassuming with
his colaborers, but when officiating in his
office as a servant of God his words are ac-
companied with great power, and his testi-
mony seems to bring conviction to every
honest heart. Here I bade them good bye
and hurried on six miles to Sanford to fill
an appointment at 3 o’clock. As I arrived
the sisters were already assembled in the
hall, the seats were pretty well filled, they
numbered about ninety. The time occu-
pied by myself was about 12 hours, per-
fect order prevailed, and the spirit of peace,
harmony and rest was such that the many
babes were lulled to sleep, to the admira-
tion of all. A prophecy was made and ful-
filled before we left the house. The spirit
that seemed to prevail prompted a variety
of topics, then after the close of the meeting
the hearers gathered in front for additional
instruction and blessings, after which we
went home to comfort some of the sick in
their houses, after which I returned too
late for the evening meeting and retired
for the night at the Bishop’s.
Wednesday 18, about 4:30 o’clock I left
Sanford in company with Brother Peterson,
wife and child for Hooper, which lies al-
most due north forty-six miles, arriving
five and a half miles northwest of Hooper
station about 8 o’clock, passing on the way
the town of Alamosa. 
Your sister in the Covenant,
DR. ELVIRA S. BARNEY.


WOMANS EXPONENT


MRS. CYNTHIA WESTOVER ALDEN is
now editor of the woman’s department of
the New York Tribune, which is given an
entire page every day with three on Sun-
day, and employs a full staff of reporters,
artists and writers on special subjects, all of
them women.

	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY attended the
celebration of the one hundredth birthday
anniversary of the lamented Samuel J. May
by the equal suffragists in Syracuse, N. Y.,
on Oct. 21, and started the same evening
for the meeting of the National Woman’s
Council at Nashville, Tenn.		—Ex.


W. H. P. S. 

	THE Woman’s Hygienic Physiological
Society met in the 14th Ward meeting
house Oct. 7, 1897. There was a good at-
tendance and the workers were very much
encouraged by the presence and remarks of
the brethren. President Angus M. Cannon,
President David Cannon, Bishop Keeler of
Provo, Brother Lucius Snow of Brigham
City, and many others were present. Each
of these brethren expressed themselves as
being pleased with the subjects treated,
they knew it would increase as it was truth.
	Sister Sorensen briefly explained the
work; she said the raising of children was
the most important part of her teaching,
that a woman must understand what is re-
quired of her as a mother, how to care for 
her body that she may bear the healthiest
and noblest of God’s children
	Sister Kirkham of Provo, treated the sub-
ject of “Child Training,” and said we must
be particular in the language we use to a
child and treat them as we wish to be
treated.
	Sister Salzner spoke of the necessity of
girls being prepared for marriage. Sister
Pine described a woman as a nurse in her
own home, what her qualifications should
be etc. Sister Eva Merril of Lehi read a
paper on “Round Dancing.” She said
we ought to obey the authorities of the
Church and not allow impure or immoral
men to be so familiarly associated with us,
such as are often met in the ball room.
Sister Allen prepared and read an essay on
“Prenatal Influence.”
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Asst. Sec.


PROGRAM OF WOMAN’S CONGRESS.

	THE Program for the 25th Congress of
the Association for the Advancement of
Women, to be held at Springfield, Mass.,
Nov. 1, 2 and 3, is as follows:
	“Reminiscences of A. A. W.,” Julia
Ward Howe.
	“Changing Social Problems,” Antoin-
ette B. Blackwell.
	"Avenues opened for Women in the last
Quarter Century,” Mary F. Eastman.
	“The Brain and the Hand,” Clara B.
Colby.
	“English Queens; Their Influence on
British Civilization," Mary Newbury Adams.
	“Child Study,” Frances Stuart Parker.
	“The Social Philosophy of Dante,” Ellen
M. Mitchell.
	“Influence of Women in Politics,” An-
toinette B. Kinney.
	“Mental Hygiene," Mary A. G. Dight,
M. D.
	Japanese Women,” Mabel Loomis Todd.
	“Red Cross Relief for Cuba,” J. Ellen
Foster, Advocate General of the Red Cross
Relief.
	Symposium: “New Departure in Philan-
thropy.”
	Symposium: “What Evidence or Hope
have we of Higher Moral Relations between
Nations?”


VEAL LOAF.
	Three and one half pounds of minced
veal (the leg is the best for this purpose)
three eggs well beaten, salt and pepper to
taste, four rolled crackers, butter the size
of an egg. Mix these together and, make
into a loaf, roast and baste like other
meat one hour.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TWO KINDS OF PEOPLE

	No, the two kinds of people on earth I mean,
Are the people who lift, and the people who lean. 

Wherever you go, you will find the world’s
	masses,
Are always divided in just these two classes.

And oddly enough, you will find, too, I ween,
There is only one lifter to twenty who lean.

In which class are you? Are you easing the load?
Of overtaxed lifters who toil down the road?

Or are you a leaner, who lets others bear
Your portion of labor and worry and care?
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
		SISTER ELIZABETH BROWER.

DEAR friend you say you are growing old,
	That today completes three score four years; 
Dost grieve? Nay rejoice, each milestone passed
	Counts thee one less in this vale of tears.

Has Time, with his hoary fingers, wrought
	Silvery threads ’mong thy darker hair,
Traced light'y faint lines, which year by year
	Will deepen to furrows, and dost thou care ?

Time laughs and mocks us at every change,
	From youth’s sweet spring e’en to wintry age,
Faded cheeks, dimmed vision, the stiffened limb;
	And kindred ills that fill up life’s page.

Let him laugh and enjoy his frolics,
	Shall not we at the end of life’s race,
Throw off this marred outer covering, when
	Lo, a soul which he cannot deface.

This immortal soul will never grow old,
	Age adds lustre instead of decay,
Our bodies of dust to dust return,
	Our spirits live and progress for aye.

Soon this school we call life will be o’er.
	All its sorrows and burdens laid down.
Our education on earth complete,
	And life’s cross exchanged for a crown.

And though our lessons today seem hard,
	Only by work can we reach the goal,
Only those who are tried come forth as gold,
	'Tis suff'ring that sanctifies the soul.

The uncut stone is of little worth,
	Tempered with care is the choicest steel;
So our lives are made the more sublime,
	By the tears we shed and the wo[-]s we feel.

Let Father “do what seemeth Him good;”
	As clay in the hands of the potter be, 
When moulded and fashioned fit for use,
	He’ll appoint thy place in eternity.

The discipline that each soul requires,
	Is meted out by a loving hand;
When fully developed, thy call will be,
	Daughter return to thy Fatherland.
								NELLIE.
	June 1, 1897.


[Column 1]
REFLECTIONS OF A PIONEER.

How often are we told that faith is a gift
of God. If so when was it given? My
faith has been from early childhood when
first taught to repeat my evening prayer,
which is simply this:
"Now I lay me down to sleep,I pray the Lord my
soul to ke[-]p,''
If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my
soul to take,
And this I ask for Jesus sake."
Surely impressions made in youth are
more lasting, the mind then being like a

[Column 2]
sheet of white paper and impressions are
clear, not confused.
A little later when I was at school our
Testament class would read immediately
after prayer. This was over seventy years
ago, but it was the custom in all our schools
in the state of New York.
In this book, the New Testament, we
find the Savior taught His disciples to pray
saying: “Our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be Thy name; Thy kingdom
come and Thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven” etc. How beautiful, is it not?
And would not this strengthen our faith?
Could we doubt there was a God in heaven
who could see us and hear our prayers?
Then how important that this impression be
made in childhood by precept and example,
for the Lord’s prayer was not made in vain.
Oh no, that time must and will come when
His will must be done on earth as it is in
heaven.
Then the question arises, How will this
time come and when will it come? Think
a moment. Do not we find in the Old
Testament in the book of Genesis that this
earth was made in seven days, and the
Lord finished His work on the seventh day
and rested? Did not the Prophet Moses
require the children of Israel to keep the
seventh day holy, and the seventh year was
a jubilee when freedom must be given to
any who were oppressed? If the seventh
year will bring such a jubilee, what will
seven thousand bring? I think the first
chapter in the Acts of the Apostles tells us
what we may expect at that time.
We read in the 1st chapter, beginning at
the 8th verse to the 12th: “Ye shall receive
power after the Holy Ghost is given unto
you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me un-
to the uttermost parts of the earth.
“And while speaking a cloud received
Him out of their sight, and while looking
steadfastly toward heaven as He went up,
behold two men stood by Him in white ap-
parel and said, ‘Ye men of Galilee why
stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same
Jesus which is taken up from you, shall
come in like manner as ye see Him go up’ "
Is not this testimony sufficient for us?
And when He comes will it not be in the
seventh thousand year, the Sabbath of crea-
tion, or in other words the Milleneum,
when He will come to reign King of kings,
and Lord of lords?
Now the question is will we be prepared
for this great event? The Prophet Joseph
Smith tells us that Jesus must find exactly
such a people here as those He brings with
Him. The same character, the same faith
and one with Him in all things. Now who
is sent to prepare the way for this great
event, can you tell me? Has any one or-
ganized a church exactly as the one which
Jesus built, with twelve apostles, elders,
priests and deacons, also seventies as you
read in Luke 10th chapter, 1st verse. “The
Lord appointed other seventies also and sent
them two. and two into every place where
He Himself would come.” In the 7th verse
we read: “The seventies returned with joy,
saying, Lord even the devils are subject to
us through Thy name.”
He then tells them what He saw and in the
20th verse He says: “Notwithstanding, in
this rejoice not that the spirits are subject to
you, but rather rejoice that your names are
written in heaven.”
He had gained the victory, they were
only obedient to His laws. Now is not this
a lesson to us to be obedient to His laws?

[Column 3]
for they are perfect and will perfect all who
give strict heed to them.
And He says: “Take my yoke upon
you and learn of me, for my yoke is easy
and my burden is light.” With His holy
spirit it is joyful and light also, but without
it, it would not be so I can assure you.
Please excuse me when I say that this
Pioneer feels an anxious desire that the
youth may see the Gospel in its own true
light, which when accomplished will fill
their souls with light and joy and peace, it
being the gift of the Holy Ghost, the Com-
forter. May we be fit temples for the in-
dwelling of this good spirit, for it must
have a pure heart to inhabit, it will not ac-
cept any other. This being the faith of the
Saints I hope the parents and guardians
may not lose sight of this important subject,
but teach the youth to grow in grace and a
knowledge of the truth.
These are the views of a pioneer, and of
all the Saints are they not? Then we will
be worthy to be called Saints. How desira-
ble. Let us not be weary in well doing for
in due time we shall reap if we faint not.

ZlONS CONVERT.
October, 1897.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	SINCE the statement about the poet sing-
er, James G. Clark, was made in the Tri-
bune of September 25, he has passed to the
land whose glories seemed very real to him
when he composed the immortal melody
for the hymn “When the Mists Have Rolled
Away.”						—Ex.
	THE District Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion has elected its ex-president, Mrs. Ellen
Powell Thompson, again as its leader, and
this insures an active and strong society for
this very important season when the great
celebration is to be held here and much im-
portant work is to be done.		Ex.—
	MRS MARIA FRINK, of Valparaiso, Ind.,
who writes under the nom de plume of
“Grace Gold,” thinks that the social re-
demption of the world wil be obtained not
by destroying the criminals and incapables,
but by putting out of existence the causes
which make them what they are—saloons,
gambling dens, immoral dives, obscene
pictures, impure literature—every thing
which tends to drag humanity downward.
	JUST before leaving the country last
month, Mr. W. L. Stead, the London edi-
tor, who some years ago exposed crimes
committed against young girls in his city,
was interviewed by a New York World re-
porter. Mr. Stead has reached the conclu-
sion that English women receive less of the
“small change of outward courtesy” than
do American women, but are given much
more solid and serious respect. In support
of his opinions he said:
	The English are not ashamed to place a wo-
man high above all their politicians, to keep her
there for sixty years, and to give her a direct and
potent voice in settling all the great affairs of
state, from dealing with which in the American
Republic women are debarred. You may say
the Queen is only a figurehead. If so she is
much the liveliest and most potent figurehead in
history. The chance of being such a figurehead
is denied by your Constitution and customs to
the ablest person of the states if she should chance
to be born a woman.				—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1897.


THE LATE ELECTION.

	So many stirring events have transpired
within the last few days that one is at a loss
to select from among them those most not-
able of record. The municipal election was
one worthy of attention and of serious con-
sideration; a new feature of the occasion
was the non-partisan movement made by
prominent citizens for the purpose of reform
in the city government. Great pains was
taken by leading citizens both men and wo-
men to disseminate information in regard to
the condition of affairs under party admin-
istration, and though the non-partisans did
not elect the entire ticket nominated, yet
the people had an object lesson that will be
servicable in time to come
	The outlook at any rate is more hopeful
than it would have been if no movement
for a reform in this regard had been made.
Better men have been selected possibly and
more thoughtfulness exercised in the mat-
ter of voting. The women of the city have
had another opportunity to exercise the
franchise, and when one is aware of the
large percentage of women voters in this
city it is very strange that neither of the
women nominees were elected. It is our
opinion that the women whose names were
on the tickets, Non-Partisan, Republican and
Democrati were as well qualified to fill the
offices as the men who were the contestants
and were elected. These women were all
reliable, conscientious and suitable as can-
didates.
	The officers for the city government for
the ensuing term are Mayor, John Clark, N.
P. Recorder, H. Backman, D. Trea-
surer, Richard P. Morris, D. Attorney, W.
C. Hall, D. Police Justice, J. B. Timmony,
D. Auditor, George Swan, N. P. Council-
men there were four Non-Partisans, three
Republicans and eight Democrats.
	This variety of parties is better necessa-
rily than if all were of one political faith,
and the men are very likely to watch each
other pretty close and with the educational
teaching recently given on the platform and
in various other ways public and private—
the community will be on the alert to see
how things go; they are not at all likely to
forget the warnings that have been given,
and they have suffered enough from mis-
management in the past to be on their
guard in the future against intrigue and
corruption in city affairs. At any rate we
should look on the bright side if possible,
and believing there is a strong and safe man
at the helm, trust he will set things right


and maintain such dignity as will keep
others in countenance, that the city may
look with pride upon its new officials.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	RECENTLY women have been serving as
jurors in the state of Idaho, and it is said they
were a success, the press correspondence says
much in their favor, we quote: “The wo-
men jurors in Idaho have made a good be-
ginning. They have demonstrated that
they know what substantial justice is. It
is said the “substantial justice” was at the
expense of precedent. It has always seemed
proper for women to act as jurors and in
Wyoming according to testimony of those
acquainted with the facts, women were suc-
cessful jurists as well as judges; and if there
why not elsewhere. At any rate it is de-
voutly to be hoped they would do as well or
better than in some recent cases in Utah
where men only were on the jury. Men
and women in almost every matter where
wisdom and good judgment are required
do the best work where both have equal
opportunity.
	AT the residence of Dr. C. F. Wilcox on
Thursday, October 26, a very pleasant
party of old friends and acquaintances met
together by invitation of Mrs. Wilcox and
passed an agreeable afternoon and evening.
The conversation was mostly reminiscent,
varied somewhat by current topics of the
day. The five o’clock tea was a delightful
part of the entertainment, delicious viands
served in the most appetizing style, and
withal the usual easy table-talk which
among such dear friends is exceptionally
wholesome. After tea there was some
music and a few words “fitly spoken” by
Sister Zina who expected to leave the city
soon on a visit to her daughter in Canada;
then the hymn “O My Father” was sung
and social chat indulged in for a short time.
The guests were Sisters Zina D. H. Young,
Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Mary Ellen Kimball, Maria Burton, Mar-
garet P. Young, Margaret Y. Taylor,
Maria W. Wilcox, Elizabeth J. Stevenson,
Lucy W. Kimball, E. B. Wells and Elder
Ezra Stevenson. These with the young 
Doctor and his amiable wife made fourteen
at table instead of the superstitious thirteen.
The party was in every respect a success
except for the absent ones who had been
expected, Sisters M. I. Horne, J. C. Howe
and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Such delightful
occasions cement the bonds of love and
sympathy and make us feel to do as Shake-
speare has so truly said—
“The fri[-]nds thou hast, and their adoption tried
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.”
	AN anniversary meeting of the Relief
Society of Lehi was held on Monday Oct.
24, in the hall of the Society, Mrs. Rebecca
Standring presiding. The president, after
the opening exercises, referred briefly to
the work of the Society since its organiza-
tion and the results numerically, financially,
charitable and spiritual. The Society was
organized twenty-nine years ago, and at
that time there were in all nineteen mem-
bers enrolled including the five officers, and
during the time which has elapsed since the
number has increased to over three hun-
dred; then they had a few carpet rags and
patches for quilts, now they own a very
nice, comfortable hall and two granaries,
also hundreds of bushels of grain and much

[Column 2]
other merchandise, have on hand some
cash and sundries etc. The labor of cloth-
ing and feeding the needy, and caring for
the sick and dying, and doing all kinds of
charitable work, comforting the mourner
and those bowed down with sorrow, and all
that is included in being a help in every
time of need, all these the good sisters of
Lehi have done and have never failed.
The growth and development of members
of the Society in the intellectual progress
cannot be over-estimated, and the advan-
tages and benefits afforded to women who
labor in this Society are not appreciated
nor can they be until one is fully initiated
in the work practically. President Mary
John of Utah Stake, and her counselor,
Marilla Daniels, were in Lehi to attend the
meeting and also the writer from Salt Lake
City. Many subjects of interest were spok-
en upon and Bishop Cutler gave good coun-
sel and encouragement to the sisters, dwell-
ing emphatically upon home industries,
and giving some potent facts. The remarks
of President John and President Standring,
also Sister Daniels and others were stimu-
lating and inspiring, and Sisters H. Jacobs
and Jones who had recently returned from
visiting in England and Wales each gave a
sketch of her experience while away which
was very interesting. There were two
meetings, morning and afternoon, and
much good instruction was given that can-
not fail to help the work along. Sister
Melissa Willis, a veteran in the Church and
in the Society was present in the afternoon
and bore a strong testimony. The Society
in Lehi is not a whit behind any other and
is in a very prosperous condition. We feel
to congratulate Sister Standring, the very
able president, on her labors and the success
attending them, and the entire band of sis-
ters united in the grand and noble work of
caring for the meek and humble of the
earth.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE October general conference of the
Relief Society was held in the large Taber-
nacle in this city October 7, commencing
at 10 a. m., Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presid-
ing. Of the general officers present there
were besides the president, Jane S. Rich-
ards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors; E.
B. Wells, R. B. Pratt, secretaries; M. I.
Horne, treasurer. Quite a number of presi-
dents of the Relief Society Stake organiza-
tions were present and a fair-sized congrega-
tion. Meeting opened by singing “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet.” Prayer
by Elder Lucius A. Snow. Singing “O My
Father. Roll called, 22 presidents and
representatives present. Minutes of April
conference read and approved.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke a few
minutes and welcomed the sisters affection-
ately; told the sisters she loved them as
well as she was capable of loving, and ap-
preciated their labors and works of charity
and love. She remembered very well when
President Young first spoke of building the
Tabernacle in which we were holding con-
ference, heard him talk with the brethren
about it and tell them his plans. She also
referred to his putting his cane down into
the ground and saying here is the very spot
where the Temple and Tabernacle will be
built. Sister Young also described some of
her feelings when she entered into the or-
der of celestial marriage, felt that she was
renouncing the world and laying her all up


[Column 1]
on the altar, sacrificing everything. Felt
now that the Lord had blest her abundantly
for the course she took. She bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the Gospel and
the mission of Joseph the prophet; and
added that she felt happy in seeing the faces
of the sisters gathered in the conference.
	President Julia P. Lindsey, of Bear Lake
Stake, made a good representation. She had
felt as if they were a little behind, but since
coming and hearing from other places
thought differently. She with some of her
board had visited once a year around the
Stake and some of the nearer branches
oftener, they had long distances to travel
in visiting. Reported that they were saving
up money for a reserve fund, she enjoyed
her labors, never enjoyed anything so much
	President Emma J. Bennett, of Bingham
Stake, said the Relief Society presidency
were always invited to go around the Stake
with the presiding brethren, they went in
wagons and by train. Felt there was no
greater work than the one we are engaged
in, and spoke of the laying up of grain—
they had 1800 bushels now and expected to
have more this harvest. Knew the sisters
had been blest in the work of the Society,
and felt happy in her labors.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Bannock
Stake, reported all in good condition. They
had one new branch organized recently in
Anaconda, Montana. They had to travel a
distance of 600 miles around in visiting the
branches, “and we go once a year always
and do all we possibly can to encourage the
sisters and promote union and good feeling,
we have a good band of willing and faithful
sisters.”
	President Elizabeth Fox, Oneida Stake,
said she had not been very well but felt im-
proved in health since she came down to
the General Conference, believed it was a
little relaxation to get away from cares.
Spoke upon the grain question and of the
organization in Baker City, Oregon. Bore
a good testimony of the Gospel and alluded
to her experiences in the Church.
	President Kittie E. Dixon, of Star Valley
Stake, reported all the branches in compara-
tively good condition, all feeling well in the
work and enjoying a good spirit; she felt
the work was progressing and the sisters
making the best use of their opportunities.
They had to travel fifty and sixty miles to
visit but were always welcomed and
enjoyed seeing the sisters.
	President Mabel A. Hakes, of Maricopa
Stake, gave a good report, said the sisters
had assisted in building the Stake Taber-
nacle and furnishing it, and had bought a
silver sacramental service. She thought
we would laugh if we knew how they tried
to store grain in five gallon tin cans, related
some of their experiences. An Indian sis-
ter had admonished them that to pray more
in time of sickness and have more faith
would lessen the sickness, and give them
more time to go to meeting; but after the
death of her child she felt to rebel and said
she didn’t know as she cared for the Lord.
The Indians preserve wheat in baskets and
cement it over, there are 1300 Indians in
Maricopa Stake and only 1800 white people.
	President Mary B. Eyring, of Juarez
Stake, Mexico, made an excellent represen-
tation felt the sisters improved in a tem-
poral way, there were not many who had
to be provided for, and they had the neces-
saries of life if they had not the luxuries.
Sister Eyring talked about silk culture in a
very practical way, they have a fine cli-

[Column 2]
mate, never so hot or so cold as St. George,
and they had peace, great peace. One
Mexican woman among them could speak
good English, yet she did not say they im-
proved as Sister Hakes had said of Marico-
pa. They are polite and always say good
morning etc., and never go out of the house
without speaking; the sisters hold meetings
twice a month, a certain few attend and
the others take it easy.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp felt it a great honor
to speak to the sisters who had come from a
distance, was glad to hear their remarks.
Dwelt principally upon nursing and mid-
wifery, thought there were not sisters well
trained in some branches in the settlements
of Zion, hoped the sisters would take the
matter under advisement and see to it that
a sufficient number were trained in these
things, that the sick need not suffer for
suitable help. Spoke of the sick children
and advised simple remedies.
	President Jane S. Richards followed Dr.
Shipp and related some of her experiences
with children. She had enjoyed hearing
from far-off places, thought when we heard
of sisters visiting to such distant localities it
was a testimony to us of the truth of the
work in which we are engaged; she believed
in making work for those who needed help
and were able to work, it would keep them
from evil, urged the sisters to take better care
of their girls, also to teach their sons as
well as their daughters to come up by de-
grees and arrive at a higher point in time,
not go ahead too fast. Sister Young had
given her a text to speak upon but felt it
was too late. There may be boys and girls
who would take places to work and earn
means, instead of having it given to them.
“I am a friend to poor people, and we all
know they are to inherit the kingdom.” Re-
lated some incidents in reference to getting
employment for boys, spoke of our all
coming to this valley poor and having to
work for what we obtained. Sister Rich-
ards blest the sisters and asked the Lord to
bless them in the name of Jesus. Singing
Doxology. Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
Benediction by Sister B. W. Smith. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION: President Zina
D. H. Young presiding. Singing “Now
let us rejoice,” etc. Prayer by President
Susan Grant. President Sarah M. Kimball
was the first speaker, she prayed that some-
thing might be said beneficial to the Soci-
ety, and remarked that a president of one of
the Stakes of Zion had said we were raising
a set of tramps, wondered how far the Re-
lief Society was responsible for these things.
She recalled that the first thing the first
president of the Society, Sister Emma
Smith, did, and Joseph’s instructions to the
Society were to find employment for the
poor who had to be kept by the Society.
“There will come a time when we shall be
brought nearer to each other in this respect
than we are now.” She sometimes thought
of Heber C. Kimball when he said, “If the
Lord could afford it he could.” Sister Kim-
ball had been very much exercised upon
this matter and felt it was a serious one,
and should be dealt with in a practical way
by which habits of industry would be
taught and practised.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was glad to see
so many present and had been pleased with
the reports in the morning session, thought
the Society had grown and become very
great when everywhere that there are Lat-
ter-day Saints we can have an organization

[Column 3]
of the Society. Thought that we had al-
ways tried to devise means for those who
needed help and were able to work and
earn something for themselves. Felt that
we were training ourselves to live perfect
and to purify ourselves so as to be prepared
for the millennium; knew that the poor
were the ones who paid tithing urged the
sisters to do the duties nearest and to im-
prove in every good thing, and not to neg-
lect their Temple work.
	President M. Isabella Horne felt we had
had a most enjoyable conference, spoke of
the long distance some had traveled to at-
tend conference, two thousand miles; stated
that it was fifty-five years last March since
the sisters were organized, now we were
known in almost every land. Speaking of
the large number of poor to be provided
for she mentioned that in some wards there
were as many as two hundred dependent or
pratically so, some there were one hundred, in
others fifty; those who live in the country
do not know how hard it is for us to take
care of so many dependent upon charity.
Bishops and brethren in the country have
so much to do and are not able to get suf-
ficient help; if some of those in the city who
need work would go out into the country
and get work instead of living off other peo-
ple it would be better all around. She felt
most of the branches in Salt Lake Stake
were doing very well and were stirred up to
their duties in saving grain, referred to the
conditions in the world and bore testimony
concerning Joseph the prophet and the Lat-
ter-day work.
	President Sarah Pope, Uintah Stake, said
it was her first visit to the city in eight
years: had enjoyed the time very much, in
the Stake where she presided they had two
conferences in a year and traveled around
twice a year, they had eleven hundred
bushels of grain and two granaries and in-
tended building more; the branches in
Uintah were very scattering, they had to
travel a hundred and sixty five miles to
visit; rejoiced in the spirit of the work and
felt to press on and try to encourage others.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt testified that she felt edi-
fied and built up in attending the General
conference and also in the Relief Society
conference. The Society had been a great
blessing as well as a great labor, felt we
should use every effort possible in the way
of progress. Urged the young sisters to
study and become acquainted with their
own organism and the general principle of
hygiene, it would make every woman a
greater blessing to herself, to her fam-
ily and to the community, and she would
be able to do more good in all places; felt as
a people we should advocate these things
more, that no ward or settlement should be
without efficient nurses and educated pract-
tioners, that much suffering might be saved.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon silk cul-
ture as employment for those who needed
to be helped, the practical adaptation of it in
our climate, the results already achieved, also
spoke of sustaining our own home literature
and especially the need we had for making
our own representation in this way, men-
tioned other matters and dwelt earnestly
upon the need of younger women interest-
ing themselves in charitable and philan-
thropic labors.
	President E. S. Taylor spoke very forci-
bly upon the need of the sisters sustaining
the “Exponent,” made some definite points
in favor of the paper and the wide field
there was for home literature of this kind,


realized that it had been a blessing in many
ways, made other excellent remarks and
bore a good testimony of the labors of the
sisters in the Relief Society.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of the
“Exponent,” the need of the sisters sus-
taining it and urged them to subscribe.
Spoke of Joseph’s teachings to the Society,
his prophecy with regard to the great work
the sisters would do and felt his words were
being fulfilled now. Blest the sisters as-
sembled and felt they would go home
stronger spiritually and be able to administer
in their own wards to the sisters, and grow
wiser and better.
	Elder L. John Nuttall exhorted the sis-
ters to make some exertion in reference to
employment and referred to the bnreau of
labor established ih this city at the April
conference, said our condition is much bet-
ter now; Bishop Preston has charge of this
business and is prepared to find employ-
ment. Spoke also of the “Exponent” and
urged the sisters to do as much as possible
to sustain it, made some definite suggestions
for their action in the matter. Brother
Nuttall referred to the course of instruction
to secretaries in keeping their books that
was decided upon at the conference in April,
thought, that the officers of the Stake
should make arrangements to have all the
several branch officers assemble in some
two or three places in the Stake and get the
necessary information that there might be a
uniform system in the matter of book keep-
ing, then we would be prepared at any time
to have our books examined. Brother Nut-
tall was willing to give the needful instruc-
tion, and to travel in any of the Stakes with
the president when arrangements could be
made; spoke of the grain and that the priest-
hood were with the sisters in this matter,
and the wheat was not to be interfered with
but left until needed.
	President Jane S. Richards stated briefly
the word she had received from the Presi-
dency in regard to changing old wheat for
new, and getting interest on it because it
would shrink. Bishop Hunter had said if it
were well taken care of it would keep many
years. Sister Richards dwelt upon charity
and kindness to the poor and to each other,
felt there was much to make us sorrowful
and we needed kind words, and to be for-
giving to each other. We should pray for
Sister Zina, we want her to be strong; also
explained about the book keeping. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Conference adjourned un-
til April. Benediction by Sister M. I.
Horne.
			E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society conference held at Gunnison, Sep.
10, 1897, Prest. M. A. Hyde presiding.
Singing “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.” Prayer by Bishop C. A. Mad-
sen. Singing “O my Father” etc. Min-
utes of previous conference read and approved
	Prest. M. A. Hyde made opening re-
marks. The different branches of the Re-
lief Society were represented as follows,
according to the roll call: Ephraim North
Ward, Prest. Benedicta Hansen; Ephraim
South Ward, Prest. Ellen Dorius; Foun-
tain Green, Prest. Polly A. Johnson; Fay-
ette, Prest. Eliza Bartholomew; Gunnison,
Prest. Helena Madsen; Mt. Pleasant and

[Column 2]
Wales by letters to Stake Counselor A. L.
Cox; Manti North Ward, Stake Counselor
Abigail Shoemaker; Manti South Ward,
Prest. Esther Anderson; Mayfield, Prest.
Matilda Olsen; Spring City, Counselor
Nancy Acord; Sterling, Counselor Johan-
na Anderson; Fairview, Milburn and
Indianola not represented.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde felt thankful to hear
such favorable reports and to see so many
present. Noted the signs of the times, and
spoke of the large number of missionaries
being sent to the nations as having peculiar 
significance. She was pleased to see the
spirit of kindness and charity that was exist-
ing among the sisters of the Stake.
	Prest. M. I. Horne of Salt Lake City,
expressed herself as being delighted with
the favorable reports from the various wards.
Said the mission of the Relief Society was
not alone to administer to the wants of the
needy, but to save souls and to build each
other up in the faith. Urged the sisters to
exhort their husbands to good works and to
be kind to them. Said that like the Apos-
tle Paul she had nothing new to tell, but
she thought it profitable that we have our
minds stirred up by way of remembrance;
also considered it very necessary that we
attended our meetings in order to make a
good record, for we are told in Holy Writ
that we are to be judged out of the books.
	Singing “Now let us rejoice.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop Andrew Heldtsedt.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “How
firm a foundation.” Stake Counselor
Abigail Shoemaker was the first speaker.
Said we were here to make a record for our-
selves and hoped we would be more dili-
gent. Referred to the beautiful harvest
and the necessity of storing grain especially
now that many of the inhabitants of the
earth are threatened with famine. Thank-
ed the sisters for their ready response to the
call for carpet for the Temple.
	Stake Counselor Lizzie B. Allred, of the
Primary organization, reported the work in
her field of labor. Said the officers desired
a larger attendance, and felt that the occa-
sional presence of the mothers would en-
courage both those presiding and the chil-
dren.
	Stake Counselor A. L Cox hoped that the
sisters would be more diligent in attending
the meetings of the Society, and that they
would strive earnestly to overcome their
timidity that they might arise and bear tes-
timony. Referred to the signs of the times
and the necessity of being continually on
our guard to resist the wiles of the adver-
sary. Besought the mothers to gain the
confidence of their sons as well as their
daughters, and strive to impress upon them
the necessity of keeping the commandments
and living their religion; and that having a
good time should be in doing the will of
the Father.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde spoke of timidity, but
said also that we are not heard for our
much speaking but by the spirit which
prompts our words. Said the young should
not be educated that they will feel ashamed
of honest labor. Said that God and knowl-
edge combined in doing the work of the
Lord would be productive of much good.
	Sister M. I. Horne was much interested
in the subject of storing grain, as it is a
mission that has been placed upon the sis-
ters, and hoped the sisters of this Stake
would be diligent in performing this duty.
Spoke of the children, said “they are the
hope of Israel,” and urged the mothers to

[Column 3]
teach them obedience to proper authority
and to have them baptized when eight years
old, lest the Lord hold us accountable for
our neglect. Said woman’s highest mission
was to be a mother, and eulogized the ideal
home where love and unity prevail. Re-
lated some of her recollections of the Pro-
phet Joseph. Said he was childlike in
demeanor, but was a lion to evil-doers.
Called attention to the fulfillment of his
prophecies, and also the prediction of Prest.
Woodruff at the dedication of the Salt Lake
Temple. She was interested in the signs
of the times and in the progress of woman’s
work.
	Prest. Nancy Acord felt the good influ-
ence of the meeting and realized the benefits
of the sisters conference. Thought if we
knew each other better we should love each
other more.
	Bishop C. A. Madsen testified to the good
spirit prevailing in the meeting. Invoked
the blessing of Heaven upon the sisters,
that their good works might continue, in-
crease and multiply.
	Bishop Andrew Heldtsedt of the new ward
of Centerfield had been much strengthened
by the testimonies and good words of the
sisters. Testified that in his experience the
more we had to do in forwarding the work,
the more joy and contentment we have.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Guide us O Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Elder Austin
Kearns.

	On Saturday morning a branch of the
Relief Society was organized in the new
ward of Centerfield, formerly known as
Gunnison Field, with Sister Hyams as
president. On Saturday afternoon a very
interesting meeting was held in Manti. The
speakers were Sisters Hyde and Horne,
Sister Johnson of Fountain Green, and also
Prest. Maiben and Prest. McAllister.
			A. L. Cox, Act. Cor. Sec.
SUMMIT STAKE.
	MINUTES of the semi-annual conference
of Summit Stake Relief Society held in
Peoa schoolhouse, Sep. 7, 1897, President
Mary J. Atwood presiding. Meeting was
opened by singing “We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” Prayer by Bishop Stephen
Walker. Singing from Sunday School
Hymn book. Present on the stand were
Counselors Ann Cluff and Ruth M. Pack,
President W. W. Cluff of the Stake and
Counselor Edmond Eldredge, several
Bishops and others. Minutes of conference
held at Hoytsville read and accepted; roll
called and six presidents and one counselor
responded. Verbal reports of the seven
branches given as in good condition, hold-
ing their religious meetings regularly once
a month, performing all duties pertaining
to the Relief Society in general with a good
spirit manifest.
	Counselor Ruth M. Pack said “This is a
good place to sit and think over the past
few weeks of our lives and see how we
stand, and to think of the Prophet Joseph,
the great work he laid the foundation for,
the Gospel of Jesus Christ, this is what has
brought us here to the valleys of the moun-
tains. We have passed through many
trials. I remember while camped on Sugar
Creek there were nine children born in one
night. The ground was covered with
snow and it was very cold, there was great
suffering but the Lord watched over his
people.”


[Column 2]
	President Mary J. Atwood said she was
pleased to see so many of the brethren
present also President Cluff, she liked to
hear the presidents report the different
branches, we know what kind of a spirit
they manifest and how they feel. She
thought it a good thing to hold our confer-
ences in different wards, it gave many a
chance to attend that could not otherwise
do so and encouraged them to good works.
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson of Salt Lake 
City said she had learned to do. as she was
told. “Sisters Zina Young and Emmeline
B. Wells send kindly greetings to you sis-
ters in this conference today. They have a
desire for your welfare. The Prophet
Joseph organized this Society himself after
the pattern of the Holy Priesthood. I say
to my young brothers and sisters live hon
est, virtuous lives while you are raising
your families, that they may be noble sons
and daughters. Teach them true princi-
ples, call your children together and bow
down with them in prayer and call down
the rich blessings of the Lord upon you.
For fifteen years I was a teacher in the
Relief Society, I would go humble and
prayerful and talk to the sisters. I am
pleased to see so many young sisters present,
come with your mothers, help them visit
the sick, read to them and cheer them,
your young faces will do them good. We
want the sisters to save up all the wheat
they can, we want you to be earnest in this
matter. I hope the spirit of your calling
may rest upon you.”
	President Mary J. Atwood said she was
pleased with Sister Stevenson’s remarks,
let us improve by them. We all want good
boys, let us teach them to be virtuous and
respect themselves. If they have the
Priesthood conferred upon them they should
be pure and virtuous men.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing “Glorious things o’ thee are
spoken.” Benediction by Bishop Wright.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened 
by singing “Stars of morning” Prayer
by Willet S. Ha[-]der. Singing “Now let
us rejoice” etc.
	Counselor Ann Cluff said she was pleased
to meet with her sisters and was pleased
with the advice given to the teachers. We
should all be willing to give of our means
to the Society. If the fathers would help
teach our sons the principles of the Gospel
we might have many more bright young
men. “You cannot do better than send
your children to the Church schools that
they may be fitted to fill responsible posi-
tions and be taught true principles. I ask
the Lord to bless us all.”
	The Stake officers of the Relief Society
were sustained, the vote being unanimous.
The officers of the various branches as they
now stand were sustained unanimously.
Sister Stevenson spoke a short time. She
said: “Our salvation is individual, we each
have to work for ourselves. I am pleased
to see so many brethren present, if they
understood the benefit their wives received
from these meetings they would be anxious
for them to attend. Our sisters are better
just as the brothers are better for attending
the priesthood meetings. Sisters make
your homes pleasant and happy to induce
our husbands and sons to spend their time
at home. By doing good to others we do
good to ourselves. Sister Eliza R. Snow
always advised semi-monthly meetings, al-
ways open and close your meetings on time,
be punctual. Never go in debt, always

[Column 2]
have the pleasure of spending what is your
own. Sisters take the EXPONENT and
encourage this work, it is our paper and
the sisters should take it. I ask all bless-
ings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	Sister Lillie Freeze of the Y. L. M. I. A.
from Salt Lake City, said, “It is natural
for me to do what I have to do with all my
strength. The spirit of revelation and the
Kingdom of God are so widely spreading
it takes all, both young and old to fill these
duties. I have been called to travel among
my sisters and to encourage them in their
labors of love. Be patient with those child-
ren who are wayward, be kind to them and
pray for them, instil the principles of the
Gospel in their minds and after awhile they
will settle down and seek after righteous-
ness. I pray the Spirit may give you my
remarks in the same spirit I give them to
you, for it is my desire to do you good. I
ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	President W. W. Cluff said, “I can truly
say I am pleased to be with you and pleas-
ed with the remarks that have been made.
approve of the instructions of Sister
Stevenson for the young sisters to join the
Relief Society as soon as they are married
The education of our children commences
at birth and continues through life. Many
of us may regret that we have not been
more thorough in the education of our sons
in the principles of the Gospel, let us en-
courage them, then there will be any
amount of young men to fill responsible
positions and we will be proud of them. May
this be our happy lot and may the blessings
of God be with you.”
	Bishop S. F. Atwood gave the sisters
good advice in regard to the care and the
health of their children. He was pleased
with the remarks and the good spirit mani-
fest during the conference.
	President Mary J. Atwood made a few
closing remarks. Was pleased with the
arrangements made to make us so comfortble.
	Singing from the Sunday School Hymn
book.  Conference adjourned to meet at
Rockport the first Tuesday in May 1898.
Benediction by Edmond Eldredge.
	MARY L. WOOLSTENHULME, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

ANNIE N. BOWRING.
	WITH loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of our sister, Annie Bowring of Brigham
City, who departed this life Sep. 14, 1897.
	Annie Nyman Bowring, d[-]ughter of Henry
G[-]orge and Jane Bird Nyman, was born at Lye
Hill Burbage, Wiltshire, England, Dec. 23, 1844.
She emigrated to Utah in 1863, crossed the ocean
in the sailing vessel Amazon, and crossed the
plains in Dan McArthur’s company with ox teams
and reached Salt Lake City in Oct. of the same
year. She was married to Elder Henry Bowring
the same year, and was the mother of three sons
two of whom are still living
	She was connected with the Relief Society of
the 15th Ward, Salt Lake City as secretary,
came to Brigham City in 1877 and has resided
here ever since. In 1878 she was elected secre-
tary in the 1st Ward Society which position she
fi[-]led until April 1885, also acted as teacher from
May 1881 until Feb. 1885. After having removed
to the 3rd Ward she was elected secretary for this
ward S[-]ciety, which position she faithfully filled
until June 1892, when she was elected assistant
secretary of the Stake board, which position she
held at the time of her death She also acted a
few years as corresponding secretary of the Y. L.
M. I. A. Stake board.
	Sister Annie Bowring possessed the love and
respect of her co-laborers, and although she has
for yea[-]s been in delicate health her death came
so unexpectedly, on the very morning of our Re-
lief Society c[-]nference, that a spirit of solemnity
and sadness prevaded the meetings of the whole

[Column 2]
day; still we mourn not in despair for we feel as- .
cured that all is well with our sister and that she
is in a happy place, associating with the faithful
loved ones who have gone bef[-]re.
	RESOLVED, That we place these sentiments on
our records, also publish a copy in the “Woman’s
Exponent,” also present a copy to her bereaved
family.
	OLIVIA WIDERBORG, Pres.
	EMELIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

ANN B. HELLSTROM.
	WRITTEN in memoriam of Anna Bridget Hells-
trom who died at Colonia, Juarez, Mexico, June
30, 1897. Deceased was the daughter of Olof
Olson and Catherine Anderson She was born at
Gillberga, Sodermanlan, Sweden, March 16, 1824.
Sister H[-]llstrom embraced the Gospel in her
native land many years since and gathered with
the Saints, leaving husband and relatives but
bringing with her two children, a son and a
daughter. The daughter died leaving six child-
ren whom our beloved sister has taken care of,
providing for their wants by her faithful and un-
tiring labors. Few women have been more active
than was our respected and beloved sister in
carrying on the work God gives women to do.
She was a firm believer in industry, not in theory
only but in practice. She was a strict tithing
payer and was indeed a model Latter-day Saint,
and a woman in whom there was no guile. She
was a teacher in the Relief Society and faithfully
discharged her duties in that capacity for some
time. We can truly say of her that she was one of
God’s noble women, faithful, unassuming and
consistent, and her examp[-]e was worthy of imita-
tion.
	The funeral services were held at the ward
meeting house. Appropriate remarks were made
by Antony Ivins, president of the Stake, Bishop
George A. S[-]eley, Counselor Miles P. Romney
and Patriarch W. W. Stowell. A large cortege
followed the remains of our beloved sister to its
resting place.
	In behalf of the Relief Society we tender our
deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. May
we emulate her example that when we are called
home we may hear the joyous notes sounded
“Well done good and fafthful servant, enter into
thy rest.”
	Resolved by the Relief Society that a copy of
this sketch be sent to the family, a copy placed
on record and one forwarded to the “Exponent”
for publication.
	PHOEBE FIFE, Pres.
	HANNAH S. BALLINGER, Sec.

SARAH JEREMY WILLIAMS.
	Sunday morning August 22, 1897, the spirit of
Sister Sarah Jeremy Williams passed to the other
world. She was born August 11, 1819, in Llane-
gwad Parish, Carmarthen Co., South Wales.
	She was the daughter of Thomas Jeremy and
Sarah Evans, and the widow of Evan William.
	Sister Williams was a true convert to the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ and throughout her life lived
as a consistent Latter-day Saint. She was among
the first in her neighborhood to believe in the
divine mission of Joseph Smith and was baptized
June 20, 1848.
	When she left Wales for America, April 9, 1861,
her husband and family were not members of the
the Church but upon their arrival in Florence,
Nebraska. June 10, 1861, Brother W[-]lliams and
three of the children were baptized by Apostle
Geo. Teasdale.
	While in Florence Sister Williams had a very
severe sick spell and for a time her life was des-
paired of, but she recovered and proceeded on
her journey and reached the valley in September.
On this journey she buried two children, one in
Florence and one near Green river.
	Sis[-]er Williams was a truly chria[-]able woman,
as many in Wales as well as here can testify. Her
greatest pleasure was in relieving the wants
of the needy. She identified herself with
the Relief Society very soon after reaching Utah
and for a great many years she was an active and
energetic worker in the 16th Ward Relief Society,
filling the office of a teacher to the entire sa[-]ls-
faction of the officers of that ward. The poor on
the block where she labored can testify to the
faithfulness of her labors, and they feel that they
have indeed lost a kind friend.
	Sister Williams was a refined and intelligent
woman, a loving and patient wife and mother,
being exceptionally devo[-]ed to her family and a
true and sympathizing friend. She was greatly
blessed in that she retained her health and
strength and the possession of her faculties up to
her 78th birthday, on which day she was taken


sick and eleven days later passed away surround
ed by all of her chidren.
	Sis'er Williams death is sincerely mourned by
family and friends. She was the mother of eight
children. Her living posterity is six children,
forty-one grandchildren and three great-grand-
children.
	She lived and died in full faith in the Gospel
and joyful anticipation of a glorious resurrection.
							C. S. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]	
	PRENATAL INFLUENCES.
	IN all ages and among all people the idea
has prevailed that prenatal conditions have
wielded a mighty power in forming the in-
tellectual, moral and physical nations of
mankind. In our own time as well as
from the dim voices of the past we learn
how strong is the belief in maternal impres-
sions. We know how deformities, birth-
marks and various diseases are charged by
mothers to conditions which operated dur-
ing the period of gestation. Religion, his-
tory and science all testify that prenatal in-
fluence is all powerful in forming the char-
acters and dispositions of human beings.
	The scriptures tell us that “The sins of the
fathers shall be visited upon the children
unto the third and fourth generation.” Num.
14th chapter, 18th verse. And in Genesis, 3rd
chapter we read: “And Jacob took him
rods of green poplar and of the hazel and
chestnut trees, and peeled white streaks in
them and made the white appear which was
in the rods. And he set the rods which he
had peeled before the flocks in the gutters
in the watering troughs where the flocks
came to drink that they should conceive
when they came to drink.
	And the flocks conceived before
the rods and brought forth cattle, ring-
streaked, speckled and spotted.”
	History profane and sacred abounds with
numerous examples testifying to the poten-
cy of prenatal power. Napoleon I. doubtless
was made the general he was from the fact
that his mother spent the greater part of
her time on horseback during his prenatal
period. She was a woman of great courage
and accompanied her husband through the
campaign with Paoli in 1790. During this
time she was in constant peril and danger,
and not only surrounded with but intensely
engaged in all the pomp and circumstance
of war and in this way not only became
familiar with the horrors of war, but also
became reconciled to it and in a measure
enjoyed it. This being so it could not pos-
sibly be otherwise that in her son was im-
planted that indomitable spirit, that un-
bounded ambition and passion for warlike
pursuits that in its exercise did not stop
short of the subjugation of the world.
	The prenatal life of the poet Burns, our
own Garfield, Lincoln and many others
might be given showing how each one was
endowed with those gifts and national quali-
fications enabling him to occupy the posi-
tion in the world’s history which he did.
	Scientific writers without number most
positively assert that not only the physical
nature of the child, its beauty of face and
form, but that its mental and moral facul-
ties are materially influenced by conditions
existing before its birth. Indeed they go
farther and say that idiocy, insanity, imbe-
cility, drunkenness and many criminal in-
stincts are transmitted from parent to child
by strong mental emotions, immoral and
wholly incorrect habits of life.
	Dr. Henry Maudsley in his excellent
work on Body and Mind says: “Perhaps
of all erroneous notions concerning mind

[Column 2]
which metaphysics’ has engendered or abet-
ted, there is none more false than that
which tacitly assumes, or explictly declares
that men are born with equal original men-
tal capacity, opportunities and education
determining the difference of subsequent
development.
	The opinion is as cruel as it is false.
What man can by taking thought add one
cubit either to his mental or his bodily
stature? Multitudes of human beings
come into the world weighted with a des-
tiny against which they have neither the
will nor the power to contend, they are the
step-children of Nature and groan under
the worst of all tyrannies, the tyranny of a
bad organization. Men differ indeed in the
fundamental character of their minds as
they do in the features of their countenances,
or in the habits of their bodies, and between
those who are born with the potentialty of a
full and complete mental development, un-
der favorable circumstances, and those who
are born with an innate incapacity of men-
tal development under any circumstances
there exists every graduation What teach-
ing could ever raise the congenital idiot to
the common level of human intelligence?
What teaching could ever keep the inspired
mind of the man of genius at that level?
	The congenital idiot is deprived of his
human birthright, for he is born with such
a defect of brain that he cannot display any,
or can only display very feeble and imper-
fect mental functions. From no fault of
his own is he thus afflicted, seeing that he
must be held innocent of all offence but the
offence of his share in the original sin; but
it is nowise so clear that it is not from some
fault of his parents. It is all too true that
in many cases there has observsbly beeh a
neglect or disregard of the laws which
govern the progress of human development
through the ages.
	Idiocy is indeed a manufactured article,
and although we are not always able to tell
how it is manufactured, still the important
causes are known and are within control.
Many cases are distinctly tracable to parent-
al intemperance and excess. Out of three
hundred idiots in Mass. Dr. Howe found as
many as one hundred and forty-five to be
the offspring of intemperate parents, and
there were numerous scattered observations
which prove that chronic alcoholism in the
parent may directly occasion idiocy in the
child.”
	Thus we find that physoligists admit
and observations prove that the maternal
emotions do effect the exterior of the foetus,
and likewise may the mental development
be altered in its complex and delicate or-
ganization. The mind influences and mod-
ifies the body in ways unexplained.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes. 
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the 
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Mrs Kate Bridgwell Anderson’
	Formerly of New Orleans, and re-
cently of Ogden, has opened a vocal
Studio in Unity Hall, 28 W. Third
South. Operatic repertoire a special-
ty. Hours from 10 until 2 p.m., ex-
cept Wednesdays and Saturdays.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S SCHOOL.
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address 			ELLIS R. SHIPP.

[shield image]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the right of the shield]
The People’s Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver						6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City			3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver				0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

