Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in December) MIRACLES OF THE LATTER DAYS "Mormonism" has become "a marvelous work and a wonder" in the eyes of the world, but to the Latter-day Saint it is a progressive miracle. Without Divine interposition and delegated authority and individual testimony (a faith that is a gift from God) this Church could never have been an institution fulfiling prophecy as it has. It is predestined to triumph with the sword of truth and to dominate by rendering Christian service. "Mormonism" had its Beginning in a Miracle. Joseph Smith's first vision was no human day-dream, it was a revelation as far above man's imagination as is the sun above the arc light. The grove, made sacred by the miracle, was a sanctuary for the first Latter-day Saint (an innocent truth-seeking boy); it was a temple blessed with the presence of God. The Father and his Son, the Redeemer of the World., Both were seen, each spoke, and was heard, the Father introducing his immortal, resurrected Son in a manner that showed: the kindest consideration of the one and the most tender affection and highest approval of the other. ''Joseph, this is my beloved son, hear him." Then follows the question addressed to both the Father and the Son. It was answered by the Son, who supplemented his reply with instructions. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smith, II, 8-28.) This miracle had behind it the word of the Lord in the form of prophecy. (See Book of Mormon, II Nephi 3:7-16.) It had behind it also a human family need. The true God idea had become so distorted by false teachings that nothing short of a direct revelation of the personality and character and relationship of the Eternal Father and his Son, the Redeemer, could form a safe foundation for the dispensation of the fulness of times. 'Darkness covered the earth." The true and living God had been argued out of existence in the minds of men. The miracle in the grove brought back the lost truth. It was "The dawning of a brighter day." There was now one person on the earth who had more than a knowledge of God, he GUIDE LESSONS. 545 had an acquaintance with God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and that acquaintance was increasingly lasting. All who know of the fidelity of Joseph Smith to the reality of the first vision can say for him what Paul said of himself, 'I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." The Book of Mormon a Miracle. The second great miracle of "Mormonism" was the appearance of the angel Moroni. This messenger from heaven, who had been the guardian of the plates for more than a thousand years, showed that he was no stranger to the new seer, for he calls Joseph by name. This miracle has the remarkable distinction of being three times repeated. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smah, Ul, 29-47.) In preparing Joseph for the possession and translation of the plates, several miracles were performed, and one of them was of a nature that put Joseph on the failure list. He, however, with an honesty not characteristic of either frauds nor hallucinated persons, makes record of his error. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smith, 11, 52-54.) The delivery of the plates to Joseph and the placing upon him of the responsibility of their care and use was a striking miracle. This miracle was in fulfilment of the miracles of knowledge recorded in Psalm 85:11 and Book of Mormon, Mormon 8:16. An immortal being, who could enter and leave a room with openings closed, as the resurrected Jesus did, hands those plates, earth material, over to Joseph; in this miracle is indicated the marvelous versatility of the power of re-embodied or resurrected beings. The translation of the plates was one of the most extended miracles of record. The visions of Moses and the revelations of John the Revelator are short in comparison with the production of the Book of Mormon, a work which required the aid of the superhuman at every step. As conclusive evidence of the helplessness of human beings to make progress alone in the task, one needs but to read Doctrine and Covenants, Section 3, where again is seen the honesty and humility of Joseph Smith. With dauntless courage he gives to the world the word of the Lord that almost pitilessly puts him under condemnation. Impostors do not publicly condemn themselves. (See Doctrine and Covenants 10:1-4.) Testimony of the Three Witnesses a Miracle. The three witnesses whose testimony is published with the  ! Book of Mormon were partic: pants in a miracle. They witnessed a presentation of the plates by an angel of God, who came down from heaven, and they heard the voice of God declaring that the translation was by the gift and power of God. All this was superhuman evidence, knowledge unobtainable by any mortal means. And these witnesses never varied from their testimony; it was with them unchanged through life and held to at death. The testimony of the eight witnesses, while of an unimpeachable character, does not reach over into the realm of the superhuman, The miracle element entered into the making of the Book. Of Mormon history. The historians were men of God, inspired and prophetic. The guardianship and the delivery of the plates, and the profitable reading of the book is close to, if not within, the field of the miraculous. President Heber C. Kimball is quoted as having prophetically promised that a three-hours' honest-hearted reading of the Book of Mormon by a believer would cure any case of the "blues." The spiritual experiment has been tried many a time and no case of failure has been reported. The Book itself makes prayerfulness a prerequisite of a profitable reading of it. (See Moroni 10:4.) Heart-prayer is spiritual honesty, and how can anyone consistently expect to find truth from an untrue point of view? It is as impossible to find God's ways without God as it is to find nature's ways without nature. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Wherein is every revelation from God a miracle? 2. Describe the first miracle of "Mormonism" as it appears to you; (a) the place, (b) the time, (c) the events. 3. What needs were there for the first miracle of '""Mormonism'? (a) on earth? (b) in heaven? 4, What facts did the first miracle establish? (a) as to the reliability of the scriptures, (b) as to the prevailing idea of God, (c) as to the quality of existing religious institutions. 5. In the first miracle what was done that indicated the Father's acquaintance with Joseph Smith? 6. How did Moroni give evidence of knowing Jpseph before Joseph knew him? 7. In what particular was the second miracle of "Mormonism" an exceptional one? 8. Wherein was the translation of the plates a miracle? 9. Show that the possession of the plates was beyond the reach of human power.  10. Describe the miracle upon which the testimony of the three witnesses was based. 11. How may we account for the fact that some fair-minded persons speak of the Book of Mormon as good ethics while they discredit the manner of its coming forth? 12. "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." What one thing more could be said of a good painting of the Sacred Grove in a Latter-day Saint home? LESSON II Work and Business. SECOND WEEK IN DECEMBER LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in December) HYMNS WRITTEN BY WOMEN Many people know that women have contributed a goodly number of hymns, of great value, to the hymnals of Christendom; yet they do not know to what extent women have contributed, neither do they know that a large group of the most valued hymns have been written by women. It is the purpose of this lesson to discuss the points indicated in the introductory paragraph. From 1546, to very near the present day, 2,500 hymns have been written by women. A list of twelve well known hymns will indicate what some of these hymns are: "T Need Thee Every Hour," Mrs, E. P. Prentiss; "Nearer My God, to Thee," Mrs. Sarah Flower Adams: "Work for the Night is Coming," Annie L. Walker; "The Ninety and Nine," Elizabeth C. Clephane; "Over the River," Nancy W. Priest; "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep,' Mrs. Willard; "Flee as a Bird," Mrs. M. S. B. Dana; ''Peace, be Still," Mrs. M. A. Baker; "Sowing the Seed" (with the well known chorus, What shall the harvest be?), Mrs. Emily S. Oakey; "When the Mists have Rolled Away," Annie Herbert; "Nearer Home," Phoebe Cary; "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," Julia Ward Howe. Of these hymns the three most valued, perhaps, are 'Ninety and Nine," called by some people the greatest gospel hymn of our time; "Nearer My God to Thee," sung the world over by people of every Christian creed; and the "Battle Hymn of the Republic," valued for its Jofty tone and Christian patriotism.  An outstanding feature of hymns written by women is the fact that almost without exception they are filled with a deep sense of gratitude to Jesus, whom they paise as their Redeemer, their Savior from sin, the Author of eterfal life. This should be a source of satisfaction to all women, for in these hours of intellectual keenness, and sometimes spiritual darkness, we are all indebted to those persons who have become witnesses for Christ, in song or story, or through whatever medium the Holy Spirit prompts. Another reason why it is natural for women to praise Christ is that he exalted women. Throughout his min'stry, he placed her at man's side, where she belongs. He was throughout his life her champion, her sympathetic advisor and companion. It was she to whom he first revealed himself at the tomb and to whom he gave the commisssion that she should tell the brethren, his disciples, that the crucified Lord had become the risen Redeemer. The light of truth which Christ brought into the world to dispel the darkness of ignorance and error must always be the most potent of all factors for the exaltation of womanhood. One of the loftiest truths paid to woman in connection with her Redeemer is found in the lines of Elizabeth Barrett Browning: "Not she with traitorous kiss her Savior stung; Not she den'ed him with unholy tongue; She, while apostles shrank, could danger brave, Last at his cross, and earliest at his grave." The hymn, 'Ninety and Nine," written by Elizabeth C. Clephane, a native of Scotland, in the year 1864, was inspired by the Scriptural lines, "Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost." The author of "Nearer, My God, to Thee," Mrs. Sarah Flower Adams, was born in Cambridge, England, February 22, 1805. She has been but very slightly known to the great public who have cherished her lyrics as among its most sacred treasures for nearly half a century. Her father was the editor of a weekly Cambridge paper, and her mother was a woman of fine gifts and culture. She herself was the youngest child. She was noted in early life for the taste she manifested in literature, and in her maturer years for great zeal and earnestness in her religious life. At what time she wrote the world-famous hymn, "Nearer, My God, to Thee," is unknown, but, say her biographers, "it was probably during some period of peculiar trial when her spirit was uplifted through sorrow almost beyond its earthly body." The hymn was first published in 1841, in a volume of sacred lyrics issued  by Mr. Fox of England, just eight years before the death of the author, who passed beyond in her forty-fifth year. Mrs, Adams visited America just before her hymn was first written. Besides being an author she also composed music consdered good in England. Her works have been collected and edited. At the time of her death she did not suspect that she had written one of the first of Christian hymns, a hymn that takes its place with "Rock of Ages," "A Mighty Fortress is My God" and other hymns recognized as greatest in Christian hymnology. Julia Ward Howe,. Author of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," was born in Bowling Green, New York City, in 1819. Her early years showed unusual talent for writing both in prose and verse. At seventeen she was a valued contributor to the New York Magazine, a well known periodical at that time. She early developed musical talent and was urged by her instructors to devote herself to composing music. She had a musical voice and dramatic ability that won her high rank among the amateurs of her time. Her father was a man of wealth and culture, drawing into the home the most eminent mus'cians and literary connoisseurs, so that Mrs. Howe had practically every advantage for self improvement that those early days afforded. In 1843 she was married to Dr. Samuel Howe, a prominent reformer. While abroad a year or two after her marriage she gave birth to a daughter christened Julia Romania in remembrance of her birth in Rome. After her return from Europe she became much interested in the slavery question, and in 1845, "Words for the Hour" was pttblished, which was her second volume of poems published, the first being issued under the title of "Passion Flower." It was during the Civil war that she wrote her world-famous poem, "The Battle Hymn of the Republic." The following account of the writing of this hymn is given by her biographer in Famous Women:?'When our land was stained with the blood of its defenders, and the war bugles rang through the country, her voice took up the cry and echoed back a war pean grand enough for the march of the Republic to its greatest conquest, the victory of self. It has been unjustly attributed by some to Chaplain McCabe, because he sang it so frequently after it came out, while he was doing noble work among the boys in blue. Here is the circumstance that inspired the writing of it. In company with her husband and a party of ladies and gentlemen she made a memorable visit to the Capital of the United States during the war. In company with friend, at a review of troops, an interruption was caused by movements from the enemy. Re'nforcements were sent to a party of soldiers that had been surrounded and the review  was abandoned for the day. The carriage containing Mrs. Howe and friends moved slowly along, surrounded by armed men. Among other things she sang 'John Brown Song' in her rich melodious voice, which much' pleased and inspired her hearers. She then expressed a desire to write better words for that soulstirring tune, remarking that she feared that she would never be able to accomplish it. "She retired to rest that night full of thoughts of battle, and awakening in the gray dawn next morning, she sprang from her bed, seized her pen and paper and in a few moments the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic' was completed. As she finished it, she exclaimed: 'I like that better than anything I have ever written'." She lived to be nearly one hundred years of age, passing to her reward Oct. 17, 1910. Four children survived her; the eldest daughter died before her mother's death. It should be a source of great pride and satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints that their women have kept pace with the gifted women of the world in their contribution of hymns to the hymnology of their people. Time will give to the women of latter-day Israel, who have written hymns of high order, the recognition they so justly deserve. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Use the three hymns "Ninety and Nine," "Nearer, My God, to Thee,' and "Battle Hymn of the Republic" for the music of the meeting, as far as possible. If it is impossible for you to have these hymns stung, for any reason best known to you, have them read. 2. Have someone give the scriptural account of the lost sheep., 3. To what events of history does Elizabeth Barrett Browning refer when she writes of woman, "Last at his cross and earliest at his grave." 4. What tragic occurrence, within the last twelve years, brought the hymn "Nearer, My God, to Thee," into new prominence, all over the world? 5. Namea song written by a woman, during the world's war that gained great popularity?  \ LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) LATEP ADOLESENCE The period from eighteen to twenty-five years of age is known as later adolescence. In many respects it resembles the period of early adolescence, (13 to 18 years of age). The interest in the opposite sex is the dominant one. The feeling of independence or self-sufficiency is also strong in this period. The difference between the earlier and the later period is a matter of degree of physical and mental development and of the widening of experience and responsibility. We do not, for example, expect the boys and girls of the early adolescent period to engage in courtship, although they may be interested in the opposite sex as much as are those of later adolescence; nor do we want the youth of the early period to carry heavy responsibilities, although they may feel entirely capable of doing anything which father or mother. Can do. The difference, therefore, is not in the nature of their interest or in their ambition, or in the faith which they have in their own ability to know and to do things. The whole adolescent period is essentially one of growth, accompanied by the consciousness of new interests, new powers, and a feeling of self-sufficiency. The difference is essentially a matter of increased responsibility which the added years bring about. The New Responsibilities The young man who has reached the period of adolescence is confronted with vital problems which must soon be solved. He must now choose his life's companion. He must settle upon his life's vocation. He has the task of determining upon his political party, and the part he is to play in the great social world. All these and many other questions are daily placed before h-m. Some of these he may settle definitely, but others may be left as unsettled problems until later life. The success he attains in dealing with these questions will depend upon his natural judgment and his educational and social opportunities. Judgment and Thought It is very certain that there is no period in the lives of individuals when they receive such stimulation for thought as dur-  ing this period between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. We note that this is the time when the young people are doing their senior high school and college work. Those who are not in school should be stimulated to think and pass judgment upon the practical questions which are every day imposed upon them. Books, magazines, and the daily papers are available, and should tend to develop thought.. There is no longer an excuse for ignorance among the young people. The trouble, therefore, is not so much the lack of opportunities, although we must admit all young people do not have the same educational and social privileges, but it is a matter of getting them to make use of the opportunities which come to them. Above all it is a matter of getting them to use the experience and thought power which they possess. They need to apply more of the ordinary common sense, to use their judgment more and their impulses less, in solving the common yet vital problems that will present themselves. The Most Vital Problem of Later Adolescence Whether viewed from the standpoint of the individual's welfare, or that of the family, or society, or even the race, the question of selecting one's life companion is jthe most important problem of this period. As Latter-day Saints we view the problem as a sacred, religious obligation. The blessings of eternity are very closely linked to the principle of marriage. It is, therefore, very proper that courtship should not be carried on until men and women are sufficiently mature to realize its meaning. The early adolescent period, with its impulses and uncertainties, is not suitable to solve so important a problem. Even later adolescents seem not to view the problem with the seriousness which it deserves. The strong emotional elements which dominate this sacred relation between young men and young women make rational direction extremely difficult. "Love," writes the late Professor Henderson of the University of Chicago, "has illusions, for it idealizes its object; transforms the shallow, pretty girl into a creature of majesty and character; it catises a mean scamp to loom up in the brilliant fancy of a girl, in a mist magnified a thousand diameters, of moral greatness." In Shakespeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream" the queen, under the spell of a magic potion, loved a donkey. ? Nor are the conventional standards and customs more inducive to reflective control of courtship than are the blind instinctive emotions. In a recent number of the Utah High School Journal, we read the following description of courtship in our communities: ''The boy of eighteen is expected to make life in-  teresting for the girl of his choice. He is expected to talk about nothing of a serious nature. He is expected to reveal but ? one side, the humorous side. Should he talk about his business or his farm interests, he is too practical and unromantic. If he says a word about his political aims, he is too ambitious; if he talks much about religion, he is considered fanatical; and if he dares to reveal his conception of an ideal home, he is getting serious and will likely lose his suit. It is better for him to be a clown than a gentleman. "The girl is expected not to take seriously anything that he says. She must laugh at everything he tells her. * * * Parents are not generally expected to associate intimately with young people during this period, and that individual known as a chaperon is very unpopular in most circles of young people." The attitude here described has developed simply because parents and community leaders have treated the subject with too much levity. According to Coffin even "domestic infelicities serve as one of the standard subjects of the joke-smith, in the funny column and in the Sunday supplement of the daily press." A whole attitude toward this subject is well expressed by Tennyson: "To lead sweet lives in purest chastity, To love one maiden only, cleave to her, And worship her by years of noble deeds, Until they won her; for indeed I know Of no more subtle master under heaven Than is a maiden passion for a maid, Not only to keep down the base in man, But teach high thought, and amiable words, And courtliness, and the desire of fame, And love of truth, and all that makes a man." _ SUGGESTIVE READING E. A. Kirkpatrick: The Individual in the Making, Chapter 9. Henderson: Social Duties, pp. 22-22. Halt: _A Practical Sociology, Chapter 18. QUESTIONS 1. In what respect does later adolescence differ from early adolescence? In what respect are the natural interests of these periods the same?  2. 'Show that the ages from 18 to 25 are the years when young people are actually engaged in reflective thought. 3. Do the subjects of religion and courtship receive the thoughtful consideration which they deserve? If not, explain why they do not. 4. Show that honest, scientific pursuits do not lead to disbelief of jtrue religion. 5. Give your reason to support the position that faith in the gospel is based upon reflective thought as well as upon the feelings. ' 6. Give reasons to show that the problem of selecting a life's companion requires more than emotional or sentimental consideration. 7. What effect does the common habit of parents joking about matters of love have upon the minds of young people? 8. Show that the subject af courtship may properly be considered in religious meetings. 9. What are the customs of courtship in your own community? Has the Church any rule or discipline on the subject? 10. What can ibe done ot produce a purer, more sober and rational custom in the neighborhood? How do we deal with immoral men and women in the community? TEACHERS' TOPIC (December ) The mission of the Savior. Love and Service. "God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life." John 3:16. "Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another." John 4:11. Christmas giving and Christmas greetings are forms of loving service. Let them be genuine, unselfish acts of love and good will. In this connection note: 'God loveth a cheerful giver." IT Corinthians 8:7. "Tt is more blessed to give than to receive." Acts 20:35. Books of the Bible in Verse In Genesis the world was made by God's creative hand; Jn Exodus the Hebrews marched to gain the Promised Land; Leviticus contains the Law, holy, just and good; Numbers records the tribes enrolled-?all sons of Abraham's blood; Moses, in Deuteronomy, records God's mighty deeds; Brave Joshua into Canaan's land the host of Israel leads; In Judges their rebellion oft provokes the Lord to smite; But Ruth records the faith of one pleasing in his sight. In First and Second Samuel of Jesse's sons we read; Ten tribes in First and Second Kings revolted from h's seed. The First and Second Chronicles see Judah captive made; But Ezra leads a remnant back by princely Cyrus' aid. The city wall of Zion Nehemiah builds again; While Esther saves her people from the plots of wicked men. In Job we read how faith will live beneath affliction's rod, And David's Psalms are precious songs to every child of God, And Proverbs like a goodly string of choicest pearls appear; Ecclesiastes teaches men how vain are all things here; The Song of Solomon exalts sweet Sharon's Rose, While Christ, the savior and the king, the rapt Isaiah shows. The warning Jerem'ah apostate Israel scorns; His plaintive Lamentations their awful downfall mourns. Ezekiel tells in wondrous words of dazzling mysteries; While kings and empires yet to come Daniel in vision sees. Of judgment and of mercy Hosea loves to tell; Joel describes the blessed days when God with men shall dwell. Among Lekoa's herdsmen Amos received his call While Obadiah prophesies of Edom's final fall; Jonah enshrines a wondrous type of Christ, our risen Lord; Micah pronounces Judah lost?tost, but again restored. Nahum declares on Ninevah just judgment shall be poured; A view from Chaldea's coming doom Habakkuk's visions give; Next Zephaniah warns the Jews to turn, repent and live. Haggai wrote to those who saw the temple built again, And Zechariah prophesied of Christ's triumphant reign. Malachi was the last that touched the high prophetic chord; Its notes sublimely show the coming of the Lord.?Anon. Past and Future Marian A. Gudmundsen Relief Society! Ah, well art thou named! Thy mission has ever been one of succor; Comfort and cheer have been thy watchwords; To minister unto the afflicted, to bind up the broken hearted, To aid the needy and distressed in all the land. Skilful have been the hands of thy workers, To fashion fabrics into useful forms. Industry and thrift have characterized thy members; Self-supported hast thou ever been, independent, Giving thine assistance freely without return. Not pleasure, but "pleasure in duty" has been thy motto, And when the work of thy hands was comp'eted Thou hast not given thyself to idle recreation; But ever hast thou turned thy mind to study. For wisdom and knowedge has thou sought, In good books and in counsel together. To what, then, shall we liken thee? To a colony of ants, toiling indefatigably; To a hive of bees gathering the golden honey Of wisdom, and from thy precious store, Sweeteriing the daily life of all around thee. This has been thy history?one long labor of love. And were this to compass thy destiny, It were enough to send thy fame ringing down the ages. But grander yet awaits thee; Thou shalt in time to come assist in freeing woman. From all restraining shackles which yet encircle her about; Conventions, prejudices, senseless fashions, And all that seems to raise her up, but holds her down, Preventirig her from gaining and adorning The loftier summits of a nobler womanhood. Thou shalt encourage, strengthen, lead her Along the steep and thorny path which she must c'imb To grander realms of thought, a broader vision, A wider scope of. Action, clearer light. Then since the woman is the great regenerative power, Uplifted and renewed the race inevitably must be. Thus, with thy fellow organizations, As auxiliaries and aids unto the priesthood, Still must thou labor for the right, The spread of truth, the welfare of the whole, To usher in the great mi'lennial day. To social motherhood thou wilt yet attain, Continuing the relief of physical distress; Relief of moral suffering, social wrong, thou then wilt undertake. Humanity calls upon thee to relieve the crushing burden Of dire oppression and injustice which doth weigh it down. Then, here, upon thy glorious natal day, Whilst thou lookest back with joy and: pride Upon the toilsome path which thou hast climbed, Forget not upward still to cast thine eye To heights thou yet shalt scale, and gaining, Make clear the way for all who watch thy progress, Earth's mighty sisterhood, who must follow in thy steps. THE HOUSE OF FINE FURS We specialize in high grade Fur Repairing and Remodeling Our fur manufacturing department is equipped with the most modern and scientific fur making machines, our furrriers bring long years of exaE perience to -your service. <_< aaa Write about your furs if not in the Salt Lake City, Utah city. Cleanliness is the first requisite to health. Buy no food that is not clean and not surrounded with immaculate cleanliness. We invite you to inspect our Market, our Goods and our methods of doing business. DICKINSON'S The right weigh. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES No ovecharge. No short-weight. No cold-storage goods, No discourtesy, No substitution. No disappointment. All sales are fully guaranteed. Free weekly merchandise distribution to our Customers, > Let us be helpful in planning your meals. Squabs furnished on short notice. Hyland 60. Free Delivery 680 East 2nd South. PRESENT MOTHER WITH A BOUND VOLUME OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 'Following are the ores we have on hand: 12 vols: of 1915, cloth bound $1.75 1 vol. Of 1918, leather bourd -.....020222 200 2 vels. Of 1919, cloth bound 2.75 I vol. Of 1919, leather bound _.....02.0 3.00 6 vols. Of 1920, cloth bound ?....0002202022-.----. 2.75 10 vols. Of 1920, leather bound ~........02.........-... 3.00 15c Extra for postage All orders should be addressed <0 the Relief Society Magazine, Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. TO AGENTS Please commence at once to take subscriptions for 1923. This will insure subscribers a copy of the January Number. Start Where You Are If you are ever to succeed, you must do it by starting from where you are. Success is won a step ata time. Each day must show progress. Promotion comes because you have made yourself more valuable? have proved that you are able to handle large responsibilities, The record of our graduates proves that our training is practical, that it fits you for a desirable place in business, that it gives you knowledge and sharpens your ability in a manner that not only enables you to take advantage of opportunities but to create them. Join us next Monday. L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City, Utah anesoneooneesavaya All the Year Day and Evening CEST By TEST" Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS.3223 - P.0.80X:17/3: * SALT LAKE CHY APage for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have. Special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Columbus, Westward ho! A NEW BOOK By Alice Merrill Horne <mNGE of beautiful books FOR HOME an historic drama, written and designed in the GIFT. Atmosphere of romance and the spirit of adver'ur: LIBRARY which characterized the Columbian reric 2. SCHOOL with Address 333 eret News Press, Ouray Ave., Salt Lake CityAn aristic and charming home production $1.75 Ten three-colored illustrations by Florence Ware, D: s- Was. 912 ar | Was. 912 | al Releetsp, 2 ae: tee ? evivatio? A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 | 251-257 East First South Street. | Was, 912 Mention Religf Society Magasine S. M. TAYLOR, President A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. FOOD PRODUCTS For the dainty spread?or a regular meal?you need only a few minutes in which to prepare PIERCE'S PORK AND BEANS. A savory satisfying meat that will both surprise and delight with its delicious goodness. PIERCE'S is the dependable ally of the resourceful housewife. TRY PIERCE'S TOMATO CATSUP. Try It ? No Obligation Use it for thirty days?then decide. We offer you the use of one of our Clark Jewel Lorain Gas Ranges for thirty days in your home. If, at the end of this period, you do not like it, we will take it back without expense to you. Utah Gas & Coke Gompany GEO. R. HORNING, Gen. Mer. Mention Relief Society Magasine 351 So. Main Was. 705 SVE XO QTL XT QHYUI HIINS WKH ANIITOUND saw DUNUXAA BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL, For Every L. D. S. Family You can now buy the purest FRENCH Olive Oil under the Blue Pine label. Blue Pine Olive Oil is heavy in butter-fat-content ?which makes it nourishing food. It is free from acid and you can drink the contents of a bottle at one time without distressing effects. For Church purposes the best should be used. You can rely on Blue Pine Olive Oil as the very best procurable. Use it freely for sickness, household purposes and Church ordinances. Be sure you get the genuine BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL?an extra cork with every bottle. 3 SIZES 4-8-16 oz. BOTTLES Seowcrott MADE IT!