[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | May | Issue: 12 | Title: Birthday Gathering | Author: Unknown]

BIRTHDAY GATHERING.

The nineteenth of April ult., was the
81st anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Margaret Pierce Young, wife of President
Brigham Young, and herself a pioneer of
1847, coming into the valley in the famous
company that followed the pioneers in May
1847, and located the “Old Fort” on Pio-
neer Square. Her father and mother, Bro-
ther and Sister Pierce, also brought with
them in company with their daughter Mar-
garet, Sister Eliza R. Snow, companion for
Sister Margaret, her own sister Mary hav-
ing died in Winter Quarters.
Margaret P. Young was born in and
reared in Chester Co., Penn, of Quaker par-
entage and still retains much of that native
simplicity of manner and speech always no-
ticable and pleasing. Aunt Margaret as
she is familiarly called by those who know
her intimately, is still active in mind and
body, and is fond of company and of society
and able to do her own cooking and enjoys
household employments. She is also a work-
er in the Salt Lake Temple.
The evening of her birthday, about forty
or fifty guests, relatives and friends assem-
bled at the residence of her son, Elder B.
Morris Young (by invitation), Sister Young
has resided, since leaving the famous “Lion
House” where she spent most of her life,
in the house with her son; the rooms were
all opened for the occasion and prettily dec-
orated with flowers and plants. Among the
guests were President Joseph F. Smith, Dr.
Seymour B. Young, President Frank Y.
Taylor, Bishop Millen C. Attwood, Patri-
arch McGee, Elders Louis Kelch, George
Crismon and Counselor Noah S. Pond of
Pocatello Stake and other brethren. Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith of the general
Relief Society, Sisters Julina L. and Edna
L. Smith Amelia F. and Lizzie Riter
Young, Annie Taylor Hyde and several
other sisters, old friends and true, and many
other women. There was some good music
interspersed with conversation which was
mostly of a reminiscent character, old times
and doings of other days.
Sister Margaret was the recipient of a
number of presents and of many warm con-
gratulations and good wishes for years to
come. The feeling of genuine hospitality
was delightful and the coming together of
old friends is always a sort af inspiration
and the hours flew swiftly by. The refresh-
ments prepared and served by Sister Ar-
meda S. Young were delicious, and the


geniality of spirit that characterized the
whole affair was restful and most enjoyable.
The writer on her own account and as ed-
itor of this little paper adds her congratula-
tions and good wishes, having known Aunt
Margaret intimately for many long years
and in joy and in sorrow has always found
her the same loyal friend.


[Column 1]
