Fisher Towers are about twentyfive miles up the river from the Moab bridge over the Colorado River in Eastern Utah. The road winds along the edge of the river with massive cliffs pushing in from both sides, and the great river and the tiny road pressed close together between them. At last the cliffs fall back and the road winds through Professor Valley, revealing towering figures grouped together around even taller monoliths, which seem to be lecturing to the audience of stone. Side roads take off once in a while toward the distant high, blue crags of the LaSal Mountains. Then comes the road to Fisher Towers. It climbs for about a mile to an area of broken cliffs, and the first close view of the deep, narrow towerlike pinnacles. Here the road ends. The road has to end here, for the land ahead is so broken and twisted that even a foot trail was difficult to make. Page 516 We followed the trail and were amazed as we went arcund the first ledge. Ahead was a semicircular area where great cliffs climbed toward the sky. The cliffs were almost straight up and down, yet delicately carved like a great pattern of crinkle crepe cloth. Deep red clay had washed down over the monuments in a tapestry effect, creating a thousand patterns. The trail follows the base of the great straight cliffs, going around the edge of the circular valley and on to the next circular valley. The first seems beautiful until you see the second, and it seems the most magnificent there could be until you see the third, and so it is until the end of the trail. The tops of the cliffs are pointed and spired like the tops of great Gothic cathedrals, and again they change pattern with each change of view. One wall looks as high as a twenty-story building and narrows to about ten feet in thickness as it juts out to form the partition between two circular valleys. The _ great cliffs keep their crinkle crepe and tapestry pattern, though they change in form at every step. And the sky behind them turns deep blue in contrast with the deep red of the cliffs. It is a blue you see only when red cliffs stand out against the sky. HE view below is as interesting as the view above. At the trail level there is a sharp change, and the circular valleys are filled with FISHER TOWERS Willard Luce 517 FISHER TOWERS The slab at the left is ten feet wide at one end and not much wider in its entire length—the height of a twenty-story building. Strange, rounded, goblin shapes. Thin, long tongues of land reach out over the weird rounded forms in places, with the edges of these tongues of land eroded into rounded toadstool shapes, dropping away into canyons filled with more round, red forms. Figures and silhouettes are everywhere. A Mexican sleeps under a wide sombrero; a pioneer mother has children clinging to her fluted hoop skirt. A Buddha sits in solemn contemplation next to a goblin face. A circle of braves writhe im a war dance around a frozen stone fire. A few more steps, and the change of viewpoint changes them all into other forms. And so it is as the trail goes on and on, gradually up and up. Then as you come back down the two miles of trail, the different viewpoint makes it all seem new again. Beyond the round, red goblin figures is an even more wonderful view of Professor Valley, with the Colorado River small against the bluffs in the distance. In another direction you get occasional glimpses of Onion Creek, which drains the Fisher Tower region. Even from the distance the creek looks crystal clear, but its waters are poisonous, containing arsenic. Fisher 'Towers were named after a homesteader who settled on Onion Creek. His farm is on up past the narrow twisting gorge which cuts (Continued on page 567) S: txty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1892 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL Nations" WOMAN'S WORK: What is it! When did it begin; when will it end? What is the object and ultimate reward? Our minds must travel back to the time when the earth was new and fresh and fair from the hands of its Creator. When man was placed upon it then woman was quickly by his side, herself the fairest of all and her influence was quickly felt for good or evil; but it was when mother Eve heard the cry. Of her firstborn... That woman's work really began.—Phebe C. Young WELCOME (Old Folks' Reunion at Payson, June 29, 1892) Ye who bear the silver crown Of a life complete with age, Ye whom wisdom gives renown By her long-life heritage; Old folks everywhere held dear, Filled with years three score and ten, Welcome, yea thrice welcome here, Honored guests of honored men. LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING, 14th Ward: Counselor E. Stevenson said: "We can't live too near the Lord in these times, the good things we hear should be put into daily practice, we should cease to speak evil of one another, and learn the lesson of charity; be guarded in all our sayings, we know that our lives are full of trials".... President Horne made closing remarks, exhorting the sisters to be faithful and diligent in all their duties, that they might receive the blessings promised. A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY: Spain and America have been exchanging civilities on the occasion of the anniversary of Columbus setting sail from Palos on his voyage of discovery four hundred years ago on the third of August.... The day was celebrated in Spain with appropriate festivities.... The women of America cannot be too mindful of what they owe to that noble Queen, who so generously aided in the enterprise which has given to us... "this choice land above all other lands." It would seem as though the women of America ought to do something magnificently permanent to perpetuate the memory of this singularly estimable and heroic Queen.... But for Isabella's personality in the adventurous enterprise of Columbus he could never have set sail from Spain.... A woman's courage inspired Columbus to do and dare, all honor to Isabella—Editorial OBSERVATION: Strictly, no two persons can see the same thing in the same way, for it can never happen that two persons have precisely the same groups of ideas relating to any subject. These depend on our past experience, on our education, on the belief of our times, on our various sects or parties, on our pet theories, our interests, and our desires. Did we but bear this in mind how many quarrels and disputes might be saved. How modest we should be in condemning, how careful in counseling.—Selected Page 518 MBS. ANNE C. MILNE, Utah's oldest citizen, at 103 years, was crowned queen of the Old Folks Day celebration June 25, at Liberty Park, Salt Lake City. RS. RUTH MAY FOX, former "president of the Young Wom- ~en's Mutual Improvement Association, now ninety-eight years old, requested to write a song for the June conference, revised one that she had written two years ago, "In Triumph We Shall Sing." Professor Crawford Gates composed the music. T the biennial convention of the National Federation of Business and Professional ~ Women's Clubs, Inc., three women correspondents were presented by Judge Sarah T. Hughes, federation president, with a bronze medal and plaque, each bearing the inscription "Distinguished Service Award." One was Salt Lake's own Charlotte Knight, daughter of Mrs. Raymond S. Knight, correspondent for Collier's. The others were May Craig, representing a chain of New England papers, and Marguerite Higgins, of the New York Herald Tnbune. JN admitting girls to Vassar, one of the oldest and best-known colleges for women in the United