Children Can Cook Melba S. Payne 6 'MOTHER, please just let me make some teeny weeny cookies all by myself." What mother has not heard this plea or one like it? Perhaps you felt like answering, "'Oh, run on and do something, but please leave mother alone." There are times in the life of every child when he wants to satisfy the urge to create something he can eat. Don't crush this inherent desire; encourage it. Even your little sons may grow up to be grateful someday because you taught them how to - do simple cooking. As for your daughter, you will be delighted with what she will be able to accomplish if you will but be patient. When she is able to make tasty casseroles, plain desserts, and cookies, you will be rewarded for your efforts. Begin first by teaching your children how to arrange an attractive salad, by using, for instance: lettuce and cottage cheese with pears, pineapple, or peach halves. Teach them how to scrub and dry the potatoes, then rub them slightly with shortening before putting them in the oven to bake. They can learn early how to wash rice and place it in the top of the double boiler. Write out recipes for even these simple things and include several kinds of salads and easy-to-make refrigerator dishes. Place these recipes in their own special box of recipes. Don't try to teach your child how to make a cake all at once. First you might 'try having him use various cake mixes to learn a few simple steps: how to combine dry ingredients with liquids; how to grease and fill the pans; how to. Set the oven temperature; and how to tell when a cake is done. After she has made a few cakes this way, give her a good plain recipe to follow exactly. Keep out of her way, yet be near in case you are needed. What if she does make a few mistakes? So do you, and don't be too hard on her for them, or she may acquire a dislike for the whole business of cooking. | Get a box of biscuit mix, and after your child has learned how to mix with liquid, then let her roll and cut the soft dough into little round mounds. The process of making buttermilk or baking powder biscuits from first to last will be much less frustrating to her, and she can say, as children love to say, "These are my very own." Above all, have patience, mother, patience, and you will soon discover that your children can cook. Es iG S