Winn ing S tory Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things Mary Ek Knowles MARY EK KNOWLES \ ' 7 WEN Sarah Delaney reached 'the bank, there were already long lines of people waiting before the four tellers' cages. Her dark eyes quickly counted each line and she chose the one closest because there were two people less. | | She told the boys: "Sit over there on those chairs against the wall." Eddie said, "But, Mama, it's such a big line." He looked up at her, his blue eyes and the shock of red hair that had escaped his helmet hat making him look so like his father that she had a sudden hurting inside sharper than the day Bert died. "Hurry, Mama," Matt said. "I'm tired." "I know, darling." This was Matt's first day out since he had measles, and his five-year-old face was thin, some of the baby roundness gone. There had been the long wait for the bus in the cold, and they still had to walk to the other end of town to buy shoes at CutRate Shoe Emporium. She bent down. "When Miss King drives us home maybe she will stop at Eddie's Diner, if her father isn't too tired." May King was her neighbor. She had told Sarah, "I have to take Dad to the doctor. If you're at the shoe store when I'm done, [ll drive you home." 'This would be a big break with the weather so bad. "You can each have a twentyfive-cent treat," she told the boys. They hugged her knees. "Oh, boy! Gosh, thanks, Mom." Then Eddie said, "Come on, Matt." She looked after them as they ran for a chair and sat stiffly on the edge. 'They were such wonderful boys. When Bert died eight months ago, ten-year-old Eddie had taken over as man. Of the house. He called for Matt at the nursery every day, and, when Sarah got home from the office, the table: was set for dinner and the kettle was boiling so she could have a cup of hot instant chocolate. Sarah couldn't afford fifty cents for a treat, but the boys had earned it. As she moved slowly along with the line, she looked at her weekly Page 19 20 paycheck, knowing where each penny of it was going. She had a good future at the law office, and she was going to night school to learn shorthand, but right now they lived from payday to payday with very little left over. And this paycheck was smaller, because she had had to lay off work for four days and take care of Matt. HE boys had to have good stout shoes. She hoped Cut-Rate could fit them. She finally reached the teller's window. 'The middleaged teller had sparse hair and his mouth turned down at the corners. He took her check, asked grouchily for identification, then, satisfied, counted out bills, then rechecked and counted again, acting as if his mind was on something else. 'Then he said shortly, "Next!" Sarah picked up the money, put it carefully i in her billfold. "All right, boys," she called. Outside, the snow had turned to a blizzard. She knelt, buttoned Matt's jacket to the top, fastened Eddie's cap under his chin, pulled her knit hat down over her dark hair. Five blocks in this! Maybe She should go to Anderson Shoe. She could telephone May at the doctor's office to meet them there. Then she remembered that the money she saved at Cut-Rate would buy the boys each two pairs of warm stockings. And the shoes were good. It was just that you waited on yourself, and the styles were last-season styles. "Come on," she said. "Let's go." Eddie took hold of her jacket, Matt clung to her hand, saul heads down, they walked north. The going was rough, and at the end of the third block, Sarah pulled them into a doorway. Matt was crying, "I'm cold, Mama. Let's go home. I don't want new shoes." She was cold, too. Her car coat had been meant for driving in a warm car. She saw their bus coming and almost weakened, then remembered that it would be a week before she could bring the boys from the suburbs where they lived into the city, and their shoes would not last another week. "We can get through this," she said gaily. "Let's pretend we are on our way to the North Pole, and the first one who gets there can put up the American flag and." "And the enemy is going to try and beat us there!'' Eddie entered into the fantasy. They covered the last two blocks in record time, and then they were in the warmth of the shoe store, and the boys were sitting on chairs, and she was hunting through the racks of shoes. She was in luck and found a sturdy, thick-soled pair of Shoes for each of them. Her heart yearned over a pair of overshoes to protect them, but that would have to wait until next month. It was when she went to pay the clerk that she found the extra ten dollars. While the clerk was wrapping the shoes she sat down and counted her money. The shoes were her only purchase, and she'd had only small change to begin with. She remembered how absent-minded the teller had been. He had given her ten dollars too much! "What's the matter, Sarah?" She looked up and May King was standing there, a blue scarf tied over her gray hair. "I have ten dollars more than I should have," Sarah said. "Good for you," May laughed FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY shortly. May had been a good neighbor to Sarah. She had been so kind when Matt was sick, sitting with him while Sarah went to the store, but there was a streak of hardness in her. May had never married. She talked constantly of her great romance with a Fred Dallas. She'd had to turn him down because her mother had a stroke, and none of the other brothers and sisters would take the responsibility. And now her eighty-year-old father had to be taken care of. "pur, of course, I can't keep it, May," she said. "Why not? The bank has a vault full of ten-dollar bills, and you certainly can use it." That was true. 'Ten dollars would buy many things. It would buy the overshoes, or she could give Dr. Swanson something extra. He had taken care of Bert during a year's sickness and had waited so patiently for his money. He had four small children. He could use ten dollars, and the bank certainly did have a vault full of money. And then, suddenly, she was a little girl and mother was telling her: "Honesty above all, Sarah. Don't take as much as a straight pin that doesn't belong to you." "Oh, I couldn't keep it, May!" "Why not?" May asked "Because it's not mine, and keeping it would be stealing." She suddenly remembered how cross the teller had been. Maybe he had a reason, a very sick wife or a mortgage note to pay. "The teller would have to pay the money out of his own pocket." "Well, that's his tough luck," May said. "He's paid to be ackeep it. I've got to take it back." "Suit yourself." May shrugged her shoulders. "But I can't wait. Dad's in the car and he's hungry and cross as a bear. But let me tell you, if I hadn't been such a softheaded fool." She went on and on telling the story May had told so many times before, how she had taken care of her sick parents and Ed and Jack and Shirley had just turned their backs on her, and so Fred had married another girl. Sarah looked after her neighbor as she walked out of the store, feeling sorry for her. May's father had told Sarah, "Fred was never in love with her. She just imagined it, and she has ruined her life thinking she missed her big chance." "Aren't we going with her?" Eddie asked. "No, son. The bank." Matt began to cry. Treat." "You'll get your treat, honey," she said. "I promise you." "Don't cry any more, Matt!" Eddie said sternly, but he, too, looked after May's plump figure. The five blocks back to the bank were cold and wet, the wind had risen and the icy pellets of snow peppered their faces, but they finally reached the bank. There was, thank goodness, no line to the middle-aged teller's window and she walked right up to him. She saw the name plate. "Thomas Eddrington." "Mr. Eddrington," she said, "when you cashed my check you made a mistake. You." "You should always count your I have to go back to "T want a 22 money before you leave the window." He shrugged his shoulders. She almost turned on her heel and stalked out. May was right. It was his headache, not hers. Her voice shook. "You gave me ten dollars too much." "Oh." His face turned red. He hastily counted through the bills in his till, compared the amount with figures on a sheet of paper. "Yes, 1 am ten short' Bat he didn't thank her. He almost snatched the bill from her hand. Sarah turned slowly and. Looked at her tired, patient little boys. "Now," she said with a brightness she did not feel, "now for that treat." "Td like a hamburger," Eddie said. "With French begged. In the Elite Lunch, Sarah ordered only root beer for herself, but she couldn't even drink that because she was suddenly nauseated, remembering the way the teller had acted. He could have said, "Thank you." Maybe May was right and she was a big fool. Fries!"" Matt HEN they arrived home it was almost dark. She fixed hot chocolate for the boys, read to them, and, finally, they were in bed. There was a knock at the door. It was May. She held out a pan of freshly baked cinnamon buns. "Thought you might enjoy them," she said. Sarah knew it was her way of apologizing for not waiting to drive them home. "Why, thank you," Sarah said. May asked, "Did the teller say, "Thank you, kind, honest lady?' " "No." Disappointment and anger washed over Sarah. "He acted as if it were my fault." "Was he a bald-headed man, sour looking?" May's eyes narrowed. "Thomas Eddrington?" "Why, yes, that was his name." May laughed. "And you dragged your little boys five blocks through a blizzard to give him ten dollars. Thomas Eddrington is a bachelor. He learned to play the stock market, how to invest his money. Why, he owns two buildings downtown. He owns an apartment." "Then why is he working in a bank?" "Because he loves money. He likes to handle it, count it, earn more, even that small salary. Besides he hasn't anything else to do." May added wryly, "He needs that ten dollars like he needs another row of toes! "Listen, Sarah," May said. "You're all alone now, and you've got two boys to support. You have to be a bit more clever, a bit more ruthless than the next guy, or you will get stepped on. Believe me, Sarah, I know. If only I'd told my brothers and sisters, 'Mother and Dad are your responsibility. I'm going to marry the man I love.'"' Her neighbor looked so miserable, so unhappy, that, even as upset as Sarah was, she said a little prayer for wisdom to show May that she had served a wonderful, useful life caring for her elderly parents. Tomorrow she must make her see that she was blessed, that she would be more blessed as time went on! "Stop being a sucker," May finished, a gentleness in her voice. After May had gone, Sarah leaned against the closed door and cried quietly, tears sliding down her cheeks. She cried because she FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY missed Bert's arms around her, because she was afraid of the responsibility of rearing her two sons, because the code by which she had been reared wasn't good any more. How could she teach them what was right when she didn't know what was right any more! But most of all she cried because she was disillusioned. She had done the right thing, the honest thing, but it had turned out to be a foolish thing. After awhile she stopped crying and went through the automatic movements of finishing the dishes. She heard Matt cough. She went into the bedroom to cover him up. Eddie was asleep, the covers thrown off. She covered him, kissed him lightly on the forehead. He had left his light on. She walked over to turn it off and saw his "Captain's Log," as he called it, open on the stand. BERT had known he was dying. He had spent a lot of time talking to the boys. He had told Eddie, "Being a man is a big job, but it doesn't happen all at once. Each day you learn something that helps you when you are a man." And he had given Eddie a large journal. "This is like a Captain's Log on a ship. Each night the captain writes what has happened during the day, and every night you must write down what you have learned during your day." Toward the end Bert had told Sarah, "I seem to talk in platitudes: 'Good is rewarded — As the twig is bent so the tree grows..." things like that. But there is much I want 23 to teach the boys, and there is so little time left. I don't know if 'm getting through to them." Sarah had never read Eddie's journal. She respected his privacy, but here it was open and her eyes skimmed lightly over what he had written. Systematically he had numbered his day's findings, writing in a careful, childish hand: 1. It takes a long time for the bus to come in winter. 2. New shoes make me feel taller. 3. The hamburger man liked cooking for us. He was happy we ate every bit. Sarah smiled fondly, surprised and pleased that Eddie had had the insight to know that the hamburger man enjoyed watching them eat his cooking. And then she read No. 4, and for a moment the words blurred through her tears. She brushed them away and read again, going sick inside thinking back to the moment when she had almost gone with May, unaware that all she did and said was being taken as gospel because she said and did them. "No. 4," Eddie had written, "If you have something that belongs to someone, take it back, even if you have to walk five blocks and it's snowing and your boys are crying. Because it doesn't belong to you and you have to give it back, even if somebody else says keep it, don't be a sucker." And he had added, capitalizing each word, "