Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" GREETINGS TO RELIEF SOCIETY: With the dawn of this New Year's day I send greetings to the noble band of Relief Society workers throughout the world. Let forgiveness and charity be our bond. Let love and cleanliness and order rule in every home... Seek to bind your society with hoops of love and union. Let no harsh words pass our lips, nor yet any envious nor unkind thought entcr our hearts.... Be not carried away with vain social pleasures and foolish fashions of the hour. Make yourselves beautiful; be gentle and womanly.... I feel that I have been blest in my labors while ministering to the sick and unfortunate and have experienced much joy in Relief Society work, and I feel to promise similar blessings to those who lovingly and faithfully take up a part of this labor. —Bathsheba W. Smith President of the Relief Society in all the world. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SALT LAKE STAKE: President M. I. Horne spoke upon the duties of the Relief Society members. Keep from evil thoughts or actions, pay tithing and attend our meetings.... Sister Annie T. Hyde felt Relief Society work is a sacred responsibility on every officer and member.... President B. W. Smith said she was very young when she became acquainted with the Prophet Joseph; that she had a strong testimony of his mission before she ever saw him and was always anxious to hear him speak.... She was at the organization of the Relief Society. Sister M. W. Wilcox was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, had often heard him speak. —Conference Report ONE WOMAN'S PRAYER Of all the gifts we may enjoy, there's one We most desire; the gift of Love! And then — So loving all Thou hast created — give us Power to help Thee save the souls of men! —Ixion THE NEW YEAR, 1902:... The pioneers who sought out this resting place were not only great in pioneering and colonizing, but they were also in the best and truest sense pioneers for the establishment of truth upon the earth; the builders of Temples and sanctuaries in which to worship God.... And now the children and grandchildren... Are in possession of the fullest freedom and liberty ever enjoyed by any body of people... And let us hope and pray that they may hold it so sacredly, and stand firmly for equity and truth, maintaining the rights bequeathed to them from the fathers.... —Editorial UTAH WRITERS:... One of our best prose and poetical writers is Augusta Joyce Crocheron.... She excels where thought is required and elegant expression.... Emily H. Woodmansee is one of the most gifted and inspirational poets of Utah. Helen Mar Whitney and Lulu Greene Richards are poets, and both are classed among the spiritual and inspirational writers.... —Utah Woman's Press Club Report Page 24 ISS EVA B. ADAMS, a longtime Congressional aide and a former educator, has been appointed Director of the United States Mint. Miss Adams is a native of Wonder, Nevada, and a former dean of women at the University of Nevada. Her new duties will include supervision of the making of coins, the storage of gold and silver bullion, and transportation of bullion. ISS TOBY ELLEN SAKS, of New York City, a nineteenyear-old college student, was recently awarded first prize in the junior division of the third Pablo Casals Cellist competition in Tel Aviv, Israel. Thirty-one cellists, representing many nations, competed, and over 50,000 people attended the concerts. YNN BURKE, who has almost three hundred medals for swimming, has retired from competition. She won two Olympic medals in Rome in 1960, setting a world record of 1:09.3 for the 100-meter backstroke. But she wants to finish college and live a normal life. During the eleven months before the Olympics, she swam 1,300 hours, practicing. ""As a swimmer, I'm an old lady at eighteen," she comments.