EDITORIAL ——~S VOL She Multitude of the Promises. The people... Did wax strong... And were blessed according to the multitude of the promises which the Lord had made unto them (Fourth Nephi 10-11). OW that a New Year of promise is beginning, we have before us again the precious gifts of life and time. It is well for us to rejoice in our opportunities and our privileges, and to remember the steadfast promises which have been given to those who are willing to become "partakers of the heavenly word." In the book of Fourth Nephi, a scripture of but few words yet adorned with great promises and profound wisdom, we are told of the happiness and the blessings which came to the people during a long period of time in which they held the gospel as a light before them and as a guide for their footsteps... "and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God" (Fourth Nephi 16). Spiritual hope and a measure of spiritual serenity come to us when we realize that the principles of the gospel are eternal. All doctrine and all commandments have been given for our personal direction and for a guide to us in our family relationships, in our activities in the Church, and in our wider responsibilities of truly being the keepers of our brothers and sisters. It is well for us, and it is a source of strength and comfort to know that the more we discipline and develop ourselves and keep our bodies Page 26 and our spirits strong — so, in like measure, shall we be able to strengthen those around us. Not one among us can give to another that which he does not himself possess. Hope and faith and courage may be radiated, beautiful and warm as sunlight, from one who has cultivated well the blossoms of the spirit. As a circle of treasures within the home, each member of the family chastens and polishes his own immortal spirit and lends a glow to all the loved ones. The father in the circle of prayer expresses his gratitude for the household of faith, and the small voices, in different words, uplift themselves and others in prayer. Within the Church, in all its auxiliaries, in each organization, with its particular duties and responsibilities, the individual participant is blessed with spiritual growth, and in his relationship to others he may become indeed his brother's keeper. For a certain period of time, a person may be a learner and a listener within a group, and then he may be called to be a leader, and in both positions there is strength to be given and blessings to be received, in that fellowship of growth and accomplishment which Fourth Nephi speaks of as walking after the commandments "which they had received from the Lord." EDITORIAL Relief Society women find joy and fulfillment in strengthening themselves and yielding strength to others. At one time a woman may be a listener in the class; at another time she may be seated with her companions and deftly work her needle through the satin of a quilt; she may be at evening time in the quiet of her home studying the longlasting words of a poet whose work will be the subject of tomorrow's lesson. A Relief Society woman may go forth with her companion on errands of love and solicitude as a visiting teacher; later, the visiting teacher may become a president or a counselor in Relief Society, and 27 will possess the wisdom and devotion which her other callings have developed within her. In each and every calling, she will know that giving and receiving are but different facets of a treasure passed from hand to hand. She will know that spiritual gifts are not for one alone, but are most radiant and glorious when they are shared in the worldwide sisterhood. For us and all the world, the year is new. The commandments and the gospel, the promises, are old and everlasting. 'They are ours to receive and share as "heirs to the kingdom of God." —V. P. C. Zine. Beginning in February. Color Comes to Ynside Pages of the Relief Society Mlagazine The Relief Society General Board is happy to announce that color will be introduced in future issues of The beginning in the March issue. 'The Webb Offset printing press installed by the Deseret News Press makes this possible, but necessitates trimming slightly the margin width of the MagaThe General Board is also pleased to announce that eight additional pages will be added to each issue of the Magazine,