Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 39 — The Revelation to William W. Phelps Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants: Section 55) For Tuesday, April 3, 1962 Objective: move the kingdom of God forward. ANY men of exceptional talent joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints not long after its formal organization in the spring of 1830. The Lord knew the needs of the Prophet and the men who could help him most. Among those who had indicated a desire to join the Church at this early period was William Wine Phelps who will long be remembered by the saints because of his contribution to the hymnology of the Church. He made his impress upon the history of this dispensation in many other ways, however. According to the Prophet's journal, William W. Phelps and _ his family arrived in Kirtland, Ohio, about the middle of June 1831, as the Prophet was preparing for his first journey to Missouri. Because Mr. Phelps desired "to do the will of the Lord," the Prophet inquired of the Lord concerning him and the Page 50 To study the contribution of a talented Latter-day Saint who helped revelation (Section 55) for study in this lesson was received. (See D. H. C, 1:184-185.) Background of Section 55 William W. Phelps was in his fortieth year when he came to Kirtland. Before this he had been active in politics in New York State and | had been the editor of a newspaper for the Anti-Masonic Party. It was while thus employed in Canandaigua, New York, only a short distance from Palmyra, that he bought a copy of The Book of Mormon which had just come off the press With an intimate knowledge of the Bible, he and his wife compared it with The Book of Mormon. A few years later (1835), he wrote this about the influence The Book of Mormon had upon him: From the first time I read this volume of volumes, even till now, I have been struck with a kind of sacred joy at its LESSON DEPARTMENT title page. What a wonderful volume! What a glorious treasure! By that book, I have learned the right way to God; by that book I received the fulness of the everlasting gospel; by that book I found the new covenant; by that book I learned when the Lord had set his hand the second time to gather his people; by that book I learned that the New Jerusalem, even Zion was to be built upon this continent; by that book I found a key to the holy prophets; and by that book began to unfold the mysteries of God, and I was made glad. Who can tell his goodness, or estimate the worth of such a book? He only who is directed by the Holy Ghost in. All things; and has kept all his 4 commandments blameless through ife. [The above quotation, with other biographical material in this lesson, is taken from an unpublished thesis written by Walter Dean Bowen of the Church Seminary System. | William W. Phelps' conversion to the gospel through The Book of Mormon had given to him and his wife a desire to meet Joseph Smith. This was accomplished toward the end of December 1830. Of this event, Brother Phelps recorded his feelings as follows: Now, notwithstanding my body was not baptized into this church, yet my heart was here from the time I became acquainted with the Book of Mormon; and my hope, steadfast like an anchor, and my faith increased like the grass after a refreshing shower, when I for the first time held a conversation with our beloved brother Joseph who I was willing to acknowledge as a prophet of the Lord, and to whom, and to whose godly account of himself and the work he was engaged in, I owe my first determination to quit the folly of my way, and the fancy and fame of this world, and seek the Lord and his righteousness, in order to enter a_ better world Such was the impression made upon Brother Phelps by the Proph- 51 et. The way had been prepared, however, by the witness of the Holy Ghost to his soul. Section 55 Six months later, the Lord, by revelation, called upon Brother Phelps to be baptized. Significantly, he would not be chosen unless he was obedient to the commandment given. 'The Lord calls men, but only a relatively few are chosen because their thoughts and aspirations are upon the things of this world. The essential message of the gospel for the investigator is given in verse 1 of this revelation (D & C 55:1). Every convert receives a remission of sins by obedience to the commandment that his faith and repentance are sincere, with the intent that his act of obedience to baptism will be pointed to the glory of God. It is the Lord's work and glory to bring about the eternal life of man. Acceptance of the gospel requires that the person's efforts will be turned into furthering the Lord's work in every possible way. Another important truth is indicated in this verse when it is understood in its historical background. Brother Phelps had already received a testimony of The Book of Mormon by the Holy Ghost; yet, he was told that if he was baptized in the water the Holy Ghost would be given to him by the laying on of hands. Why was it necessary for Brother Phelps (and all converts) to receive this gift, if he had already received the Holy Ghost? The brief answer is as follows: the Holy Ghost which convinces the investigator of the truth will not remain with him unless baptism in water is accepted, and also the laying on of hands for 52 the gift of the Holy Ghost. Not until the authorized servant of God bestows this gift by the power of the Priesthood does the person have the "right" to retain the blessings of the Holy Ghost. (See lesson 32, "The Gifts of the Holy Ghost," , .) Phelps' Baptism There are probably many ways that the Lord has brought great persons of talent into his work. An understanding of some teachings of the gospel was a factor in the case of Brother Phelps, although he had already received the testimony of the Holy Ghost Of his conversion, he once wrote: I was not a professor at the time, nor a believer in sectarian religion, but a believer in God, and the Son of God, as two distinct characters, and a believer in sacred scriptures. I had long been searching for the "old paths," that I might find the right way and walk in it, and after a suitable time to investigate the work, and prove its truth by corresponding evidence from the old Bible, and by internal witness of the spirit, according to the rules of holiness, I embraced it for the truth's sake, and all honest men who seek a better world, will "go and do likewise'"' (Messenger and Advocate, I:115). Obedient to the revelation, Brother Phelps was baptized on June 16, 1831. Because of William W. Phelps' prominence in New York State, seyeral newspapers made note of his becoming a member of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A General Assignment Continuing the revelation, the promise is made that upon his baptism, Brother Phelps would be ordained an elder by Joseph Smith, and thus he would be able to preach repentance and baptism for the remission of sins. (See D & C 55:2.) Following this promise the revelation reads: And on whomsoever you shall lay your hands, if they are contrite before me, you shall have power to give the Holy Spirit (Ibid., verse 3). This promise to Brother Phelps was not intended for him alone, but it is a blessing which may be participated in by any worthy elder of this Church. In itself, it is an important truth. These following two facts are worthy of consideration: (1) By revelation in this day man may know that the power to bestow the Holy Ghost was never intended only for the Twelve Apostles appointed in the meridian dispensation; and (2) There is a way by which the elder may be able to see the evidence of his ministry in the lives of those whom he Serves. How would Elder Phelps be able to know, on the basis of verse 3 of this revelation, that he had not been deceived? As long as he worthily performed his duties as an elder and the person he confirmed a member of the Church had prepared himself with an "eye single to my [God's] glory," there should be manifest in the lives of those converts the fruits of the Spirit. The Lord promised many gifts of the Holy Ghost to the sincere believer. (See D & C 46:11, 26.) As these gifts were received and use made of them in healings, and other miracles, prophesyings, etc., the elder in the Church would be apprised of the power which he possessed as an elder. One may conclude that the LESSON DEPARTMENT steadfastness which Brother Phelps and many others demonstrated during their lives, aided by the Spirit, gave evidence of the promise given to faithful Priesthood bearers. Specific Calling The revelation addressed to William W. Phelps gave him an assignment which was suited to his special abilities. In these words, the Lord said: And again, you shall be ordained to assist my servant Oliver Cowdery to do the work of printing, and of selecting and writing books for schools in this church, that little children also may receive instruction before me as is pleasing unto me (D & C 55:4). This is the first time in the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants that mention is made of schools in the Church. It should also be noted that this revelation (verse 5) commands Brother Phelps to accompany the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon to the land of the saints' inheritance (Missouri), where he would undertake the work assigned him The last verse of Section 55 assigns Joseph Coe also to be a member of the company. A brief account of this journey is found in the Prophet's writings (D. H. C. 1:188). In Jackson County, Missouri (July 1831), the Lord gave to the Prophet a revelation in which Brother Phelps was to be established as a "printer unto the church" at that place. Important in this connection is that the position of printer in that period was much more than a pressman; it also included the responsibilities of editor. It is said of such men that they had great versa- 53 tility and knowledge. In Section 57 Brother Phelps is told to "obtain whatsoever he can obtain in righteousness, for the good of the saints" (verse 12). The Evening and Morning Star With the call to be the printer unto the Church and work with Oliver Cowdery in publishing books for the Church, Brother Phelps purchased a printing press at Cincinnati. With the establishment of this enterprise and the issuance of The Evening and Morning Star, a monthly publication, the first periodical of the Church, there was great joy for the saints, as the Prophet recorded that although the press universally had sought to harm us, "the Saints rejoiced that they [editors] could do nothing against the truth but for it" (D. H. C. 1:273). In this periodical appeared many of the revelations which are now found in The Doctrine and Covenants and also a chapter and parts of three other chapters of the Book of Moses. It was published from the period June 1832, until the destruction of the press on July 20, 1833, at which time the Book of Commandments, the first compilation of revelations, consisting of sixty-five chapters, was being printed. (In 1835, The Evening and Morning Star was re-established in Kirtland, Ohio, with Oliver Cowdery as editor.) The first issue of the Star informed its readers that its office was "situated within twelve miles of the west line of the state of Missouri; which at present is the western limits of the United States, and about 120 miles west of any press in the state " (Ibid., page 277). There also appeared in the first 54 issue, the following counsel concerning the education of children: The disciples should lose no time in preparing schools for their children, that they may be taught as is pleasing unto the Lord, and brought up in the way of holliness. 'Those appointed to select and prepare books for the use of schools, will attend to that subject as soon as more weighty matters are finished. Since that time the Church has developed an educational system that has provided for the secular and religious education of its members. William W. Phelps' Career William W. Phelps was a man of great ability, with varied interests. Numerous were his contributions to 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and to the American frontier. His versatility of ability and interests is shown by the following occupations and offices held by him. He was "a printer, hymn writer, poet-journalist, newspaper editor, judge, orator, scribe, lawyer, educator, missionary, temple worker, member of city council, member of stake presidency, pioneer, explorer, writer of books and pamphlets, topographical engineer, superintendent of schools, surveyor general, weather man, chaplain of lower house of representatives, and speaker of the house in the legislature of the State of Deseret." In the years of 1837 and 1838 when many leading brethren apostatized, Brother Phelps was one of them. The members of the Church in Missouri withdrew the hand of fellowship from the local presidency of the Church, consisting of Brother Phelps, David Whitmer, and John Whitmer, because of disobedience to the word of the Lord. Notwithstanding the action of Brother Phelps which brought about his severance from the Church in the spring of 1838, the Lord still provided an opportunity for him to return to the fold in a revelation a few months later. (See D. H. C. III:46.) Later in the year 1838, Brother Phelps, with other former members of the Church, signed an affidavit against the Prophet in a court of inquiry. Ata conference of the Church in Quincy, Illinois, March 17, 1839, Brother Phelps was excommunicated. Several years later he confessed that this affidavit was made under duress and that his part of betraying his brethren was done to save his life. The Prodigal Returns In June 1840, William W. Phelps wrote to the Prophet asking forgiveness for the errors he had committed in Missouri. His confession and spirit shown in this letter indicate what was said earlier in this lesson, that he had received a witness of the truth, but he permitted Satan temporarily to overcome him. He wrote as follows:... I am as the prodigal son, though I never doubt or disbelieve the fulness of the Gospel. I have been greatly abused and humbled, and I blessed the God of Israel when I lately read your prophetic blessing on my head, as follows: "The Lord will chasten him because he taketh honor to himself, and when his soul is greatly humbled he will forsake the evil. Then shall the light of the Lord break upon him as at noonday and in him shall be no darkness," &c. I have seen the folly of my way, and I tremble at the gulf I have passed. So it is, and why I know not. I prayed and God answered, but what could I do? Says I, "I will repent and live, and ask my old LESSON DEPARTMENT brethren to forgive me, and though they chasten me to death, yet I will die with them, for their God is my God. The least place with them is enough for me, yea, it is bigger and better than all Babylon." I know my situation, you know it, and God knows it, and I want to be saved if my friends will help me.... I have done wrong and I am sorry. The beam is in my own eye. I have not walked along with my friends according to my holy anointing. I ask forgiveness in the name of Jesus Christ of all the Saints, for I will do right, God helping me. I want your fellowship; if you cannot grant that, grant me your peace and friendship, for we are brethren, and our communion used to be sweet, and whenever the Lord brings us together again, I will make all the satisfaction on every point that Saints or God can require. Amen (D. H. C. IV:141-142). The Prophet's Greatness In reply to this request, Joseph Smith extended the hand of forgiveness for himself and the saints. He referred to the suffering caused by Brother Phelps and said: the cup of gall, already full enough for mortals to drink, was indeed filled to overflowing when you turned against Ms However, the cup has been drunk, the will of our Father has been done, and we are yet alive, for which we thank the Lord. And having been delivered from the hands of wicked men by the mercy of our God, we say it is your privilege to be deliveredfrom the powers of the adversary.... Your letter was read to the Saints last Sunday, and an expression of their feeling was taken, when it was unanimously Resolved, That W. W. Phelps should be received into fellowship. "Come on, dear brother, since the war is past, for friends at first, are friends again at last" (Ibid., pp. 163-164). Brother Phelps' faithfulness after this was evidenced in many ways during his life. His testimony of the 55 truth was shown when he sustained the Twelve Apostles after the martyrdom of the Prophet. As a pioneer in the West, his contribution was great as already indicated in his numerous activities. Phelps, the Hymn Writer Many of the accomplishments and contributions of William W. Phelps have been forgotten by the members or are unknown to them, but there is one contribution made by him which will never be unknown. It was his great gift to write hymns. It is improbable that any one person has left his impress to a greater degree upon the Church in this way than has Brother Phelps. W. W. Phelps' Testimony The conversion of William W. Phelps came about from his reading The Book of Mormon. Upon meeting the Prophet Joseph Smith, he and his wife were convinced of the truth of what the Prophet had said concerning the reopening of the heavens and the revelations directing the establishment of the kingdom of God on the earth. Although there were times when he turned against the Church he had accepted as true, yet, he came through many trials and persecutions. 'Truly, the Lord had blessed him generously with many talents which he used for the advancement of his work. He was "called and chosen" as the revelation said. (See D & C 55:1.) Upon his return to the fold and until his death on March 6, 1872, in Salt Lake City, Utah, he continued firm in his testimony of the work instituted by God through the Prophet Joseph Smith. In the General Conference of April 1860, Elder Phelps 56 held in his hand a copy of the first edition of that Book [Book of Mormon| and declared it to be the truth of the Almighty; he had heard the testimony of Joseph Smith and that of the chosen witnesses in relation to the Book of Mormon, and he with them wished to give his testimony to the world relative to its divine origin. He said that he knew this was the church of the living God, and that Brigham Young was the legally appointed successor of Joseph Smith, and that all who receive this testimony will be saved in the celestial kingdom, and he wished he had a thousand tongues to speak of the great things of the kingdom to the nations of the earth (Deseret News, April 11, 1860). Questions for Discussion 1. Describe the effect of The Book of Mormon upon the conversion of Brother Phelps. 2. What effect did meeting the Prophet Joseph Smith have upon his decision to be baptized? 3. Why is it necessary for a person to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost if he has already received a testimony of the gospel by the Holy Ghost? 4. In the true Church an elder is promised a power which can be verified over a period of time. (a) What is this power? (b) How is it manifest? 5. Of what importance to the Church was The Evening and Morning Star? 6. Name some of the contributions of Brother Phelps to the hymnology of the Church. (Consult a Latter-day Saint hymn book. ) Visiting Sleacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 39 — "lI Will Be Merciful Unto You" (D & C 50:16). Christine H.