Literature Comes of Age Lesson 31 — Edgar Allan Poe — The Pathos of His Life and Poetry (1809-1849) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 413-457) For Tuesday, April 17, 1962 Objective: To review Poe's life that we may more truly read his works. DGAR Allan Poe, generally recognized by the public as an author of great prose and poetry, has been subjected to more conflicting judgments by the critics than any other American literary writer. These diverse opinions concern both his personal life and his artistic creations. 'They range from such comments as 'T'ennyson's, ""The most original American genius,' to the slanderous portrait of Poe as portrayed by the Reverend Rufus W. Griswold, whom, most ironically, the naive Poe chose to edit his writings. Never in literary history has a literary personage committed a more catastrophic blunder. Poe made his living as an editor and critic, whose keen analytical powers were respected and whose courage and, sometimes, sharp tongue in saying exactly what he thought of his contemporaries, made him many enemies, among them Rufus W. Griswold. Griswold apparently never forgave Poe for publishing unflattering statements about his writings and those of his friends. Poe felt contempt for the current practice of publishing critical comments anonymously; he believed it... Folly to assert that the literature of any nation or age was ever injured by plain speaking on the part of critics. As Page 60 for American Letters, plain speaking about them is, simply, the one thing needed. They are in a condition of absolute quagmire (Southern Literary Messenger, July 1849). And Poe spoke plainly, indeed, as the following excerpt from a review testifies: Mr. Grattan [the author] has a bad habit, that of loitering in the road — of dallying and toying with his subject, as a kitten with a mouse — instead of grasping it firmly at once and eating it up without more ado. He takes up too much time in the anteroom. He is never done with his introductions... So that by the time he arrives at his main incidents there is nothing more to tell. He seems afflicted with that curious yet common perversity observed in garrulous old women—the desire of tantalizing by circumlocution.... If the greasy-looking lithograph here given as a frontispiece, be meant for Mr. Grattan, then is Mr. Grattan like nobody else — for the fact is, I never yet knew an individual with a wire wig, or the countenance of an under-done apple dumpling.... As a general rule, no man should put his own face in his own book. In looking at the author's countenance the reader is seldom in condition to keep his own (Southern Literary Messenger, April 1849). Prophet Without Honor Justly Poe might be described as having lived in the world, yet not of it. Although he is the one man in the English-speaking world who LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Pictur EDGAR ALLAN POE has achieved pre-eminence in the three literary realms of fiction, poetry, and criticism, still many adult Americans have always tended either merely to tolerate him, without really claiming him as one of their own, or to ignore part of him. But since it is just and inevitable that we admit his greatness as an American writer, it is equally just and inevitable that we face the life out of which his greatness came, that we may more fully appreciate and understand both the intent and achievement of his creations. Poe's Chronology Edgar Allan Poe was born January 19, 1809, to actor parents while their group was appearing in Boston. His grandfather, General David Poe, was quartermaster general during the American Revolution, and friend to LaFayette. Before he was three, 61 Poe's parents had separated and both had died. His mother died in Richmond, Virginia, where, out of pity, three wealthy matrons each took one of the three surviving children into their homes. Mr. John Allan, stern, practical Scotchman, had no children and desired none, but he yielded to the wishes of his younger wife and accepted Edgar, giving him Allan as his middle name. He provided Poe with excellent schooling in England and at the University of Virginia, but always resented him somewhat, though his wife was overly affectionate. First in his class at the university, Poe gambled to pay school expenses which he claimed Mr. Allan would not. 'They quarreled violently, and Edgar ran away to Boston. He published his first book of poems when he was eighteen, before enlisting as a private in the army. He arrived at home the day after Mrs. Allan's funeral, and entered West Point through Mr. Allan's influence, but soon asked permission to resign his appointment. When this was denied, he cut out enough classes to get himself discharged. He published his second book of poems and first prize-winning stories while living at the home of his aunt, Maria Poe Clemm, in Baltimore. When Poe was twenty-four he moved to Richmond to work full time on the staff of The Southern Literary Messenger, one of the most influential magazines of the day, soon becoming its editor. Mrs. Clemm and her daughter Virginia joined him there, and the next year he married Virginia, in her fourteenth year. 'Theirs was a most happy marriage, although Virginia, always delicate and sensitive, died 62 eleven years later. "Mother" Clemm lived with them until her daughter's death, then remained with her "adored Eddie" until his own death, in October 1849. The year following his marriage Poe moved his family to New York City, then to Philadelphia, where he soon became editor of Graham's Magazine. Having achieved success with his prose writings, he returned to New York City and for a time fulfilled his lifetime dream of editing his own magazine, but, when it failed, he moved his family to a humble cottage at Fordham, some miles outside the city, where their poverty became acute and Virginia died in 1847. Bewildered by grief and loneliness, Poe began lecturing widely. First he courted one widow in Lowell, Massachusetts, then proposed to another in Rhode Island. When a few months later their marriage plans were, by mutual consent, abandoned, he again attempted to find support for a new magazine he hoped to establish and edit. During a southern tour he met an old friend in Richmond, Virginia, and planned to marry her as soon as he could bring Mrs. Clemm from New York for the wedding. While on his way he suffered a mysterious catastrophe and was taken to a Baltimore hospital where he died four days later, on October 7, 1849. His death resulted not from "delirium tremens," as reported by Griswold (whom his attending physician, Dr. John J. Moran, defined as Poe's "avowed and personal enemy'), but from nervous prostration and the shock of having been beaten, robbed, and abandoned. In his A Defense of Edgar Allan Poe, published in 1885, Dr. Moran described in detail the sixteen hours preceding death when Poe was under his care, in rational consciousness save when he slept, and that he "did not die under the influence of any kind of intoxicating drink." Incensed at the malicious warping of the truth by Griswold, Poe's friends, N. P. Willis and George Graham, editor of Graham's Magazine, at once published defenses of Poe's character and reputation — in magazines, while Griswold's more extended "Memoir of Poe" appeared in every copy of Poe's works until late in the century, both in Europe and in this country. Several other friends published books in an attempt to correct the false picture which Griswold had made, but largely in vain. Griswold forged several letters, inserted and deleted words to change Poe's meaning and character, and so falsely accused Poe of duplicity in relation to his own charges of plagiarism against peaceloving Longfellow, that even Longfellow felt compelled to expose the falseness of Griswold's accusations. To maintain that Poe's private life was without flaw would be as untrue as were Griswold's errors and manipulations, for Poe was, on occasion, vain, sharp-tongued, and always intensely ambitious for success. As for drug addiction, a doctor testified that he was so unfamiliar with laudanum that when in a fit of depression he attempted using it, he didn't even know the proper dosage. He did drink excessively on occasions when his malnourished wife was dying or when sophisticated Bostonians walked out en' masse during his lecture, but he knew LESSON DEPARTMENT alcohol acted as a poison within him, and that half a glass of wine made him well-nigh insane, or, im Graham's words, "the least drop of wine, to most men a moderate stimulus, was to him literally the cup of frenzy." As for charges of insanity, Poe probably spoke truth when he said that "I was never teally insane, except on occasions where my heart was touched." Apparently, only two such _ periods occurred in his life: during the years of his wife's suffering and, intermittently, during the final days of his life. As Poe wrote, on January 4, 1848, "My enemies referred the insanity to the drink rather than the drink to the insanity." Particularly, after reading in Poe's stories more extended and gripping examples of this world of inward terror which so dominated his art, may we be willing to see how drinking was the effect rather than the cause. The editors of the most scholarly anthology of his writings (Alterton and Craig, Edgar Allan Poe, Representative Selections, American Book Company, 1934) write on page 543: "Of all the nonsense talked about Poe, and there has been much, none is perhaps greater than that which fails to see in him a man of fundamentally noble moral nature,' a statement which becomes more pertinent to his entire life and writings the more they are studied. Poe's first book of poems, titled Tammerlane and Other Poems was published in Boston in 1827. Most of these earlier poems reflect the disappointments and ambitions of youth and reveal the influence of English romantic poets, such as Coleridge and Byron. By 1831, when 63 another volume of his poetry appeared, which included the poems "To Helen," "Israfel," and "The City in the Sea," Poe had developed more sureness as a poet. The poem "To Helen" was, according to Poe, inspired by a school friend's mother who died when Poe was fifteen. Her kindness to the sensitive young boy caused him to speak of her as an angel to his forlorn and darkened nature. Yet in this poem ""T'o Helen" the idealized image is not flesh and blood, but a symbol of beauty in the land of heart's desire. Poe is representatively romantic in his portrayal of nostalgic yearning for a realm of serene beauty, in art, in myth, and in life, and in this poem the entire feeling is romantic, although the allusions and pictures are all classical. TO HELEN Helen, thy beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks of yore, That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, way-worn wanderer bore To his own native shore. On desperate seas long wont to roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have brought me home To the glory that was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome. Lo! In yon brilliant window-niche How statue-like I see thee stand, The agate lamp within thy hand! Ah, Psyche, from the regions which Are Holy-Land! "Annabel Lee," one of Poe's best known and best loved poems, supposedly refers to his own young wife Virginia who died at the age of twenty-four. (See text, page 455.) Written in 1849, the poem concludes with 64 For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And the stars never rise, but I feel the bnght eyes Of the beautiful Annabel Lee: And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling — my darling — my life and my bride, In her sepulchre there by the sea— In her tomb by the side of the sea. Next to "The Raven," Poe's most popular poem is "I'he Bells" which was much revised before Poe, in 1849, considered it complete. Many readers enjoy this poem for the tone and mood conveyed by sound and image. As the poem progresses, we become increasingly aware of words carefully selected for their particular music-tone. A unity of effect is achieved in each stanza by the use of descriptive words appropriately associated with a particular bell and its connotation. (See text, pp. 454455-) | Note that in stanza I, the silver bells of the sledge, with their tinkling, jingling sound are heard in the "icy air of night," while in stanza 3, alarum bells are loud, turbulent, brazen, and clamorous, and they clang into the "palpitating air." An interchange of any of these descriptive words would destroy the unity of effect Poe worked so carefully to create within each stanza. The poem must be read aloud to appreciate the music-tone of words and the vivid image. Spiritualism and mesmerism were current speculative interests of Poe's day, and Poe became somewhat interested in them as dramatic material for his art in story and verse. But the mysticism which more truly represents Poe was of a personal nature. It was refuge and adventure into the dark, mysterious regions of his inner self. No statement on his poetry, with its "indefinite," unattained beauty and its pathos, can be accurately made without taking into account the pathos of his sensitive and lonely life. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what ways do Poe's writings reflect the unfortunate circumstances and_loneliness of his life? 2. How do the conflicting judgments of critics affect our evaluation of Poe as man? As artist? 3. Which romantic qualities do you find in Poe's poetry? (See Preview.)