[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | April | Issue: 18 | Title: BACK TO THE LONG AGO. | Author: L. M. HEWLINGS]

BACK TO THE LONG AGO.
	
	As I have many and varied themes to
write upon, with small space of time for it,
the old adage often given in my copy-books
to profit from, stands out in full force before
me, “Procrastination is the thief of time.”
I must now go back to “October’s Glory,”
take you along with our party of six cousins,
in easy conveyance over hill and down dale,
through woodland and vale, with clear blue
skies above and all beneath and around
brilliant in coloring and radiant in the glory
of beautiful garments. The trees seemed
“to clap their hands and break forth into
singing,” the oak, maple ash, hickory, birch,
poplar, spruce, lofty pines, hack matacks,
with red sumach glowing like fire of the
“burning bush,” bright warm sunshine
pure, soft, breezy air floating over and
among them, inspiring all hearts with praise,
and to joyful acceptance of the Scriptural
declaration “He hath made all things
beautiful in their time.” And what more fit-
ful season, after long years, to revisit the
places and scenes of early youth once so
familiar, now in October’s glory of golden
yellow, red, brown, green, with varied tints
and shades, illuminated in gorgeous splen-
dor, gladdening body and mind with its mar-
velous beauty; and thus all the way through
towns, hamlets and villages, to and from
our dear grandparents farm, we found de-
lightful entertainments, glorious company,
ample refreshments, good accommodations
for ourselves and teams. And then to lodge
in the same bed-rooms where oftimes in
childhood I had done, and look through the
same small panes of glass and watch the
same stars as they appeared twinkling in

[Column 2]
the sky upon me, and then to rise in the
morning, and look through this old fashioned
window out upon kitchen and old time.
flower gardens, where once bees reveled in
their sweets and stored immense piles of
purest honey in their hives placed in rows
under protecting shelter built for them be-
neath the overhanging lilacs then to climb
the stairs into the old attic chambers, see
and breathe in the aromatic fragrance of
various medicinal herbs, the same as were
gathered in days long ago hung in the same
order on the great beams overhead, the
floor spread thick with golden yellow corn,
nuts, etc. As of yore impressed me to ex-
claim—has time in its flight turned back-
ward, else why am I thus confronted
with these emblems of half a century and
more? The large old barn of massive tim-
ber in which we have played “merry
frolics,” that has withstood storms heat
and colds, for more than two centuries,
collapsed, July 10th, 1894, with noise that
reverberated over the place shaking the old
farm-house like an earthquake, so that
feature, as well as saddle and dairy houses,
cider mill, long sheds, fences with gates of
entrance are removed—a nice new barn not
as commodious but sufficient for present
purposes of the farm replaces the old, so
dear in memory of childhood days.
	The interior of the “Auld House” has
undergone some alterations, the roof has
recently been now shingled, yet the whole
exterior aside from the roof, now minus of
its bright coat of former days, has a decided
wasting away appearance. Clap boards
near the foundations breaking, crumbling,
testify to its venerable age and of changes
bravely withstood through successive gen-
erations—wonderful tales, histories of facts,
tradgey and comedy, anecdotes, and inci-
dents, pathetic and humorous all having the
authority of knowledge indisputable might
be written that would make volumes of
scenes enacted within the walls, of this
ancient dwelling and surroundings. Two
of its sons reared within its walls went forth
to the battles of the Revolution, others of
another generation were in the war of 1812
and many descendants of this house-
hold in the Mexican, and our late war for
the Union. But I must not linger to re-
late doings however brave or romantic, of
our paternal fathers and mothers. I must
now take you through the once flourishing
apple orchard over the huge stone wall, up
the steep hillside pasture over boulders of
stone to the once famous “Bears Den,”
where they made their lair in security un-
til this then wilderness land, was taken set-
tled upon and cultivated into a fruitful farm
by our paternal ancestors. Here the first,
that came, shot, we are told, two large bears
and afterward with his sons exterminated
these, and other wild beasts. And here
once more we stand, after an absence of
forty years, gazing down its rocky sides in-
to its cavernous depths. We will not at-
tempt to explore them, nor walk across the
massive rock-bridge that spans the chasm
beneath; a feat often performed without fear
in childhood days—two of our party how-
ever, pass around these rocks through
jungle of brush and briar, explore this
ancient den, come out from beneath the
rock-bridge climbing up the side of the
cave as far as possible to be drawn out to
the top by strong muscular arms near the
wonderful large, black birch tree, that
seemed without other aid to grow out from
the rocks, a land mark of the place, I


[Column 1]
would have been sorry to have missed,
from its trunk I have peeled bark, and from
its branches broken twigs. It is bent
gnarled, withered, yet has not failed (I am
told) to put forth in some parts of it, bud
and leaf in its season. Ah, how many
memories of other days the sight of this old
tree brought back to me!
	But I turn and ramble alone far out over
the hill-top overlooking the place where I
first saw the light and where we once lived
many years. The spacious barn is in good
condition—the vacant spot where the house
stood that was destroyed by fire, was in
mind easily rebuilt, repeopled and abound-
ing with life as in years long past. Dear
mother was at the door, father too, as if re-
turning home many children running to
and fro, over the lawn, in the garden and
across the way where travellers paused by
the roadside for their animals to slake their
thirst in the clear waters, that constantly
flowed into a deep receptacle from a never
failing spring in the hillside above—I
fancied I heard the same rippling waters,
the sounds of flocks and herds, of insect,
bees and bird, the hum of voices then
seemed to greet me with all the old time
tenderness as I stood entranced with visions
brought out of the long ago past, until the
spell was broken, by calls for my return
where from the highest point of this rocky
hill-top, commanding an extensive view of
old farm and surrounding country we gaze
long and admiringly—finely cultivated
farms, lovely quiet homes, pasture-lands
with flocks and herds, variegated scenery,
broad swift flowing river taking its course
through meadow woodland and village,
where its water’s once turned the wheels of
busy industry, and its over flow appeared to
us as children, (before we had seen the
unrivaled waters of Niagara) a fall of tre-
mendous volume! Now we catch glimpses
of dome and spire in the distance—and far
away on the very limit of the horizon, the
church on Petersham hill. The spire and
dome of the building glows like fire neath
the sun’s golden rays that shine over, all
around in dazzling beauty on this glorious
October morning, presenting a living pic-
ture transparently beautiful! Only the
New Englander knows what sterling vir-
tues have been nurtured on these hill-farms
and what quick energy and abounding life
have flowed down from these same hillsides
into the best streams of the nation’s activity.
	The village now called Nichewaney, has
much the appearance of fifty years past
with the exception of mills removed, a new
school building replacing the old, all the
buildings are there looking as fresh (ex-
ternally at least,) as if neither cold or heat
of half, or even more than a century had
affected them; a few buildings have been
added but not enough to make any material
change. The steep factory hill has an easier
grade, sloping gradually to the river bridge,
the majestic old oak that spread its friendly
branches over us in our school-day plays
and all others who sought its friendly shade
at the top of the hill, was sacrificed to this
improvement—a land mark regretfully
missed yet I was cheered at sight of the
magnificent elm, further up the village by
the road-side, growing there before the
Declaration of Independance, and has now
attained to enormous height and breadth, its
gigantic limbs shading roadsides, lawn, and
the whole house once owned and occupied
by Col. Josiah Wheeler, War Veteran of
1812, and who kept the village store many
years, held numerous town and County

[Column 2]
offices, etc. A man much esteemed and by
the younger portion (of this, then, com-
munity) as a superior being, mostly I be-
lieve on account of the prefix to his name
as he was the only man in the place entitled
to such distinction. In these days the title
of Col. has become too numerous to be re-
garded with any great degree of reverent
veneration.
	Although this old New England Village
more outwardly a familiar aspect, I fully
realized that the life of days “Lang Syne,”
no longer existed. The old had passed
away, the young had grown old and grey
and followed with generations that live only
to murmur, “that life is but a dream soon
told.’’ I was a stranger, among a strange
people; we wandered through the old bury-
ing ground where in solitude undisturbed
the dust of our ancestor’s and others of our
kindred repose, no interments have been
made therein for more than a generation.
The massive stone wall that once surrounded
it lies prostrate on the earth, the wide black
weird looking gate of entrance gone, culti-
vated lands on two sides adjoining have now
a growth of heavy timber, mostly of pine,
which gives this isolated resting place of the
dead a somber aspect, with spirit commen-
dable after many years of neglect, trees
left to grow out of graves with undergrowth
of brush, briar tangled vines etc., have
been removed, broken stones repaired and
others reset—we lingered awhile by our
sister’s grave. The inscription name, dates,
with the beautiful verse our dear mother
had engraved thereon, is as plainly legible
as forty years gone.
	From this place looking northwest, we
behold the wooded mount, “Thripany
Morris,” belonging the Woodward estate,
from which many thousand cords of wood
have been taken and which is mournfully
associated with the death of our father.
We took different routes to and from this
ancient town, thereby affording excellent
opportunity to review this part of New
England after years of absence, we re-
turned through Nichewaney and through
the beautiful hill-farms, once familiar, now
nearly all owned or rented by foreigners,
and here I must say a real genuine Yankee
farmer, is about as scarce in this part of
New England as black pearls. We passed
through Petersham centre, a breezy height,
now, a summer resort for city dwellers, on
through Templeton, portions of Athol,
with its thriving villages, and farms, long
stretches of woodland, most enchantingly
charming; all arrayed in gorgeous splendor.
We reach the busy picturesque town of
Orange just as the golden light of day has
passed behind the western hills in splendid
glory. Here we separate, going our dif-
ferent ways, one, a descendant of our great
Uncle Seth Woodward who was all through
the Revolutionary War, has a home in Buf-
falo New York, the others (myself excepted)
reside in the Old Bay State. But the mem-
ory of those will be gratefully cherished,
who by their kindness enabled me to revisit
the places and scenes of early life in the
beautiful days of “October’s glory,”

	Someday, (Providence permitting) I may
tell you of other places of interest—visited
in New England, some of them quite noted,
famous in history; but it is hardly probable
any description given of its scenery, how-
ever picturesque or unique, of land or
water, could compare with the grandeur
and loveliness of Utah scenery, Utah, the
gem of the “Rockies,” and not even Mount

[Column 3]
Washingion or the White Granite Moun-
tains of New Hampshire, Green Mountains
of Vermont, nor the gem of Massachusetts
Mountains “Mount Holyoke, lifting itself
abruptly from the midst of a fertile and
highly cultivated valley, 1,000 feet, with
double track rail road over which to convey
visitors etc, to “Prospect House,” the most
commanding spot of the range, could ap-
proximate in sublimity to its mountains
glistening white and cold, in Mid-summer;
giant warders of vales below.
					L. M. HEWLINGS.
