[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | April | Issue: 18 | Title: THE SPIRIT OF REFORM REDUCED | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

THE SPIRIT OF REFORM REDUCED
TO PRACTICE.
	IN the Book of Books it is written, “God
said ‘Let there be light’ and there was
light.’’ An abstract truth is herein set
forth, but the whole sum of the matter is
not expressed. Reason teaches that there
were agencies who understood and obeyed
the mandate of divine authority, and thus
the purpose of the Lord was fulfilled. Not
words alone, but works; brave, determined,
incessant effort, wields the power which
will eventually revolutionize the world.
	The world in its grand old age has grown
very wise, and contains many teachers.
Also many who aspire to be teachers with-
out the necessary preparation and qualifica-
tions.
	Of the latter class the unwary should be-
ware, lest “the blind lead the blind, and
both fall into the ditch.”
	It is good to desire, with great and strong
desire to be a teacher of truth. And it is
possible for almost every one to become a
true teacher; not an imaginary or mislead-

[Column 2]
ing one. It should be considered a cause
for individual congratulation, that the in-
fluence of one pure and noble character, of
life, is of more lasting and certain weight
in the scale of the world’s reformation, than
the preaching of a thousand sermons or the
publishing of thousands of volumes. Up-
on first thought, this statement may appear
questionable in the minds of some, but a
brief analysis offers proofs of its correctness. 
	In the first place, the one grand soul
which in spite of all obstacles, heroically
performs its daily duties, small or great, to
the end of mortal life, is saved. While of
all the millions of hearts which may be
thrilled by the sound of the thousand ser-
mons, or the perusal of the many volumes,
not one, by those means, independent of
self exertion, will ever secure salvation.
And again, the object lesson presented by a
worthy life, to those who are fortunate
enough to come within the circle of its
light, is of greater practical value than the
mere listening to the most eloquent ser-
mons, or reading of the most instructive
works, can be. For one is the positive
demonstration of exalted truths; the others
are simply oral and book lessons.
	The present era is one of general educa-
tion. The world is full of educated, or at
least partially educated speakers and wri-
ters. Has it a proportionate number of
charitable and sympathetic hearts and will-
ing, do its workers or a majority of them
actually work for the good of humanity,
for the reformation and salvation of the
masses; ready, patient hands? Or is there,
within the breasts of many, underlying
this high and holy object, a reaching after
vain glory, a yearning for adulation, a love
of praise? And in many instances, coupled
with these polluting tendencies, is there
not an undue and selfish longing for world-
ly wealth? No heart need fear to take
home, and kindly entertain these questions;
and prove them, whether they be friendly
messengers come to give warning of dangers
ahead, or mere safety inspectors, looking
after the general weal. Where there is
no dross to be consumed, the fire need not
be dreaded.
	If, however, the evils here mentioned are
really prevalent, to what cause may such 
lamentable effects be traced? Does it not
give rise to reasonable apprehensions that
something is at fault with the general
manner, or matter, by which the public 
mind is nourished? Let us look into this
subject.
	Children attend school and are over-fed
mentally, as a rule, in this generation. 
Often vanity and love of praise are engen-
dered, fostered and highly developed in the
innocent child, to sharpen the appetite and
increase the thirst for learning. Thus the
capacity of the brain is expanded at the
expense and to the neglect of the heart.
Thus knowledge is eagerly sought and
obtained through selfish motives, for world-
ly honor and gain; instead of in the spirit
of generosity, to do good and diffuse light
in the midst of the world.
	Parents as well as teachers, home as well
as school influences all lead in much the


[Column 1]
same direction. Fathers and mothers,
ambitious for the honor and high positions
to which they fondly hope to see their
children attain, bestow persuasive con-
gratulations and flattery, in season and out
of season, wherever and whenever the
slightest opportunities are presented, and
often without the least modification. Can
there be any wonder that hearts thus un-
cultured, coupled with minds thus over-
trained, springing up all over the world,
should flood it with unwholesome literature
and false theories, advanced in lectures,
books, and works of every kind?
	What a lamentable thing it is—not that
we have too many speakers, writers or
teachers, but that we have so few of the
right kind. Good books are among our
best friends; too many books which teach
nothing but sound doctrine, will never be
written or published. Too many sermons
of pure and true moral and religious tenden-
cies will never be preached. It is the un-
sound, misleading matter, though perhaps
bright, entertaining and high-sounding, all
the more dangerous if it be so, which is
written with a view to gaining popularity
for its authors, that is too lavishly diffused,
and should be consigned to oblivion before 
it sees the light.
	What mountains of labor arise to con-
front workers, in the counteracting of the
mischievious results of all this false educa-
tion which has been going on and gaining
strength for generations! How carefully 
should they look to it, that they be not
themselves deceived, and become contamina-
ted with the same spirit and influence which
actuate the narrow-minded and short- 
sighted lovers of gain.
	Leaders there must be, that the world’s
work may be carried forward to its final
consummation. But let them be those who
are workers themselves, and whose works
bear fruits worthy of inspection and ac-
ceptance. Then, let followers keep their
leaders in view; and not, through undue
self confidence, or negligence, run reckless-
ly, in line or out of line, just as it may
happen. Harmony, in any pursuit, can
only be maintained through the strict obser-
vance of immutable laws.
	Notice a choir master, and the worshiping
assembly, in congregational singing, where
musical talent is not much cultivated. One
portion of the congregation, not consider-
ing themselves professionals, make no at-
tempt to sing, being either too proud or too
modest to join in an effort wherein they are
not sure to excel. Another portion sing
boldly, heedlessly, with great self-reliance,
never taking thought or trouble to look at
the baton in the hand of the master. Ah,
the poor master! You can see how dis-
heartened he becomes, as some push ahead
while others lag behind almost destroying,
at times, the melody of those voices whose
possessors watch the baton and sing in
harmony. It may not be the discordant
singers who form the majority, but often,
they make so much noise that they seem to
be the larger part of the congregation.
And they are the ones who turn their
heads and say to their neighbors, “Well
did you ever hear such singing? If I be-
longed to such a choir, I would break loose
and found one of my own.”
	So it is with the world, its would-be re-
formers, and its real reformers, today.
Many are doing nothing, Many are doing
great things in their own estimation, but
worse than nothing in the estimation of

[Column 2]
others. While some are, watching the
baton, and by keeping in accord with its
movements, are working harmoniously for
the regeneration of mankind.
	To which of these classes do I belong? is
a serious question, which every one will do
well to ask of self. And if a feeling of
indifference, or of envy, of jealous rivalry
or inconsideration for the welfare of others
is found to be present in any degree, there
is a good place to begin immediate and
earnest work in reducing the spirit of re-
form to practice.
	In the same spirit, and with the same
view of actual reform, may be made an
appeal for peace between men and women.
The battle waged, for the maintenance of
supremacy on one side, and the recognition
of inherent rights on the other, has been
long and rigorously pursued. But, thanks
to God, and to our noble, self-sacrificing
champions of woman's cause, and universal
justice, we may hope at least, that the
principle of equal rights is beginning to be
understood, that the war between the sexes
is nearly over, and that soon, “The smoke
of its cannons” will have cleared away, 
and “The clashing of its bayonets” will be
no longer heard. For wars, either with
weapons in the mouth or in the hand, are
terrible; and their giving way for the ex-
tension of peace is a most desirable se-
quence. If, however, this happy termina-
tion may not be said to have already come
in sight, add if a call for the declaration of
peace would be considered premature, yet,
let us joyfully anticipate its early appear-
ance, and be prepared to meet it with 
suitable acclaim.
	Let us begin to cultivate and exhibit
feelings of peace and love toward all, and
be ready for the good time when it does
come. And while peace, beautiful peace,
is preparing to spread her white, downy
wings over our hearts and homes in restful
security, may we not briefly but cautiously
review portions of the theories and systems
adopted in modern education, and note
some changes which might be suggested
by way of improvement?
	Already has it been intimated, in a
former paragraph, that undue expansion of
the intellectual powers is required by the
present forms of our schools and colleges,
to the neglect and injury of other faculties.	
	The saddest thing in connection with this
mistaken plan, is the effort to crush out the
finest sentiments, the most sacred instincts
of the human heart. The first great divine
commandment given to man and woman
on this earth, which was to “Be fruitful
and multiply,” has been ruthlessly set
aside and trampled upon. And this is
looked upon as philanthropic and praise
worthy by some of our much-learned pro-
fessors and teachers. Indeed, rules are
sought to be established, in some instances,
prohibiting the acceptance of a married
woman as a teacher in a public school.
And young women who have been found
to possess especial adaptabilities as teachers,
have even been solicited to sign contracts
to the effect that they never will marry, but
will devote their lives to the training of
other people’s children. What unwarrant-
ed disregard of divine law! What an out-
rage upon humanity—what sacrilege! It 
would seem incredible that intelligent and
enlightened manhood could be so utterly
blinded to the noblest and purest impulses
of human nature. Who does not know
that marriage—happy, true marriage—is

[Column 3]
the high school of virtue—yea, of all the
virtues which God designed as guides to
perfect life for His children, the offspring of
Deity.
	Who can realize that an unmarried man,
or a woman standing alone in the world, is
but half of the perfect being God designed
in His creation of humanity? True it is
that many who have passed through life
unmarried, (mostly women) have done
great good, have made the world better for
their having lived in it; but who can tell
how much more good they might have
accomplished with the aid, encouragement,
and support of suitable companions, to have
formed more perfect beings? There is
nothing truer than that the woman, who, 
for any reason, is debarred the privilege of
motherhood in pure and holy wedlock, of
clasping to her bosom her own priceless,
God-given child, is denied the highest and
most choice gift the loving Father ever
intended His daughters to receive.
	Yet, mark the armies of unmarried
women to be met with everywhere; look
into their hungry eyes, which are only
indexes to their poor, starving, fam-
ished hearts! They smile, but the smile is
soulless; they laugh, but the laugh is
hollow and bitter!
	Let a new plan of tuition be mapped out,
let our young men and young women, the 
former especially, as with them it is most
needed—(for women would marry with
proper opportunities) be taught and made
to understand, that life unsanctified by
wisely, prayerfully chosen wedded com-
panionship, if not wasted is worthless in
comparison to what it might be if more
judiciously managed. That while, as to 
all general rules, there may be honorable
exceptions, the position of such an excep-
tion is not an enviable one.
	God gave to mankind, in the beginning,
a safe preventive of the most direful evils
which exist or ever have existed upon the
earth. It has been outlawed and ignored
by man’s superficial rulings. And now,
the only antidote for those crying evils, is a
return to the acceptance of the primitive
divine law.
	In our little worlds—the home—and
social circles where individual influence may
be brought to bear, let us put forth strong,
invincible efforts, that reformation in its
true sense may be made apparent.
	Beginning with ourselves, let us see to it
that the spirit of reform is reduced to
practice.
			LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
		Jan. 26th, 1895.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“THE Tucson Star says of the Arizona
House of Representatives:
	The Legislative Assembly passed the wo-
man suffrage bill by a vote of 17 to 7,
which shows that the measure is popular
with the people, and indicates that there
are a number of rising statesmen in the As-
sembly who have taken off their hats to the
rising sun, and who clearly see the drift of
public sentiment; for, as sure as the day
follows the night, woman suffrage will be
the rule in every State and Territory within
the next ten years, and every public man
who makes his record against this right of
American womanhood will be retired from
politics. This is the edict of the progress-
ive American spirit which has taken hold
on the people.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


