[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | June | Issue: 23 | Title: ONLY A GLANCE. | Author: Unknown]

ONLY A GLANCE.

	THE Columbian Exposition is certainly
the greatest event in the largest sense of
the word that has been in any age of the
world of which we have any knowledge,
so far as learning, invention and practical
utility for the higher development of the
arts and sciences are concerned.
	To attempt any adequate description of
this mammoth, this gigantic human under-
taking would require a superhuman effort
almost, at any rate a tremendous power of
physical nerve force and mental calibre.
One may go day after day in the same
building (either of the large ones) and yet
feel he has not seen the half there is to be
seen.  Writing up the World's Fair is be-
ing done on a very infinitesimal scale.  It is
like throwing a pebble into the water, and
is a most unsatisfactory work; and yet so
many attempt it, the daily papers here have
the best chance of course, and yet large as
they are, and bright as the men and women
are who are upon the editorial and repor-
torial staffs of these ponderous dailies,
even they do not pretend to write up and
keep pace with what is going on in all
departments.
	Many things are unfinished, and men and
women are constantly doing and making
improvements, and the more they plan, and
the more they do, the more complicated the
work of summing it up becomes.  Then
there is the constant current of people com-
ing and going.  Who can expect to tell of
even the noted people, who are so modest
as not to force themselves upon public notice
to be mentioned in the daily press.
	What one can say is only like a side
scene, and barely a suggestion of the great,
actual, intense fact that has begun to change
the whole tenor of life in the great City of
Chicago.  It comes over one every now and
then like a magnificent dream of splendor
and enchantment, and it is hard to believe
even in the midst of it, that it is a deep
and far-reaching reality, permeating the
entire present, and reaching out to the great
unknown, and significant future.  We
have many of us been saying that life was
full of promise, the world was opening out
into broader fields and a higher expanse of
intellectual endowment, of civilization and
enlightenment, and yet with all the pro-
phetic intuition of the inspirational soul,
none of us  ever imagined in our fondest
dreams of any thing so lofty, so intensely
educational, so mighty in its tendencies and
benefits, as this Exposition now seems to
have become.  All the sciences of all the
ages seem to have culminated in this one
period of time, and the wheels of progress
still roll onward "conquering and to
conquer."
	A goodly number of our Utah people,
bright  men and women, have been visiting
the Exposition grounds day after day; for 
our own part, we have been wholly occupied
for two weeks with congresses and the
consequent duties and obligations, social and
otherwise the congresses involved.
	Only now for the last day or two have

[Column 2]
we begun to peep in at the enormous won-
ders of this gigantic enterprise that has
drawn together people of all nations, with
their best productions in every art known to
mankind as well as the learned professions,
and the products of industries not yet ar-
rived at the perfection styled arts in modern
phraseology.
	The writer is free to confess she knows
not where to begin or what to see first;
however, making a bold dash to accomplish
some little in the way of sight-seeing, we
began with one place seemingly more in
our own line of work—viz., “The Wo-
man’s Building.” We had attended one,
two, three receptions there, one of these
the unveiling of the statue of Harriet
Beecher Stowe, with ceremonies or exercises
in the beautiful and artistically decorated
library; in fact had been chaperoned
through some parts of it by one of the
Lady Managers, and yet felt in view of its
exquisite beauty how comparatively little
we know; and so as we say in the story,
this was our starting point.  Like many
other buildings it contains many unpacked,
unopened boxes, mysteries yet to be revealed.
There is more even now than one can 
readily study or describe, and the fact seems
always uppermost how little we poor mor-
tals know of the great, wide, wide world in
its richness and abundance—how small and
insignificant we are in and of ourselves.
	As all our readers are doubtless aware, the
architect was Miss Sophia S. Hayden of
Boston (how glad I am ’twas a Boston wo-
man.)  The building is two stories high
and the rotunda is sixty-five by seventy
feet reaching through the height of the 
building and covered with a skylight.  On
the roofs of the pavilions are open areas.
One serves as a cafe and one as a tea
garden.
	At the extreme ends of the rotunda are
two immense paintings, containing many
figures, and scenes in the most delicate
colors, and the effect upon the observer is
almost entrancing; it lifts one into a region
of highly cultivated art and leaves the im-
pression of the picture engrafted upon the
imagination. In the midst of the beauty
and delight of these crowning efforts of
woman's genius, displayed in the building
and its adornments, it is difficult to define
the emotions that possess the human soul,
at least the soul of a sympathetic, sensitive
woman.  It seemed we were lifted out of
this every day, practical age in which we
are living, into a land of beauty, of lights
and shadows that blended in the most at-
tractive harmony of color and of effect, and
all around above and below were things of
beauty of the finest order.
	Mrs. Candace Wheeler, who has had
charge of the decorative work and the
blending of harmonious colors, and objects,
is herself the personification of exquisite
taste in dress and appearance, and her
sweet unaffected ways win all hearts.  One
sees at a glance how well the lady man-
agers have chosen in making the selection
they did for this important but onerous
position.  All the pictures, needlework,
lace, embroidery, and tapestry here have
been done by woman’s hands and skill,
wrought out of her ingenious brain.  The
pictures she has painted, the books she has
written, the papers she has edited and pub-
lished, the silk she has manufactured, the
spinning, weaving and knitting, with all 
and every sort of work or of invention, all
these are here a splendid testimonial of
woman’s power and force in the great liv-

[Column 3]
ing, breathing world of which she is a
necessary factor in the economy of nature.


