[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | June | Issue: 23 | Title: PAST AND PRESENT. | Author: Unknown]

		PAST AND PRESENT.

	THERE has been a great deal said and
written about women of late years; how
brave and noble some have been in speak-
ing and lecturing on moral and social re-
form and political liberty for women.
	It is all very good, but I wonder why
they do not inculcate more love and rever-
ence for Deity in their speaking, and lectur-


[Column 1]
ing, certainly pure religion is a necessary
element for all to possess, particularly wo-
men who are public speakers and it is of
vital importance to them in all the walks of
life. Surely it would be wise for those wo-
men who aim to be public benefactors, to
speak about the prevention of those crimes
that are wasting away the people of this
and other nations. They might save some
from degradation by so doing.
	We often read the names and characters
of women of Bible fame; there is no doubt
but those women, in connection with their
husbands, suffered a great deal of persecu-
tion and death for their religion and it
gives one the horrors to read the history of
that time.
	It is true that some of the Mormon wo-
men of this Gospel dispensation have been
tried to the very heart’s core for their
religious belief through persecution and
prosecution. They have made and are still
making a history for themselves that will
astonish future generations. We also read
the characters of thousands of Nephite wo-
men who were brave and noble in their day.
Where can we read of more nobility of
soul in women than can be found in the
Book of Mormon, especially in the Book of
Alma, in the story of Helaman and his two
thousand sons or striplings, as he chose to
call them, who were so full of the spirit of
faith, implanted in their bosoms by their
loving and God-fearing mothers. These
mothers taught them that if they did not
doubt, God would deliver them from the
hands of their enemies. Their mothers’
teachings and prayers made them valiant
with courage for the cause, and bravely they
took up their weapons of war, and went forth
to battle in the name of Israel’s God,
conquering and subduing the enemies
of their adopted country.
	Where can there be found a more noble
example of fealty to God than the Nephite
mothers possessed. We surmise they had all
of the vicissitudes of human life to con-
tend with. Well, as mothers in Israel,
would we not do well to emulate those
Nephite mothers, teaching our noble and
ambitious sons such God-like, principles?
I know I will as far as I have the ability.
We know of the past but do not know of
the future, or what a day may bring forth;
the American motto is, “In time of peace
prepare for war.” We read considerable
about the beauty of the Nephite women, it
consisted mostly in the workmanship of
their own hands, in making and wearing
their own apparel. What a pity they did not
continue to do so. Yes, we read of mothers
of kings doing it. I do not know what
some of our royal mothers would have to
say, nowadays, about spinning and weaving
cloth for their royal sons to wear, we know
the pioneer women of Utah did it and were
glad to get the material to do it with; I
know I was and if we did not have kings
to wear it, we had prophets and sons of
prophets. What a glorious time of
religious freedom it was then when we
worshiped the Lord in home-made cloth.
I wish it was made now and worn by some
of the sisters of our Church! I think there
would be more humility of heart and less
partiality shown through the love of dress.
Do not think for a moment the writer does
not love a nice dress, for I do; but I do not
intend that the wearing of a good dress or
anything else shall run away with my
discretion in other matters, besides it is not
the wearing of fine clothes that is wrong
but the pride it is likely to produce.

[Column 2]
Vanity and pride were among, the first
things that caused the downfall of the
Nephites as a nation, by the wearing of
fine and costly apparel and all kind of
jewels and rich ornaments. They became
stiffnecked and proud in their hearts toward
the Lord their God. Let us learn a lesson
from them and cultivate the spirit of
humility one towards the other,and not look
down with contempt on those who are not
able to dress so well, for we should remem-
ber they might be the Lord’s poor and that
man looketh on the outward appearance
but the Lord looketh on the heart.
	Thinking of these things will do us good,
our love for the Gospel will be strengthened
and fortified and prepare us to pass through
trials and afflictions which the writer knows
some have an abundance of. We also
know we shall get the blessings the Lord
has promised by complying with His re-
quirements. One word, about the Salt
Lake City Temple that has just been dedi-
cated. I was privileged in going to see it
myself. It looked so grand and beautiful,
and oh! what a glorious influence I felt. It
was so peaceful and holy that I almost lost
myself in my thoughts. In thinking of
the goodness of God in permiting me to
come forth in this gospel dispensation and
to be made a recipient of such glorious bless-
ings as there are to be obtained in the
Temples.
	I could write much more but let this
suffice. Now is a day for all hearts to be
comforted, and filled with love one for
another so as to enable the Lord’s people to
stand firm in the faith whatever troublous
times may come.
	Respectfully, a Sister in the Gospel, 
				ISABELLA PRATT PRICE.
Mill Creek Ward, May 12th, 1893.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THIS year the Queen of England cele-
brated her birthday by bestowing many of
the honors she always showers at this time
upon the journalists. This proves how
great is her respect and her admiration for
all the noble service performed by the men
of the English press. She has knighted
John Tennill, the artist in Punch. It is
said that his picture of Gen. Gordon stand-
ing behind an earthwork and looking across
the desert for some sight of an English
soldier to rescue him did more than any
political speech or pamphlet to touch the
English hearts and rouse them to a sense
of duty to their deserted soldiers on the
Nile. Queen Victoria understands this,
which is why she has rewarded him.


