[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: A NEW DEPARTURE. | Author: Unknown]

A NEW DEPARTURE.

	ONE of the most unique and pleasant
excursions of the season, and quite new in
its character, was to Brigham City recently,
the party consisting of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple people and a few invited guests, the
First Presidency, the Presiding Bishop and
one or two others, besides those regularly
engaged in that sacred house. To President
Lorenzo Snow belongs the credit and the
honor of originating the idea of such an
appropriate holiday rest and entertainment.
Everything had been planned beforehand,
the party was to visit Brigham City and
places adjacent, and the saints in that vicinity
were delighted to have this opportunity of
welcoming to their generous hospitality, the
venerable President of the Church, and his
Counselors as also his immediate friends,
and brethren and sisters Temple workers,
find their own revered. President Lorenzo
Snow, who for so many years had been the
leading spirit in everything connected with
the welfare of the people in that Stake of
Zion, spiritual and temporal.
	Leaving Salt Lake City at 3, p. m. July
22nd, the train pulled out amid cheers and
parting salutes of bystanders who had
come to see the party off. The day was
fine but a thunder storm came up, and when
the party reached Brigham City the rain
was pouring. Horses and carriages were
waiting, but the hundreds of children who
had come out in white, with flags and ban-
ners were obliged to retreat to the opera
house for shelter,—however when the long
line of carriages was ready and began the
line of march, the storm had abated, and
the children were ranged in line each side
along the way, bowing, smiling and waving
their banners, and saluting President Wood-
ruff and the party, who in return saluted
them from the carriages in passing. After
driving through the principal streets and
counter-marching—the party were taken
to the places where provision had been
made to entertain them respectively, and
feasted and rested until evening—when the
old-fashioned party was held in the dancing
hall of the opera house, which was hand-
somely decorated for the occasion. The
music was excellent, and there were some
wonderful old-time memories awakened as
the brethren and sisters participated in the
square cotilions, minuets, Scotch reels and
Roger de Coverly etc. Brother Dunbar had
his bagpipes along and everywhere he

[Column 2]
amused and interested the company by way
of variety.  In fact we remarked several
times he was like the king’s jester, “so
witty and full of originality.” Miss Salm-
on gave The Massacre of Zoroaster admir-
ably, the singing by the Temple choir,
an daquartette of local singers, were a charm
ing feature of the evening.
	At nine a. m. Saturday morning the
party were again in carriages enroute to
Mantua; the morning was delightful, the
air refreshing after the shower of the day
previous. At Mantua again hundreds of
children greeted the party, many of them
never having seen President Woodruff or
his Counselors before. Mantua is beautifully
situated in a little peaceful vale hemmed in
by high mountains. Here the meeting
house was decorated with flowers and vines
and flowering plants and shrubs, the
streamers above the stand where the Presi-
dency were seated bore a Welcome in blue
and gold letters. Here President Woodruff
and both his Counselors also Apostles Lo-
renzo Snow and Franklin D. Richards each
made brief and appropriate speeches, en-
couraging the people and speaking in praise
of the beautiful farm homes, the enterprise
and thrift manifest on every side.
	The dinner at Mantua was a most de-
lightful success, in the larger room were six
tables, about twenty people were seated at
each of these, and in a smaller room we were
told there were three tables of about the
same seating capacity. The great variety
and the skilled cooking was indeed notic-
able. Beautiful vases of flowers ornament-
ed the scene, the largest and ripest straw-
berries and cherries added to the effect, and
honey in the comb white and pure, the most
delicious cream, together with all that makes
up a dinner fit for a king, or the most fas-
tidious Epicure was there in abundance—
“the tables” (might well have) groaned
with the weight of the feast.” After dinner
President Snow in the most pleasing man-
ner announced that toasts and sentiments
from the guests would be in order and
“opened the ball” himself in a humorous
way. This was followed by several of the
company some being called for and others
responding voluntarily. The Bishop of
Mantua had his share of congratulations,
and everything passed off pleasantly. While
the party were dining the school house
filled with children awaited the return of
the Presidency and party, who spoke to
them for a few minutes previous to leaving
on the return trip to Brigham City.
	On the way home the party were driven
past the reservoir which is on the top of a
high hill at the mouth of the canyon only
reached by a winding road, the water is
cold and of excellent quality, and in
sufficient quantity to supply the City.
	A concert in the evening at the Opera
House made a fitting finish of the day’s
enjoyment and festivities. The entertain-
ment of the evening at the Opera House
was a grand affair and the management for
the visitors and guests was quite perfect, as
indeed was the entire program from first to
last. The concert was given in honor of
the Salt Lake Temple Party. The archway
over the platform was artistically covered
with roses so beautifully arranged that none
but an accomplished artist who knew how
to make his work effective from the seats in
the body of the house, could have made it
such a success. The perfume of the sweet-
scented flowers pervaded the atmosphere of
the room. The concert began with music
by the Mendon Brass Band, followed by a

[Column 3]
song “Come where the Lilies Bloom” by
the Brigham City Choir, beautifully ren-
dered, Recitation, “The Martyred Mother.”
Ray Evans, very pathetic and feelingly
given showing thought and study of the
situation.  The Temple Choir, a
double quartette, “When Evening’s Twi-
light,” was brilliantly executed. Then there
was more music by the band, meanwhile
Brother W. C. Dunbar dressed in costume
for the old time favorite song “My Old
Wife and I.” A violin quartette by Mag-
nus Benson and others was one of the most
interesting features of this enjoyable concert.
An original poem given by Lula in her
quaint and sedate style was very well re-
ceived and heartily and graciously applaud-
ed.
(POEM BY LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.)
June is, I think, the happiest month of all the
year;
Its bounteous gifts of flow’rs and fruits, so
luxurious appear.
The laughing brooklet, and the bird’s sweet carol
to its mate,
All speak of gratitude and love, which should our
hearts elate.
The hearts of all who know the worth of friend-
ship being tried,
In little voyages, to and fro, upon Life’s Ocean
wide.
I’m wondering, if, the past year’s voyage, this
grand old Ship, at Sea,
Came freighted with such gifts for each, as it has
brought to me.

Not wealth of silver, or of gold; nor gems of
worldly kind;
But Heavenly joys, with faith increased, and won-
drous peace of mind
The kingdoms of this world can claim no place,
no parity,
Compared with the pure love of Christ, unfailing
charity,

And this rare gift true Friendship brings unto the
chaste and meek;
They do receive, and they do find, who humbly
ask and seek.
“Nearer my God to Thee,” we sing; if Christ’s
pure love we show,
We do approach Him, day by day, and nearer
like Him grow.
But of this beauteous summer month, and this
delightful place,
I thought to tell, yet wandered off, somehow, to
broader space.
Excuse me, I return, and would your kind at-
tention claim;
The First of June was Brigham’s Day, this City
bears his name;

The Salt Lake Temple he designed; truly appro-
priate,
Their first vacation, all its workers, thus should
celebrate.
What generous hospitality from our Box Elder
Friends!
How can we praise our God enough for all the
good He sends?
Mantua—for the birth place named, of him who
wisely plan’d
This sacred, great Excursion, how excellent and
grand
Its situation in the hills, its people brave and
kind;
What pleasing memories often will present them
to the mind.

Again, of Heber Kimball think, who stood by
Brigham’s side;
Long o,er the great Endowment work commis-
sioned to preside;
We rarely think to mention that these men, so
true in heart,


Had birthday's both in June, and only fourteen
	days apart.
We visit Willard City named for one most 
	staunch and good;
’Twas Willard who with Brigham Young and 
	Heber C. once stood.
Why not to his dear memory a loving tribute
	pay?
Remembering that the Twenty-fourth of June
	was his birthday.
The Deseret News, to whose good works, so very
	much we owe,
Was Willard Richard’s paper first, forty-four
	years ago;
The first Post Office Utah knew, he was the 
	Master in; 
(’Tis hard to pause when of such men biogra-
	phies begin.)

But I would turn again to God, and to His blessed
	Son;
And mention, if I may, something which they for
	us have done:
A year ago last Spring, we, through the Prophet
	Wilford learned,
The key in favor of the Saints, in Jesus’ hand was
	turned.
Who has not felt the force of this? Who has not
	seen the pow’r
Of God, more plainly manifest,since that event-
	ful hour?
I testify that I do know, and in each fiber sense
The truth of Wilford Woodruff’s words,and God’s
	Omnipotenee.
Christ holds the key; that loving hand through
	which the nail was driv’n;
His prayers unto His Father reach; His people 
	were forgiven;
Their offering was accepted, and, with Joseph at
	the head
Of this Last Dispensation,  unerringly they’re
	led.
God bless the Prophets of our day, who for His
	people care;
And bless the honest, pure in heart,and virtuous,
	everywhere;
Who love the truth, and speak the truth, and
	live it, day by day;
And help us all to overcome the evils in our way.

God bless the Temple workers,and great light on
	them bestow;
Especially our President and head, Lorenzo
	Snow.
And multiply all blessings on our kind Box Elder
	friends;
Then, how can we praise God enough, for all the
	good He sends.

	Instrumental selections by Holst 
Brothers were exceptionally good and Mrs.
Maggie Hull sang with much feeling a
favorite Scotch Ballad.
	B. M. Young who was to have given
"Chinese Imitation in character, gave in-
stead some comic acting in costume, which
created quite a furore with the younger part
of the audience, and then came a comic
selection by a few of the Brigham City
Choir “Peter, Peter Pumpkin Eater.”
	Changing the character of the entertain-
ment was an original true story composed
and read by Nephi Anderson.  The reading
and the scenes described were restful and
true to life and portrayed the talent of the
young man in story telling, though the
pictures were not so powerfnlly drawn as
to be at all exciting.  Next came Brother
Dunbar with his wonderful Scotch Bag-
pipes which never failed to be “a drawing
card” for the applause of the audience,
especially with his peculiar explanations,
given so graphically as no one else could
do but Brother Dunbar himself.  Mrs.

[column 2]
Armeda S. Young gave the recitation
“Whistling In Heaven,” getting a full
share of applause from the audience. “The
Whippoorwill’s Song” by the Brigham
City choir was sweetly and effectively given,
and music by the Mendon Brass Band
closed the brilliant performance; the verdict
of all was a most delightful evening.
	Sunday morning dawned beautiful and
bright, and early the streets began to fill
with boys and girls, young men and maid-
ens wending their way from all parts of
the city towards the meeting house, where
at 10 a. m. the Sunday school exercises
began.
	President Woodruff and his counselors
George Q. Cannon (Supt. of Sunday
Schools) and Joseph F. Smith, and Presi-
dent Lorenzo Snow, Apostle F. D. Richards,
President Rudger Clawson and counselors
of Box Elder Stake were in the stand.
Other brethren and sisters of the visitors
were on the platform and the sight was in-
deed a charming and glorious one. The
body of the house filled with the younger
children was like a flower garden only far
more effective because instead of flowers
only, there were the intelligent faces and
bright eyes beaming with joy and happiness
of many hundreds of children, the “Hope
of Israel.”  There were some exercises
excellently well rendered, both in singing
and recitation, but the time was mostly
occupied by the First Presidency who made
brief addresses and asked a few questions
suited to the occasion.
	At 2 p. m. the Tabernacle was filled with
the grown people who had given place to
the children in the morning,and the preach-
ing by the First Presidency was solemn and
impressive, though full of encouragement
and hope to those who were trying to live
their religion and follow the Savior’s teach-
ing. President Woodruff and his counse-
lors seemed filled with the Holy Spirit and
with a desire to bless and comfort the
people, and it must have been exceedingly
gratifying to the Saints in Box Elder to
have an opportunity of hearing the aged and
venerable President speak of his long and
wonderful experience in proclaiming the
Gospel from almost the commencement of
this work.  His intimate associations with
the Prophet Joseph his Brother Hyrum
and many of the Apostles who are now
passed behind the vail.  President Wood-
ruff’s sermon seemed almost like testimony
from the spirit world.
	Notwithstanding all the precious things
that were said during the morning and
afternoon services, the evening meeting was
even more intensely interesting and will
never be forgotten by those who were
present.  The singing was particularly ap-
propriate and elevating  The stand was
filled with the presiding authorities of the
Church and of Box Elder Stake of Zion
Bishops etc. as well as Elders who
were Temple workers.  Meeting opened
with singing the anthem, “I will lift up
mine eyes” by Brigham City Choir, prayer
by Bishop Valentine, singing “Hymn of
Praise” by Temple Choir.  President
Snow announced that there would be short
speeches from one to five minutes by the
Temple workers including himself.
	Bishop John R. Winder was the first
speaker, he was followed by Elder John
Nicholsen chief recorder, Elders Hiram
Groesbeck, N. W. Jones, James Sharp, W.
W. Riter, Jos. H. Dean, Bishop Romney,
Elder William Salmon, Bishop Sheets,
Elder Theodore McKean, Elders W. C.

[column 3]
Dunbar. McAllister and L. A. Wilson.
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith
and Minnie J. Snow, each spoke
very effectively for a few minutes, after
which Elders Samuel W. Richards and
Adolph Madson made short speeches.
	President Woodruff addressed himself to
the large congregation most impressively
by asking the question “Of all the mil-
lions of the inhabitants of earth, who
among them are assured that the judg-
ments of God will not overtake them?
He answered “None but those who have
the priesthood and are entitled to its bless-
ings and privileges.  The Lord has com-
menced his work of pouring out judgments
on the earth as has been prophesied by in-
spired men.  The powers of the air are
more destructive than ever, and this means
something.  The Priesthood has power and
the heavens will listen to the prayers of
those holding the holy Priesthood.  Great
changes are at our doors and many who are
present and their children will live to
see them.”
	*	*	*	*	*	*	
	President Woodruff seemed filled to
overflowing with the spirit of prophecy and
solemnly testified that the angels had left
the portals on high and were now among
the nations of the earth.  His remarks
were full of inspiration and the spirit of
prophecy, and the impression made upon
the congregation can never be effaced from
the memory of those who listened to his
voice on that wonderful occasion.  Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon also bore a power-
ful testimony. The meeting was closed
with the entire assembly singing the
Doxology.   Apostle Franklin D. Rich-
ards pronounced the benediction.
	Monday morning the company proceeded
in carriages to Willard City, stopping a
few moments at Three Mile Creek where
the Sunday School children and their
teachers had gathered with flags and ban-
ners to welcome the President and party.
The Presidency responded, greeting the
children happily, and the party wended
their way to Willard, arriving in time for
the meeting at ten o’clock.  The Meeting
House was beautifully decorated with
mottoes, banners and flowers, and the
people were assembled and waiting.  The
exercises were very pleasing, consisting of
music vocal and instrumental, and ad-
dresses were made by the Presidency,
Brother Dunbar brought out his bagpipes
and Mrs. Hull sung “My Western Home,”
very expressivly. “The Sleigh Ride” by
the Willard City Choir, was heartily ap-
plauded. There are some very fine voices
among that choir.  The dinner given in the
City Hall was an immense success; here
again the tables were loaded with every
variety of fruit, vegetables etc. and a dis-
play of dainty cooking and handsomely
furnished,and hall and tables decorated for
the occasion.
	A photographer was on hand with his
apparatus and the company as a whole
seated at the table was photographed.
	After dinner the party met the children in
the meeting house, and the Presidency
addressed them in their usual kind and
fatherly manner.  At Willard the party
took the train for Salt Lake City.
	The whole affair was peculiarly interest-
ing and entertaining.  Nothing happened
to mar the pleasure of the party,the greatest
harmony prevailed in all the diversified
gatherings, and it will long be remembered
as an important and pleasurable event.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						157


158							WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


