EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	After reading the letter in the last EXPON-
ENT, from Kent, England, to the Primary As-
sociations of Box Elder Stake; our sympathies
were moved in behalf of the children of the
Saints in foreign lands. Our Primary Associa-
tion had the proceeds of a party on hand to get
presents for the children. The President, Mrs.
Mary A. P. Schow, read the letter to the As-
sociation, explained to them the situation of
many poor children in the world; then took a
vote whether they would rather have presents
or emigrate a needy child, their sympathies
were awakened, directly all said they would
rather send for a little boy or girl. Have re-
ceived since in donations form five cents to one
dollar, have $18,00 already towards the good
cause.
	We also spoke on the subject of assisting to
gather the Saints, in our Young Ladies As-
sociation; contrasted our situation with that of
the Saints, in the world. A majority of mem-


bers were present. We opened a subscription,
all present were willing to donate one dollar
each, to emigrate a young lady. Much can
be accomplished by united action. Now it is
the beginning of the emigrating season, there
are five months ahead. I thought when read-
ing the report in the Deseret News, of the
Young Ladies and Primary Aassciations, if
every member would donate one dollar, twenty-
five cents, per month, for four months,a mighty
work could be accomplished, in assisting to
gather Israel. Those that, have been gathered
from the nations know the acute longings the
Saints experience, and their desires to gather
to Zion. Having spent the first seventeen
years of my life in the old country, I know a
little about the situation of the working classes.
	Sisters let us put aside the vanities of the
world and assist in ameliorating the condition
of our sex, and in bringing those of our faith
to Zion; that they may enjoy the protection
and status that we enjoy through the blessings
of our religion.
	We all have ability. In the emigration sea-
son, that is a strong point with me, I want to
assist myself and use an influence with others.
Will let you hear from us again in the course
of three or four months, when we close our
subscription.
	The President of the Young Mens M. I. A.,
of this place said he would use his influence
with their members to assist us young ladies in
the Gospel.
