CONSTITUTlON OF UTAH.

	The Constitutional Convention, which con-
vened on the 10th of last month, for the purpose
of drafting a Constitution for the proposed State
of Utah, has so far completed its work that the
Convention has adjourned until the 6th of June
proximo. Meantime a Committee of five, to-
gether with the President and Secretary of the
Convention, will take such steps as are necessary
to prepare the way for the elections to be held in


all the various precincts, and the people having
become acquainted with the Constitution by
perusal of the printed copies, which will be pre
viously circulated, will thus be prepared to judge
whether they will vote "yes" or "no" for its
ratification or rejection. The members of the
Convention unanimously adopted it—now it
remains to be seen what the people will do.
	There has been a committee of five members
appointed by the President of the Convention to
prepare a Memorial to Congress. This Memorial
is to be presented with the Constitution or to
open the way for it. Everything pertaining to
each article of the Constitution has been care-
fully studied and discussed, not only in specia
Committee, but in Committee of the whole, in
open Assembly.
	It may seem strange to some that so much
time has been devoted to the preparation of
something which it is very doubtful whether
Congress will even look at favorably, but it is
the duty of every free-born citizen, to seek by all
lawful and just means to attain a free Republi-
can form of government, such as is guaranteed
under state rule. There is no people more de-
serving of this blessing than the people of Utah,
whether Congress will thus decide in their favor
or not; but eventually Utah under that, or some
other name, will become as powerful as any of
her sister States. Assured of this fact the peo-
ple of the Territory who have already achieved
wonders in many ways, can well afford to wait
for the rulers of this nation to consider this im-
portant question. It is greatly to be hoped that
the women of this Territory as well as the men
will study the Constitution, which will soon be
in their hands, thoroughly; not be indifferent
feeling there is little prospect of its becoming
valid and effective—but examine it so carefully
as to be able to converse intelligently about it,
and see if it comes up to their ideas of a free
government.
	The constitution just framed is the only one
we have any knowledge of, in which women
have had a voice. This is something all women
may be justly proud of; it shows the advance-
ment of thought on the woman question. It is
one of the best proofs that could be given that
men are in earnest in giving woman the ballot,
and it depends largely upon woman herself in
the future whether she shall have a voice in
making the laws by which she and her
children are to be governed.
	But woman will, for the age proclaims it, and
man true to the instincts of the hour is becoming
converted to this theory which a few years ago
would have been considered very ultra.


