UTAH NOT REPRESENTED.

	The decision so long pending, has been given in
the House of Representatives at Washington
D. C., by a majority vote, against the Hon.
George Q. Cannon, Delegate from Utah. Mr.
Cannon was fairly elected which was clearly
proven. His naturalization did not stand in the
way, but only the simple fact of his confession,
to the practise of plural marriage, believing it to
be a divine command. Then he is simply ex-
cluded on account of his religion. This is es-
tablishing a fatal precedent. Alas! our poor
country !
	We are sincerely sorry for those Representa-
tives to be deprived of the influence of so good,
so noble, so genuine-souled a man as George Q.
Cannon. It is to their own injury. The Lord
will over-rule it all for the good of his people.
"He moves in a mysterious way his wonders to
perform." The world may rest assured that
when the Saints have done their duty in i-
terceding and pleading with Governors and rul-
ers etc., that the Almighty will come out of his
hiding-place and sorely vex the nations.
	The sorrow the Latter-day Saints feel is not
on account of Mr. Cannon, but that this great
and free Republic, founded upon the broad prin-
ciple of equal rights and privileges to all men
has so far retrograded to be capable of such a
decision. What may men not look for? What
may they not fear when Congress legislates
against religion?
	If, as many believe, and as has been published
by some of the newspapers, politicians desire to
make political capital out of Utah—it will prove
a lasting disgrace to those who have had any
part or lot in the matter.
	Those honorable men who opposed Mr. Can-
non's being denied his seat, as the Delegate from
Utah, will have a clear conscience, sleep well
and be able to hold up their heads in the pres-
ence of all men and all women who love liberty
and hate oppression in any form.
	We are sincerely sorry that such an outrage
could have been perpetrated in this "free and hap-
py land;" not only on account of the Latter-day
Saints, but that of our dearly beloved country, of
which every American citizen has in times past
been so justly proud. But this is only the begin-
ning of the end. Is this a government "by the
people and for the people," if so, may not all peo-
ple be represented irrespective of religion?


