SOME THINGS THE ANCIENTS ATE.

	It is interesting to read of the various articles
of diet used in the different ages of the world, by
its inhabitants. Judging by the few varieties of
food mentioned in the Bible we should infer that
the early inhabitants of the world lived rather
plain, not to say coarsely. Although a sacred
and historical work like the Bible is hardly the
book in which to look for the Universal bill of
fare and perhaps gives only an imperfect idea of
it, though at that very early period of which it
first gives an account, the varieties of food must
of necessity have been few.
	That eaten previous to the fall, by our first
parents about 4000 years B. C., was the fruit of
the garden of Eden, for God placed them there
and gave to them for food "every herb bearing
seed and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree
yielding seed."
	The first time we read of bread, was when the
Lord was going to banish them from the garden
and said to Adam "In the sweat of thy face shalt
thou eat bread, till thou return unto the
ground."
	After the flood every thing was delivered into
the hands of Noah and his sons about 2348 years
B. C. God said unto them "Every moving
thing that liveth shall be meat for you, even as
the green herb have I given you all things."
About this time wine was made.
	The first time we read of flesh being eaten
was when the three strangers visited Abraham,
(though no doubt it was used long before) Sarah
made the cakes on the hearth and Abraham
"took butter and milk, and the calf which he
had dressed and set it before them; and he stood
by them under the tree and they did eat" he
died 1821 years B. C. This gives us some clue
to the time they visited him.
	Jacob bought Esau's birthright for some red
pottage and Isaac ate savory meat and bread
when he blessed Jacob, this was about 1759 B. C.
	In Exodus we read of oil, spice, milk, and
honey, that was in Moses time and he was born
1571 B. C.
	Danied preferred pulse to the provisions of the
King's table. In the wilderness the Hebrews
sighed for the "fish the cucumbers, the melons,
the leeks, the onions and the garlic."
	We read that Jesus Christ often appeased his
hunger with bread and fish, though plain diet
then and for some hundreds of years before, was
a matter of taste or necessity for while the Per-
sians 600 years B. C., lived principally on bread
and cresses the Medes lived in luxury.
	Tea was taken to England in 1610, and coffee
in 1652. Cauliflowers, beans, peas, and cabbage,
were introduced about 1660. It was not till
about 1546 that salads, carrots and turnips were
known in England, and potatoes were first
planted in Ireland in 1610. Currants, cherries
and apricots were introduced during the reign of
Henry 8th, consequently before 1547, and
peaches during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
	In all probability the art of boiling down the
juice of the sugar cane and making raw sugar


was an invention of the 15th century, but refined
sugar has only been in use about 300 years.
	Thus we see that many, now very common
edibles have not been known till a comparatively
recent date, and other industries and arts have
improved accordingly, and though almost every
thing existed primitively in some state, it has
taken man's ingenuity and labor to bring things
to their present perfection and uses.
