SPENCER’S LETTERS.

	This interesting work consists of a series of
fifteen letters written by Orson Spencer,in the
years 1842 and 1847. They are answers to
the earnest inquiries of a clergyman of the
Baptist Denomination, who had formerly been
an intimate friend of the author. The first
letter was written in the city of Nauvoo, the
others in the city of Liverpool, while the author
was on a mission in Europe.
	The book is remarkable for its beautiful flow
of language,which holds the reader spell-bound.
Even after he has read it he finds himself re-
ferring to passages that are particularly fascin-
ating. Throughout the whole volume, one can
see that the writer evinces great anxiety con-
cerning the welfare of his friend, sincerely
wishing that he might become a convert to the
“Mormon” faith. The author, remembering
when a clergyman of the same Church; how he
himself struggled against this peculiar religion,
endeavoring in vain to reject it, has sympathy
for the Baptist Minister. Not one word of cen-
sure does he return his inquiries; but by calm
and conclusive arguments, he shows how in-
ferior are the churches of the world compared
with the one of which he is a member.
	His writings show that he is not a religious
enthusiast. He uses no extravagant expres-
sions to show forth the purity of his religion.
If he makes an assertion, he cites the reader to
Scripture or history, to verify the truth of his
statement. Such appropriate language, un-
selfish thoughts, and generous expressions con-
clusively prove that the writer was inspired.
	His comparison of Joseph Smith with Jesus
Christ is notable for its eloquence yet simplicity.
The modern prophet is spoken of in such glow-
ing terms as almost to indicate devotion on the
tart of the writer; althongh in another passage
he expresses an aversion to the worship of
man.


The eighth epistle treats especially of the nat-
ure of Deity and his abode. His assurance of
the existence of God, and his being a person
having a material body, is certainly gratifying.
And as the Divine Being has a real body,
heaven, his abode, must be a place of reality,
tangible and visible to its occupants. The
terms in which he speaks of his deceased wife,
the joy in the expectation of meeting her in a
future state, are indescribably pathetic. He
here showes the absurdity in supposing that
the soul dies with the body.
	But particuarly is the writing sublime, in the
description of the martyrdom of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith. So vividly he portrays the
awful gloom and anguish that pervaded the
hearts of the people of Nauvoo, that the reader
unconsciously partakes of a melancholy feeling
in keeping with those of the bereaved inhabit-
ants, of that beautiful city, at the time of the
fearful tragedy.					CAMEO.
	April 1, 1882.


