PEACE.

	"Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one
mind, live in peace, and the God of peace will
be with you."
	So said St. Paul to the Saints in his day, but
I think it is applicable to the Saints today.
It almost seems as though storm clouds were
fast gathering, but let us as Saints "be perfect,"
then we shall have nothing to fear, for they
that are with us are more than they that are
against us; the Lord is on our side and He will
fight our battles for us, if we will only make
ourselves worthy of his protection and care.
To be worthy—to be perfect, we must subdue
the evil that is within us, correct every influence
that arises within our own hearts that is op-
posed to the sanctifying influence of the grace
of God; then may we "be of good comfort" for
we shall have the approval of our heavenly
Father. We must also "be of one mind" there
must be no jarring nor contention in our midst,


we must "live in peace" one with another, do-
ing unto others as we would have them do unto
us, and carry peace with us wherever we go. I
know that to be perfect, to be of one mind, to
live in peace one with another under all cir-
cumstances, we must be Saints indeed, for it
requires every wrong influence that is within
us as individuals to be subdued until every evil
desire is eradicated, and every feeling of our
hearts brought into entire subjection to the will
of Christ. We are professedly Saints and it
behooves us to strive to live as such and to know
and understand ourselves that we may order
our lives before Him, whom we acknowledge as
our Father and God in such a manner that we
shall not need his chastening hand.
	Brigham Young once said, that when we had
overcome every besetting sin within ourselves,
then we should be able to overcome every foe
without, and we should live and outlive all the
slander, prejudice and falsehoods that had been
heaped upon us. Sisters let us be alive to our
duties let us be prayerful, watchful and live
our religion day by day, then surely will peace
and the God of peace be with us.
								NELL.


