THOUGHTS.

	All alone, yet not alone for I feel that the
Spirit of God is here, and when we have the
Spirit of God in our hearts, we need never feel
lonely, but may always find something to think
of that is good and will do us good; indeed I
think it is good to be alone sometimes, so that
we can recall our past acts, and see where we
can improve, for I care not how good, or how
charitable a person may be they can always
improve if they will try; and we must ever
remember there is no standing still in the king-
dom of God; if we are not improving ourselves,
we are certainly losing what we have gained,
so it behooves us to be "up and doing” or per-
haps when the Bridegroom comes we shall be
found among the five foolish virgins, without
oil in our lamps; and there will be no time to
buy then. Now is the time to trim our lamps
and take care to keep them burning bright.
To do this, we have no time to waste, for Satan
is ever on the alert, and unless we watch our-
selves very carefully we are liable to step aside.
We must not only watch ourselves but pray
earnestly for wisdom and strength to withstand
the snares of the evil one. I sometimes think
if we were only as wide-awake as he is, how
much faster we should progress, but some of
us seem to be half asleep. Sisters let us bestir
ourselves, let us watch our children more care-
fully teach them to pray and to have faith in
God; see that they keep good company, teach
them to observe, “The Word of Wisdom,” do not
allow them to follow after the fashions of the
world. It grieves me sometimes to see how
careless some mothers are in regard to their off-
spring, they seem to think that when they are
fed and clothed their work is done, and the lit-
tle one is left to seek its own amusement: no
wonder they are led to do wrong, God will
hold us responsible for these things. Sisters
let us wake up and trim our lamps while yet the
chance is ours, for soon the cry will go forth
“Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to
meet him."						JEMIMA.


Senator Paddock has been appointed one of
the five Commissioners for Utah.


