THE DINING-ROOM.

	The dining-room should be one of the most
pleasant and sunny rooms in the house, in fact,
if it could be arranged, I would have the house
so constructed that the sun could shine in every
room from its first rising beam to the parting
glow that shimmers in the golden west.
	Oftentimes it is only in the dining-room
that the family meet during the week, except
on Sunday. Father and the older boys are off
to business before the little folks' eyes are open,
or the young ladies have recovered from the
effects of the last night's dance. Eeverything in
this room should suggest pleasant thoughts.
What a depressing effect one of those dark, sep-
ulchral apartments has on every appetite except
the most healthy! It is more suggestive of cof-
fins and the dampness of the charnel house,
than of good cheer, and the mirth that is so
great a foe to dyspepsia. A few bright, well
chosen pictures should adorn the walls, but if
you keep a boarding house, and wish to save
provisions, select those representing murders,
executions, and other equally festive scenes.
	If this room is also used as the family sitting-
room and library, a book case should stand in
one corner, and a cabinet of curiosities be placed
in some convenient spot, while a small table for
mother's sewing, and several low easy chairs
and ottomans should not be forgotten. A fer-
ney, or a few pot plants are desirable. An
English ivy trained round the room has a
charming effect, and requires but little care, as
it will endure a considerable degree of cold.
	In these days very few use the old-fashioned
square table, but if you must use one, have the
corners taken off, and then get a couple of
rounded pieces made to fit on the ends. These
can be fastened on by means of two strips of
board nailed on the under side; and then run
through the boxing of the table in holes sawed
for the purpose. To get this done requires but
little trouble or expense, and you will be amply
repaid by its greater convenience and the bet-
ter style in which such a shaped table can be
set.
	It is always economy to buy good table linen.
A course, rough, brown table-cloth gives every-
thing a cheap, soiled appearance, while if a good
quality of white is chosen, everything will wear
an inviting look. A fine, well-ironed table-
cover, if brushed after each meal instead of be-
ing shaken, and with mats under hot dishes,

[Column 2]
and an oil-cloth under the little one's plate,
should last two weeks, and look better at the
end of that time than a clean brown one.
Washing and ironing wear linen more than the
actual use, and by economizing in these pro-
cesses, you will soon save enough to pay for the
increased expense.
	By keeping the table constantly set, you will
save much time and troubled hurry, when pre-
paring for a meal. Clean the cloth after meals
with a brush kept for the purporse. A clean
wing will answer. If you take it off, be sure
to fold in the same creases in which it was
folded when ironed. Let the castor, spoon-
holder, sugar-bowl and salts remain on from
time to time. After everything is arranged,
cover between meals with an old table-cloth, too
thin for further use, freshly ironed, and stiffened
with thin starch, or a piece of white net such
as is used for fly screens.
	If you are obliged to use one room for both
kitchen and dining-room, it will, perhaps, be
necessary to have the dining table cleared and
set back during the afternoon, but when laid
for dinner, let it remain till after breakfast
next morning. Those who have never tried
this plan will be surprised at the comfort it will
give, and the time and labor it will save.
	Nice mats for hot dishes and tea-pots can be
crocheted out of tidy cotton, in the ordinary
close stitch. If you wish them very thick,
crochet them over wicking, Very handsome
ones can also be made by covering round or ob-
long pieces of pasteboard, with scarlet opera
flannel, and then sewing on the common white
crimped buttons which can be bought for a
cent or two a dozen. Use any design you
please.
	A cosey to keep the tea hot can be made
from the flannel cut to fit the pot, the buttons
put on in a tasty manner, and a loop handle
made at the top by which to remove it. Line
with several thicknesses of flannel, old is just
as good. If the family are regular to their
meals, the tea or coffee may be further kept hot
by placing the pot on a thick piece of iron like
a scale weight, or on a round piece of freestone,
heated for the purpose.
	Have all food cut squarely and evenly, and
served in the best possible shape. Crumbs, ir-
regular sections of pie, sloppy dishes and dis-
order, have a evry depressing effect on the
appetite.—Ex.


THE Married Woman's Property Bill was
introduced in the House of Lords by the LORD
CHANCELLOR. It has passed through the stage
of committee, and will in all probability pass the
third reading in the House of Lords, and come
down to the House of Commons soon after the
Easter recess. The Bill, as it now stands as am-
ended by the LORD CHANCELLOR, though in some
respects capable of improvement, is so great an
advance of justice compared with the existing
rule, that we should have cause for the deepest
thankfulness if it becomes law.
	The fate of the measure in the House of
Commons will depend greatly on the exigencies
of the session, and on the degree of support
which may be given it by the Government. If
it can be brought on without obstruction and
discussed upon its merits, there can be little
doubt of the result. The principle of the Bill
was accepted in the measure which was passed
for Scotland last session, and the mind of the
Legislature is now so fully committed to it that
the enactment of a measure to secure to married
women absolute posssssion and full control of
their own property seems only a question of
time and adequate efforts on behalf of those in-
terested in the subject.—Ex.


It is said that Senators Cockrell and Vest
favor the appointment of Phebe Cousins as
one of the Utah commissioners.


