JENNY LIND GOLDSCHMIDT.

"She, more sweet than any bird on bough,
	Would often times amongst them have a part,
And strive to pass, as she could well enow,
	Their native language by her skilful art."

	What would life be without music, without
the sweet sounds that cheer and purify our
souls and bring us nearer heaven and nearer
God? There are few, if any, who have not
felt its holy influence. Even the song-bird, as
he flits from bough to bough, has a sweet song
of cheer for us all. There is nothing that so
soothes the troubled soul and calms it to rest.
Music has moved the heart that seemed as
stone and melted it to tears. It is the one art
that seems fitted to all times and places; it
matters not whether we are sad or joyous, we
still love music. Now and then we meet with
one of its great interpreters and of these per-
haps none are more worthy of the fame they
have acquired than is Jenny Lind.
	This queen of song was born at Stockholm,
Sweden, October 6th, 1821. Her parents,
though poor, were very respectable people, her
father being a teacher of languages, and her
mother a school mistress. When Jenny Lind
was twenty months old she could sing the
airs of her native land with great perfectness.
When three years of age she seemed to care
for nothing but music, and would sit alone for
hours and sing until her little heart would
swell with rapture, as she sung song after song
with the correctness and expression of a
woman. When she was nine years of age an
actress, by the name of Lunberg, while passing,
heard the silvery tones of her voice and was

[Column 2]
so charmed that she at once went to Jennie's
parents and persuaded them to allow her to be
trained for the opera. After gaining their
consent, Madame Lunberg had the pleasure of
conducting her to M. Croelius, one of the most
noted musicians of Sweden. He at once be-
came perfectly enchanted with her voice, as
well as the sweet simplicity of her manner, and
resolved to present her to Count Pucke, man-
ager of the king's theatre. It is customary in
Europe for conductors of royal opera houses
to educate and train pupils for the stage, and
they generally have a school attached for this
purpose. M. Croelius succeeded in presenting
her to the Count, but when he saw the pale
slender girl of ten years before him he said, in
a harsh tone, What! this ugly creature, with
such feet and such a face? She will never be
presentable. No, we can have nothing to do
with her. The old teacher became enraged
and knowing well the power of her voice said,
then, poor as I am, I will take her. The con-
ductor seemed not a little abashed, when he
heard the earnest remarks of the old gentleman
and after sometime he consented to hear the
child sing. And, as her little bosom swelled
with indignation, she sung such notes as she
had never sung in all her life. Before she had
finished her song it is needless to say that the
Count changed his mind, and she was at once
admitted to the school and placed under the
immediate training of the best musicians. Now
and then during the season the children of this
school were required to take part in little
plays written expressly for them, and it was in
one of these that Jenny Lind first made her
appearance before the public, in the eleventh
year of her age. Her part was that of a
beggar girl; it was not a favorite part, but she
sung with so much feeling that the whole
audience were spell-bound; she afterwards ap-
peared quite frequently in the little plays and
was so successful that all Stockholm considered
her a prodigy; but just when her future seemed
so bright, a cloud suddenly overspread her
horizon, her voice failed her; she gave up the
opera, but continued four years studying in-
strumental music and composition. During
these four years, that seemed a lifetime to the
poor disappointed girl, she had blossomed into
a beautiful woman. And on her seventeenth
birthday it so happened that a concert was
given, the principal feature of which was the
fourth act of Robert le Diable, in which the
part of Alice was assigned to her, she had but
one solo and that was generally any thing but
popular with singers; she studied it diligently
but feared greatly lest her voice should forsake
her, entirely. So long had it been since she
looked the public in the face, that she had
emerged from childhood to a woman, and she
determined to overcome her fright, and, strange
as it may seem, her voice returned in all its
wonderful power and her beautiful notes vi-
brated the hearts of all present so much so
that they rose to their feet and greeted her
with thunders of applause. The next morn-
ing the conductor, after congraulating her, told
her that she was cast for the very important
part of Agatha, in Der Frieschutz; no words
can express the joy she felt on learning this; she
had always longed to play this part more than
any other, but of late had almost given up her
loved desire. It is said that at the last rehear-
sal of this piece the musicians laid down their
instruments to applaud her, she sung with so
much power. This was her first appearance in
the royal opera and on the night of perform-
ance the spectators were not only pale with joy,
but there was scarcely one who did not shed
tears. This was followed by repeated sucesses
until she become the favorite of all Stockholm,
but her voice, from over exertion, she saw was
again failing her, and she felt the necessity of
having better instruction than her own country
afforded. She traveled through Norway and

[Column 3]
Sweden with her father, giving concerts in
order to obtain means to go to Paris and study
under Garcia. These concerts were a perfect
success, and she at once went to Paris. Her
interview with Garcia was very disheartening,
he told her that she had had a voice, but was
on the point of losing it. You must, he said,
rest for three months, and then return to me
and I will do all in my power for you. When
the time had expired she came back refreshed
and her voice was now ready for cultivation.
During her residence in Paris she had the honor
of singing before Meyerbeer, who instantly per-
ceived the fine quality of her voice; after this
he gave her a grand rehearsal with full orchestra;
she sung the solos in the scenes from the favorite
operas, and all the musicians were delighted
with her manner and voice. This completed her
musical education. She returned home, gave
performances, and received several invitations
to sing at Copenhagen, where she appeared be-
fore large audiences. The students of the
University there gave her a serenade by torch
light. This was indeed quite an honor, as she
was the first one on whom such favor had ever
been bestowed. She was very benevolent and
frequently gave concerts for the benefit of the
poor, and was always doing something for those
who needed assistance. At Berlin she was pro-
nounced the best singer in Europe, and at
Vienna her success was beyond all precedent.
She soon afterwards went to London to sing at the
Queen's Theatre, and while there it is said that
no one was more enchanted with her voice than
La Blanche the celebrated basso. He remark-
ed one evening that her every note was a pearl;
she was very much pleased with the compli-
ment, and sometime afterward, when she be-
came better acquainted with him she deter-
mined to remind him of the remark; she went
up to him and humbly asked him if he would be
kind enough to lend her his hat; he seemed
very much confused but immediately handed it
to her; she retired to a corner of the room and
after singing an air into the hat, she returned
and begging him to kneel, said, Signor, I have
made you a rich man, here is a hat full of
pearls. When she appeared in London the
theatre was wholly incapable of holding the
mass of people that poured forth from all parts
to hear this wonderful singer, and many
hundreds were unable to hear her at all, the
struggle for tickets was so great. After two
years of continued triumph, she concluded to
quit the stage and sing only in the concert room.
Her last performance on the stage was in May,
1849, when she played before the Queen of
England, and a vast assembly of distinguished
personages. In October, 1849, she came to
America. Thousands of people greeted her
on the shore when she landed. Her first ap-
pearance was at Castle Garden, where five
thousand people assembled. This was the
largest audience before which she had ever ap-
peared, and such was their appreciation, that
the last notes of her first song could not be heard
for the acclamations of joy from the people.
She sung all over the United States and gained
all the fame and honor possible for one to win
in the musical world. While in America, she
met Atto Goldschmidt, a pianist and composer
of great note, with whom she had studied in
Germany. Their friendship soon ripened into
love, and they were married at Boston, in 1851.
She resided for sometime in Northampton
Mass., and then returned to Europe. She has
always been admired by the English people for
her domestic accomplishments, and tender
attachment to home and family. The last
time that she appeared in public her voice
still retained all its sweetness and power. At
her home in London she has devoted a great
part of her time to training young ladies for
the concert room; but it will be long ere one
will attain the perfection of song that did
Jenny Lind.					BEATRICE.


