PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Is polygamy essential, and would it do vio-
lence to the conscience of the Mormon people
to drop this tenet of their faith?
	The above question was asked by a much,
and justly, esteemed gentleman in Missouri.
The following reply was not originally intend-
ed for publication, but I have decided to have
it printed, thinking there might be other hon-
orable and highminded gentlemen, who enter-
tain an honest prejudice against a principle
they do not understand; if such there be, I ask
them to read a woman's imperfect vindication
of the purity of women whose claim to respec-
tibility the American Congress are endeavoring
to legislate out of existence, to read, not
that they may believe, but that they may do
justice to the honest belief of others.
	All men of deepest scientific research agree
upon one fact: That in nature's laboratory
there is absolutely no waste, all existing elements
are therein utilized, and with Him who gov-
erns the forces of nature, economy is a fixed
law.
	Would it not be wise in man, finding him-
self endowed with reason, and allowed the free
use of his agency and further being assured
that he will be held responsible for his own
mistakes, to take a lesson from nature and
economize the brief period allotted him to live
by endeavoring to make himself innocently
happy, and also by taking that course which
reason assures him will secure his happiness in
the life beyond? We are told that the Scrip-
tures were given us for our learning and profit.
In them we find recorded a promise made by
God to Abraham that in him and his seed
should all the nations of the earth be blessed,
and those among them who should keep his
commandments He promised an everlasting in-
heritance. An inheritance could not be ever-
lasting in our finite state, as death would break
the contract; therefore it is evident that the
promise made to Abraham has not yet been
fulfilled. A detail of the events which we, as
a people, believe will take place before it will
be fulfilled would take too much time and space,
but I will mention a few promiment ones, as the
motives which inspire our course of action
are closely connected with them. We believe
that the house of Israel will rule this earth

[Column 2]
throughout the endless ages of eternity, and
that all who become heirs to salvation must
become identified with it; all that is neeessary
in order to do so is to obey the commandments
of God as they are made known unto us.
Jesus said unto the Jews, "If ye were Abra-
ham's children ye would do the works of
Abraham," and further, that God was able to
raise up children to Abraham out of the stones
of Jerusalem. All that remained of the
children of Israel after the dispersion of the
ten tribes were, after the death of Jesus and
the Apostles, scattered among the nations and
their identity as distinct tribes, with the ex-
ception of the Jews, was lost, but as the tribes
had intermarried a portion of the blood of all
the tribes was represented. Millions of their
descendants died without the knowledge that
their veins were warmed by the royal blood of
Israel. But the time is at hand when both
the living and the dead will receive a
knowledge of who they are, and of the prom-
ises concerning them. All Israel will be found,
but neither all of the living, nor all of the
dead, will be found worthy of salvation. God
is just, not a son or daughter of Abraham will
receive a blessing they do not merit, not a son
or daughter of Adam will be rejected who
obeys the law of God. The faithful Gentiles
will become heirs by adoption, and made
equal by the sealing power of the Priesthood.
But before the house of Israel can be organized
into a complete and perfect family, according
to the design of the Almighty, there is an
enormous work that must be performed. The
Gospel of the kingdom must be preached to
every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and
for this cause do we send missionaries to the
uttermost parts of the earth that all may re-
ceive the glorious invitation, "And the spirit
and the bride say, come. And let him that
heareth say, come. And let him that is athirst
come. And whosoever will, let him take of
the water of life freely." But the dead can-
not act for themselves as the spirit is not per-
fect without the body, therefore we must attend
to the necessary ordinances for them, as they
cannot be made perfect without us nor we
without them. For this cause do we pay tithing
and build temples, that we may have a
suitable place wherein these ordinances can be
attended to. It is an immense work, as nothing
has been done for the dead for eighteen cen-
turies. It is the mission of Elijah the Prophet
to assist in restoring the missing links which
connect the children of Israel with the fathers,
and for this cause was he translated, that having
a body and also the power of translation, he
could visit both the the living and the dead,
and thereby render great service when the time
for his mission to be fulfilled arrived. The
dead will hear the Gospel where they are, we
will officiate for them here, they will then have
the privilege of accepting or rejecting what
has been done for them.
	Now what has polygamy to do with all this?
I answer, much every way. In the first place,
we believe that when our ancestors hear the
Gospel they will be anxious to have their de-
scendants officiate for them, and also regard it
as a sacred duty to do so, but as many families
are represented by one, the labor is too great,
and for this cause do many enter into polygamy
that they may rear up sons and daughters to
assist in the work for the dead. But not for
this cause alone; many are actuated by affection,
but they also accept it as a direct revelation
from God, given in order that every man may
have the privilege of raising a family who de-
sires to do so. Our marriage ceremonies
take no cognizance of death; our contracts of
marriage are entered into for time and all
eternity (with the exception of widows, who
sometimes marry, but always with the mutual
understanding, that they are to be given back
to their own husbands in eternity). Now what


fact becomes manifest, either that a man who
has the misfortune to lose the wife of his youth
shall remain single to the day of his death, or
be hereafter, if not here, what many regard
with horror, a polygamist, or should the wife of
his youth be so unfortunate as to bear him no
children, he must needs come up in eternity a
leafless branch With us motherhood is the
crowning glory of womanhood, our families
are not kept within fashionable and convenient
limits either by infanticide or abortion; every
child is welcomed as a heritage from God. I
do not assume that polygamy is a system cal-
culated to enhance earthly happiness; I scarcely
think there is any one who would hazard the
assertion, that man is made happier by the
care of a large family, or woman by the con-
sciousness of divided love, but certainly there
is no degradation in laying the holiest affection
of the heart on the altar of duty. Was Jesus
degraded by the cross, or the Apostles by being
put to ignominious deaths? This people re-
ceive and practise polygamy as a revelation
from God, and regarding it as they do, see no
more cause to blush for their marriage relations
than has innocence for being innocent or purity
for being pure. I shall make no effort to con-
ceal the fact, nor do I deem it necessary to
apologize, for that which must, unavoidably
exist in a community gathered as this has been,
from all parts of the world, viz; that there are
those among us of inferior minds incapable of
appreciating sacred things, and this holiest
principle of the Gospel is to them like casting
pearls before swine, but they, as well as the rest
of mankind, have a right to their agency, and
we have no right to restrict them in the exercise
of it. Plural marriage, to one who believes
that all ties will terminate with this life, and
that there is no necessity to lay a foundation
here for the life beyond, is not only unnecessary
but altogether undesireable, but to all who
accept it as a direct command from God, it is
not only essential but imperative, and no one
who so regards it could drop this tenet of their
faith without great violence to their conscience.
										L.


