TO MRS. EMILY SCOTT.

	I have no doubt that several of my "Mor-
mon" sisters will reply to your second honest,
sensible letter, as readily and candidly as they
did to your first. For my own part, I feel
much obliged to you for giving us an oppor-
tunity of speaking without feeling that we are
crowding our opinions unasked and undesired.
And I appreciate your friendliness in accepting
our testimonies as they are given, in all sincer-
ity of heart.
	Do not be offended with me for pitying your
"unbelief, skepticism or Ingersolism." It all
seems to me so unsatisfactory, especially when,in
my mind I compare it with the sweet faith, the
abiding hope, the perfect trust, the actual
knowledge which we as Latter-day Saints pos-
sess, in and of our Heavenly Father, his justice
mercy and loving kindness. How can we help
having faith when we repeatedly put the pro-
mises of the Lord to the test and have them
fulfilled to the very letter? By humbling our
selves—not to man—but before God, and seek-
ing to understand and be obedient to his laws,
we obtain the precious, priceless gift of his
spirit, by which we know for ourselves concern-
ing Him and his works. This brings us peace
and joy and satisfaction in all our duties, and
if we carefully follow its dictates, it will lead
us into all truth.
	Your very pointed and intelligent question,
"What is the belief of the Mormon Church,
and do you all have the same belief?" com-
prises so much that many pages might be ad-
vantageously filled in answering it. But we
have "Articles of Faith" printed on small cards
which will tell you in brief what our belief is.
Some of these cards shall be sent to you. We
have, like the ancient Church of Christ, "One
Lord, one faith, one baptism;" In our testi-
mony meetings, we all testify with one spirit,
of the goodness and power of "One God, and
Father of all." Whether we all speak or not,
we all understand alike and believe alike; and
the enjoyment of this Holy Spirit is what un-
ites our hearts and makes us regard each other
with the purest and most charitable feelings of
love and tenderness. I have said all, but


should say the great majority of our people are
thus actuated. There are and always have
been hypocrits, and we are not entirely free
from them.
	"Future rewards and punishments as I un-
derstand the subject, will be perfectly just and
right. Those who employ themselves in good
works here, will receive a corresponding reward
hereafter. And those who do wickedly will
reap what they merit, I am fully determined
to do all the good I can.
	Although far from perfection, yet our people
are diligently striving to reach a very exalted
degree of excellence; and the Lord helps us in
our weakness, often bestowing upon us what
seems to be supernatural strength and forti-
tude; and to Him belongs the praise and glory
if we do well.
		Very cheerfully yours,
