APOSTROPHE TO SPRING, 1882.

Fain would I woo thee! sweet gem of the year!
	But you meet me so cold that I'm chill
I remember the days when my eye, and my ear
	To thy voices would lovingly thrill!

When the flowers burst forth as a carpet beneath
	My feet as I sped o'er the earth!
When the violets, and primrose bedeck'd my loved hearth
	And it seemed earth received a new birth's

When the wild thyme arose in its ottoman form
	Speaking loud of Shaksperian rhymes,
When the kingcup, and pimpernell daily were born,
	Oh! were these not heavenly times?
When the nightingale sang her sweet vespers at eve,
	And the Blackbird and Thrush hail'd the morn
How I l[---]ning bent my charm'd ear to receive
	The music round shrub'ry and Lawn!

We feel that the granduer and beauty of earth
	Had received from the heavens a strain,
Of the glory and sweetness of heavenly mirth
	That inflated the heart, and the brain!—

It seemed to prepare us for heavenly joy
	As we bask'd in the beauty around,
It took from the earthly its needed alloy
	And made satisfaction abound;

O beautiful Nature! thou daughter of God!
	Well, well may we bend before thee!
Yet, oft in thy hand is a marvelous rod,
	Placed there by thy Maker's decree.

And the cold chilly Spring of the year eighty-two
	With its hailstorms, its cyclones and snow,
Is depressing—but yet we must still keep in view
	That we've blessings we'll never forgo.

Oh! let us be grateful for all we possess,
	And acknowledge the wisdom and care,
So richly provided, yes e'en to excess,
	And of which we've a bountiful share.

Then I'll take thee, sweet Spring of the year eighty-two,
	With thy chills, and thy smiles and thy tears,
For I know that the Sun to his earth will be true
	Tho', she lacks some sweet gifts of past years.

For 'twas said when the work of creation was young
	That the day and the night should not cease,
But continue their courses for all times to come,
	And their blessings should never decrease.

And the "lights" that were planted in glory above
	For "signs, and for seasons" should be—
And these acts of creation doth visibly prove
	Child of earth! they were planted for thee!

