BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following interesting incidents I sketch
from letters written by my mother to my father
while on a mission.
	The first dated October 11th, 1840, says,
"Conference closed last Monday. It was the
largest and most interesting one that has ever
been held since the Church was organized.
The people that attended were estimated at four
thousand, some thought there were more.
Much business was transacted and many good
instructions given. Brother Joseph has opened
a new and glorious subject of late, which has
caused quite a revival in the Church; that is
being baptized for the dead. Paul speaks of it
in First Corinthians 15th chapter 29th verse.
Joseph has received a fuller explanation of it
by revelation.	*	*	*	*	Since
this order has been preached here, the waters
have been continually troubled. During con-
ference there were sometimes from eight to ten
Elders in the river at a time baptizing.
	*	*	*	Those who have no
friends upon the earth to act for them, can
make their wants known to whomsoever they
will, through ministering spirits; and by so do-
ing we act as agents for them. Thus you see
there is a chance for all. Is not this a glorious
doctrine? Surely the Gentiles will mock, but
we will rejoice to have the Gospel preached to
the spirits in prison, and give them the privil-
ege of coming forth in the first resurrection.
President Smith in company with several breth-
ren have bought a steam boat, which is now
running from St. Louis to Galena. They cal-
culate in the Spring to run it to Wellsville.
Perhaps you will have the privilege of coming
home on it."
	In another letter she says, "I mentioned in
my last, that our people had bought a boat.
They have named her Nauvoo. The last trip
she made up the river, Brother Joseph Smith
went with her, and when he returned who
should accompany him but John Boynton and
his wife, and Lyman Johnson. They made it
their home at Joseph's all the time they were
here. I never saw Joseph appear more happy.
Said he "I am going to have all my old friends
around me again." Both of them bought lots
and calculate to build here. As to their faith
I have not heard much about it, but conclude
they have got some, or they would have no ob-
ject in coming here. I never saw any one ap-
pear more glad to see me than John's wife, they
called us all brothers and sisters. The day I
spent with them was one long to be rem-
embered.	*	*	*
	"I feel very grateful to you and Brother
Brigham and all the Saints who have admin-
istered to my necessities, may the Lord reward
them four fold. The things all came safe and
in an acceptable time, I can assure you.	*	*
	*	Sister Bently (formerly widow of David
Patten) was very thankful for her present, Sis-
ter Husband too. Sister Bently was very sick
the day I gave it to her. The next day she
felt the chill coming on, her mother told her to
put her shawl around her. 'Well' said she,
'who knows but Bro. Kimball has sent a bless-
ing with it, people anciently were healed
with any thing that the Apostles had touched,
and I will put it on and claim the blessing.'
She did so and her chill immediately left her;
she was quite smart all that day and so thankful
that she could not speak of it without weeping."
	A few extracts from my father's letter written
one year from the time he left us in Commerce,
may prove interesting. He gives some idea of
the sacrifice that was required at the hands of
the Apostles to prove them, whether or no they
were the true servants of God who were willing
to trust Him, and go forth in obedience accord-
ing to the pattern laid down by our Savior,

[Column 2]
"without purse or scrip" to bear the true mes-
sage of salvation to those who sit in darkness.
They were told in the beginning, that it would
require their whole souls and courage like that
of Enoch, for they would be considered the
worst of men; but not to be discourraged at
this for when God pours out his spirit, the en-
emy will rage. "The lives of those who pro-
claim the true Gospel will be in danger, this
has been the case ever since the days of righte-
ous Abel."
	The place where we were then living was
named Springvale because of the numerous
springs in that vicinity.
	The letter bears the following date:
					September 19th, 1840.
MY DEAR COMPANION:
	It is one year yesterday since I left you in
Springvale, sick on your bed. After I started,
you recollect, I called you to the door to bid
you farewell. I tell you, my dear Vilate, that
time will be remembered by me as long as time
lasts. No man could suffer more than I did in
my feelings, no and I hope I will never have
to again while I live on earth; I think if ever
one man did, I have left all for the cause of
Christ. Oh the feelings that I had no man has
language to express; I must say that my con-
stitution is broken down. I have aged more in
one year past than in five years previous, and
I suppose it has been the same with you. Bro-
ther Brigham Young and George A. Smith,
have failed in the same way. When I look
back on the journey that we have traveled and
the sickness that we have passed through I do
not wonder at all, and as you say it seems like
an age to me. Last week I was taken with the
cholora in the evening and it appeared to me
as though I could not live till morning. I was
cramped in my legs and body, was in a strange
place and no one to assist me; chills came on
me in the night and it seemed as though I
should frezee to death before morning, I was
obliged to leave my bed and get in with Bro-
ther George. The next day my legs were so
numb that I could scarcely walk. It held me
about three days and brought me quite low. I
am doing tolerably well at present. Brother
Woodruff left us about two weeks ago. We had
not baptized but one here in the city before he
left. He felt almost discouraged, said he never
saw such a hard case before in his day. Every
door closed against us and every heart. We
traveled from day to day from one part of the
city to the other to find some one that would
receive our testimony, but it seemed all in vain
for some time; at last we found one old Cornel-
ious that was ready to receive our testimony as
soon as he heard it.
	Last Sabbath I went forward and baptized
four. This was after I was attacked with the
cholera. I thought it would do me good to go
into a cold bath. Last night I baptized four,
and more are going next Sunday. So you see
the ice is broken in London and the truth has
got such a hold the Devil can not root it out;
but, he is very mad aud I am glad, I shall
never try to please him the Lord assisting me.
You may think that I feel discouraged. I will
say I have never seen the first moment as yet,
I do not see any thing to discourage me but
everything to the reverse. I know that I am
built on the foundation of Jesus Christ and the
Apostles and I know that my name is written
in heaven and that I shall come forth in the first
resurrection, that is if I should lay in the dust
before that time comes. It matters not to me
whether I die or live if I do the will of my
Father who is in heaven; and I know by the
voice of God and by the spirit of prophecy and
revelation and by the power of God and by
more than one hundred testimonies that I could
mention if it was needful, that this is his work.
You know Vilate that it is not a small thing
that casts me down. Now my dear cempanion
pray to the Father in the name of Jesus

[Column 3]
Christ to uphold me that I may continue to
the end and magnify my calling in the sight of
God and angels and all holy men that have
gone before us; and rather than let me fall that
He will take me to himself, for I know and He
knows that I wish to become a man of God in
the full sense of the word; and I know that I
cannot become thus except He be with me, for
in and of myself I am nothing, nor is any
other one; they may continue for a little sea-
son in their own wisdom but they will fall at
last and go down to perdition. I speak of these
things because I feel my weakness before God."
	In the same letter he describes some of the
sights, witnessed by himself, Brothers Wood-
ruff and George A. Smith. "On the 5th, of
September" he says, "we visited West-minister
Abbey and went through every department,
saw all the tombs and monuments of the Kings
and Queen and Lords who are laid therein, and
sat in the chair in which Queen Victoria was
crowned, and all the Kings and Queens for the
last eight hundred years; so you may know that
it is quite an old chair and is worth going some
distance to see. We also went to [---] James
Park and saw the Queen's troops two hundred
horsemen and all had black horses. I never
before saw so beautiful a sight. There was
about 400 footmam and a beautiful band of
music.	*	*	*	On the 8th of Sep-
tember we visited the House of Commons.
	On the 17th, Elder Smith and myself visited
the Queen's Palace, saw her horses which are
of a cream color, there are twelve span of them
and four are put before the carrage at once.
The carriage of State weighs four tons,is twenty-
four feet in length, the most superb that was
ever built in Europe. There are eight or ten
others similar; probably 150 more horses kept
for her majesty. I saw the Palace of Queen
Adelaide, King William's wife.	*	*	*	We
went through all the stables, and harness house
and all that appertains to it. You would be
astonished to see the stir there is made over a
little Queen, at the same time thousands starv-
ing to death for a little bread; but they have
their reward. "Blessed are the poor for they
shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel." The
rich and the proud have their reward here, and
we shall have ours hereafter, so I do not envy
them. The work of God is spreading in every
direction. I received a letter from Elder
Richards yesterday. He is well. There has
been fifteen or twenty baptized in Manchester
every week, and so it is in Preston and every
other part that I can hear from. B. Young
got news from O. Pratt, and I received a letter
from John Taylor. They are well. Since we
have been here in London I have received
thirty-one letters from different parts of the
land all things go well at present; but the Devil
is angry and also his comrades. There is great
opposition in England and it is growing worse
every day. Remember me to all of the Saints
from England, if they have reached there.
Give my love to Bro. Joseph, Elder Rigdon,
Brothers Hyrum, Don Carlos Smith and
families; and Brother Thompson and wife,
Brothers Hubbard, Bently, Rich, Joseph
Young, Israel Barlow and their wives and all
the wives of the Twelve and finally every body
else that you see and may the Lord bless them
all is my prayer for Christ's sake, Amen."
	This letter came at a time when my mother
was overwhelmed with sorrow, having just re-
ceived the heart-rending news that her dear
father was no more.
	She being the youngest child had been nearly
the idol of her family. Her father had passed
through the troubles in Ohio and Missouri and
had followed us to Nauvoo and this was the
longest time we had been separated. The
last tidings received from him, he was well and
calculating to start on his journey home on the
1st, of October, and we had been daily antici-
pating his arrival.


