[Vol11 | May 1924 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Bereft at Castle Gate]

The Bereft at Castle Gate Since our last issue, a terrible catastrophe has overtaken the State of Utah depriving mothers of sons, wives of husbands, and children of fathers and brothers.

We deeply sympathize with those who are bereft and trust that the time is not far distant when such accidents will be made impossible.

For those who have passed, unstinted gratitude; they are the heroes of the humble walks of life, the men who daily and hourly risk their lives that you and I may live in comfort, protected from cold and with ample provision for cooking our food.

No one can ever go into a coal mine without being stirred with a feeling of gratitude for these men, who, cut off from sunlight, give their work and their lives for the comfort of others.

Of their sacrifice it is not possible to say enough, they have gone to that realm where a just God knows how to evaluate their service and how to reward them for all their labor.

We pray that the consoling influences of our heavenly Father's Spirit may give support to the bereft.

We submit the following poem from the pen of Lula Greene Richards, trusting that from it the bereaved will receive some measure of comfort: TO HEARTS BEREFT No flower so fair but it may fade and die?

No star so bright it may not sink to rest?

Nor gift so precious from the world on high It cannot pass from those who love it best.

Look up, dear ones bereft?renew your trust, Confess God's loving hand and comfort find?

Think of that heavenly Friend as true and just?

Too wise to err?too good to be unkind! 
 Think of the loved one taken from our sight, Living forever where His glories shine?

Free from the storms of winter?gloom of night, And say, "O Lord, thy will be done?not mine!" Arise and help to conquer grief and sin Making life's purpose better understood.

Unbar your souls and let love's sunshine in?

We cannot give without receiving good.

The joy of giving cheer to self imparts?

Pain is of earth, but peace is from above.

Find blessings for your own and other hearts, In looks and words and deeds of Christ-like love.

Let tis love more our dear ones who are left, And prize more highly blessings of today, And that loved one of whom we are bereft, Will smile with us and seem not far away. ?A Mother was Born'' Alice Meynell, one of our very modern writers, whose poetry is often seen in collections of the new poetry, put forth a new idea when she intimated that at the birth of the first babe, not only is a child born, but a mother is born, and we add to her intimation that a father is born also.

This, no doubt, is one reason why the birth of the first child seems so important in a family, and indeed it is important for it gives to the world not only a new infant, but a new father and a new mother, which is surely deeply significant.

Is She a Specialist?

This is a day of specialization, still there are some lines in which we hardly hoped for specialists.

The following story gleaned from a mother, as I walked along the street with her, forces the question.

She was with her daughter Carol when I inadvertently remarked, that I thought Carol a very pretty name, to which her mother readily replied, "We gave her that name, because she was born on Christmas Day." As I manifested some interest in the remark, she continued by saying, "One of my children was born on Thanksgiving Day, and another on New Year's Day." The attending physician laughingly remarked, after the birth of the one on New Year's Day, "Mrs. D., we will give you one more chance for a baby on the 4th of July." "I have not had a child born on the 4th or the 24th of July," EDITORIAL 231 she continued, "but I did have a child born on the 4th of March, which chanced to be the day of the inauguration of a President of the United States." I do not pretend to answer the question myself.

I put it up to you, is she a specialist?

A Busy Mother's Poem By Hazel S. Washburn I thought I'd write a poem, glorious and grand, Something to thrill men's hearts and make them understand And comprehend the lesson written there Of love and life and death!

Our human share; But all day long my feet on errands went, Backward and forward, till the day was spent, While I gave love, advice and feproof, mild Always, in the service of a little child.

I thought I'd sing a song that all might hear, And hearing, care and strife would disappear, Leading ever upward toward the throne of love, Teaching only mercy and the God above.

But oh, I bathed an aching head instead, Bound up a bleeding finger, kissed a poor bumped head, Settled disputes, and, as the eve drew nigh, Tired, I only sung a lullaby.

But oh, I love each little towseled head, I love to tuck each one at night in bed, To hear each prayer, to cuddle and caress, To guide their tiny feet in paths of righteousness.

Then, some day, when my birdies all have flown, Leaving the home nest, and their mother all alone, I may have time; as maybe it will be I?ll write my poems in eternity.