Real Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon

June—With every day so full of loveliness, why should not the heart be glad?

Princess Elizabeth, as she reached her twelfth birthday, had her party of young friends and a candle-bedecked birthday cake, but that is only the semblance of childhood. Her education is most rigid under private tutors, while Queen "Mother Mary," her grandmother, guides her in court etiquette and the duties of queenship, towards which her birth portends.

Lily Pons, opera star, proved herself a heroine as well as an artist when during a terrific storm on the Atlantic last spring she sang song after song to keep up the spirits of the other passengers.

Miss Maud May Babcock, head of the speech department of the University of Utah, has retired after a service of 46 years as instructor in dramatic art. She is president of the National Association of Teachers of Speech.

Madam Jean Picard, the only woman licensed balloonist, not only pilots her husband in his stratosphere flights but assists him in gathering and preparing his scientific data during the flights.

Phyllis Bentley's "Sleep In Peace;" "Above the Rainbow," an allegorical story by Anne W. Strawbridge; the fine biography of Louisa May Alcott by Katharine Anthony, and "Towers In The Mist" by Elizabeth Goudge are all outstanding for literary merit among the new books.

Matilda Gutnikova is a technician in a large plane plant in Moscow, Soviet Russia. Flying is part of her extra curricular work.

Hattie Caraway, senator from Arkansas, says the greatest dangers to our government come not from without but from sinister interests within. She is not alone in that opinion.

Susanna T. Robison, of Fillmore, Utah, was one of the beloved pioneer mothers who died last April. She was aged 91.

Dr. Erika Rickli has been entrusted by the Swiss Association of Statistics and Political Economy with the task of compiling an Encyclopedia of Economics of 600 pages for the National Exhibition of Switzerland, to be held in 1939.

Helen Hayes prefers the legitimate drama to the films. After three years in the title role in "Victoria Regina" she is still enthusiastic over the role.

Osa Johnson declares the humane work of capturing "wild life pictures so they will never be forgotten," begun by herself and husband, the late Martin Johnson, is now hers to carry on. She calls her films "Jungle Calling."