Pioneers—Giants in the Earth By Lois Vernon Hales
Very dear to us is the pioneer, no matter where he be or what his nationality. Most of us are children or grandchildren of our own pioneers and the bond with all pioneers is strong within us. Our life is redolent with the fineness of pioneer life. But do we really appreciate it? How can we who know so little of mind-breaking solitude, frightful homesickness, and hardship fully realize pioneer life. Books about America's pioneers will help us if we read them with receptive minds as well as receptive hearts.
Giants in the Earth, by O. E. Rolvaag, is the story of the Norwegian-American immigration. It was written in America and about America, but it comes to us in translation from the Norwegian. Rolvaag's whole aim in writing it is to show the contribution of his people to American life. He sees, and wants us to see, the human cost of empire building as well as the glamour and romance of it. He feels, and wants us to feel the grim reality of pioneering. In its fatalism and psychological turn Giants in the Earth is truly European, but it is an American Saga of the Prairie, for it is wholly concerned with America.
O. E. Rolvaag was born April 22, 1876, in Norway, just a short distance south of where the Arctic Circle cuts the coast. All of his people were fishermen. In their lives hardship, poverty, sorrow, and danger played prominent parts. On them shone the midnight sun for its brief season. Then came long periods of utter darkness hiding the gloomy, barren landscape. From this life Rolvaag broke away. In 1893, a terrible storm had destroyed many of his friends and nearly taken his life. His love for fishing killed, he set sail for America and landed in New York in 1896. In 1899 he entered school in South Dakota. Today he occupies the chair of Norwegian literature in St. Olaf College.
Per Hansa and his wife, Beret, are the outstanding characters in Giants in the Earth. Immediately upon landing in America from Norway, they began their way toward the prairies of the Dakotas. To Per Hansa the future was rosy and full of promise. Anything was better than the gloomy life he had left behind. To Beret the future was doubtful and fraught with sadness. Her people and her humble home where their three children had been born were far across the sea. Here on the prairie with its unbroken rolling expanse one felt the presence of a force hostile to man. Here there was no need of fighting for all were conquered at last. One could not be victorious here. Here people were concerned with the Earth instead of God. Here one had no time to think of God until Death's fingers were upon one and then it was too late. Here the Earth took people instead of the living God. Here men became brutes.
Per Hansa struggled early and late through many hard years. He met plague, heavy storms, tormenting hot summers, with the true grace of the born pioneer. Things prospered until the time came when the future promised returns for his years of hard toil. But Beret—for her the struggle had been too much. Her delicate mind which had groped all these years for an understanding of life had lost its way. And then one day came a minister of God into the little village. He brought to the heart of Beret a message which she recognized. In her narrow way she began to speak of it to Per Hansa. But the Prairie which had watched these would-be conquerors now for many years had decided otherwise. Per Hansa late one winter day set out across the snow-swept prairie in search of the minister. He never returned.
Giants in the Earth is the story of Per Hansa, the born pioneer, and Beret, the failure as a pioneer. Beret could not adapt herself to the new country. In her agony and homesickness she wrecked what might have been the finest of pioneer homes. She sent Per Hansa to his death and made her children unhappy. And the Prairie which had been waiting and watching, drank the blood of Christian men and was satisfied.
Mother of an Ace By Linda S. Fletcher
Pain, the Inquisition Demon, Stretched her on a torturing rack, In a grim, gray place of horrors— Out surged consciousness, then back;
But she fought on, ne'er despairing, Claimed at Gates of Death, a toll— Back to Life returned, triumphant, With the boon she'd won—a soul!
In that mysterious, gray Unknown, Linked was her heart with a Son—her Own!
In the silver mists of heaven, Soul undaunted—courage high, Swooping hence and yon, an Eagle Went to conquer or to die.
Did she pause, afraid to follow To the Kingdom of the Air? No; asserting their high kinship, Soared she up to meet him there.
In the solitude of the pure, high Blue, Visions knit their souls anew!
Little Mother By Josephine Spencer
Little Mother came back to consciousness to find the Boy's tiny head pillowed on her arm, and his ridiculously small fingers clinging at her breast. It was big Man's voice which called her back from deeps into which she had sunk through swirls of mortal anguish.
"Thank God, it's over, Little Mother, and you are safe!" He kissed her—with a great reverence; but Little Mother sensed only the tiny head, and clinging hands.
"It's great, isn't it?" Big Man gloated. "Confess, Little Mother, now it's all over, you're really not sorry it's a boy?"
She puzzled for a moment, quite forgetting that past little picture—of choice. Then her eyes went to his, and they both laughed softly, joyously.
"It's wonderful luck," breathed Big Man, stroking the small, dark head on her arm. "There always will be something to do, planning for him. With a girl it's different—her future is more or less a certainty, if she's a real, true, girl. With a boy there are a thousand chances—careers galore, with rungs leading to the top of the ladder."
"I can't make it seem real," she said, faintly, solemnly. "It's like the time they put my first doll in my arms, and told me it was mine—to keep."
"That's how it looks to me," said Big Man wonderingly—"like a live doll."
Little Mother snuggled the little form closer and said the words over softly, hungrily, "Mine to keep."
College
"College, Boy!" she said. "Why that means going away from home for years."
"But I can come back between whiles, Little Mother," he pleaded. "The summer vacations and the holidays, you know."
"I'm afraid we couldn't manage all that—after your father's reverses. College alone would test his resources—to say nothing of the mortgage and other things."
"I'm going to pay it all back, Little Mother. When I finish I'll work like a Trojan—maybe pick up the mortgage if it's still hanging."
"I'd always thought of your finishing up right here at the home University, Boy."
"The University's all right—in its way," he conceded generously; but a man's nothing nowadays without his big college certificate. Besides, a fellow needs to be thrown on his own re-
LITTLE MOTHER 239
sources to develop his powers. I need the experience to help make me a man. I can't get any sort of training in self-reliance unless I go away from home."
That was the chief trouble. Little Mother knew it all the time she was urging the economies. What he had said, though, was true—about the college prestige. If she interposed her mother's selfishness against his welfare—how would she answer to him in time to come?
She never had thought seriously of facing the ordeal of the Boy's prolonged absence. Now that it suddenly confronted her she felt as if a chord were loosened, somehow, in her own being. The Boy's thought and interests had been heretofore wrapped up in home and home ties, and now the call of the world was itching his ears, challenging the old claims. She of all beings, however, must not stand in the way of the Boy's development—which, of course, was the paramount issue.
Little Mother took the Boy's eager face between her hands. "I'll talk with your father about it, tonight, Boy." she said. "If he can manage it, of course you must go. Nothing must stand between you and your progress."
The Boy gave her a resounding kiss. "I'd pick you from all the mothers in the universe," he declared.
The Girl
Purple morning-glories were thick outside the window, and the sunlight sifting through their trellised leaves and flowers was like shuttled gold. Little Mother looked at the handsome face across the table and drew another long breath. The two months since the Boy's home coming had not quite wiped out her sense of wonder. That strapping fellow with the dark line on his upper lip, ready, but for mug and razor to blossom into a mustache—her son! Bigger now than his father—if it came to actual measurement. No doubt of experience—and time—having done their work. She was glad now that she had not stood in his way, but she would not want to live over again the ordeal of those long years of separation!
She came and stood beside his chair and laid her arm possessingly around his big shoulders. "Going out again tonight, Boy?"
"Yes, Little Mother—to the theater; I've invited Elsie."
Little Mother smiled and pinched the Boy's ear. "Seems to me Elsie's getting big ladles of your company against everybody else's teaspoonfuls."
"It's just our being in the same set, together, Little Mother," he parried. "There are six of us and you see we sort of pair off. If one drops out it leaves a girl over, and breaks up the bunch."


"It's all right, dearie. I want you to be in things, and have a good time, just so it's clean. But I happened to think today (happened!) that there hasn't been a night or day since you came home without somebody being here—or your being out. I thought it would be fine for just the three of us to spend one evening at home—to make it seem like old times. Suppose we say tomorrow night."
"It's fierce, Little Mother, but there's the Park's party on tomorrow, and the college fraternity banquet next night. Now I think of it—I'm booked for every evening including Sunday. Next week there's the camping party in the mountains—and—"
"It's splendid, Boy—your being in all these nice things," said Little Mother. "I'm glad."
And she and Big Man spent the evening alone, talking over their joy in the Boy's joy, and their satisfaction in his seeming to get started with the right sort of associates.
Big Man had chanced to buy theatre tickets for the theater the same night; and though Little Mother tried to fix her mind on the play—and between acts on the orchestra—she found her attention wandering to the Boy, who sat in the stage-box with the bunch. Little Mother could not help preening a good deal over the Boy's good looks, his evident popularity and assured social standing. But she was silly and selfish enough to indulge a mite of a twinge when she happened to catch the shy glances exchanged between the Boy and Girl while the play was in progress. It was a society play—replete with situations and love scenes, and it was during the tender dialogue that the young couple-in-the-box stole glances at each other. Once, too, their hands met, covertly, on the back of the Girl's chair when her cloak slipped from her shoulders.
This made Little Mother smile absently. It reminded her of incidents that had happened with herself and Big Man in their courting days. She recalled the delicious little thrill in those past innocent diversions and yet now she was fretting because the Boy was having his turn—and actually begrudging the Girl her share in the Boy's pastimes.
That night after the play Little Mother confessed her foolish sin to Big Man, who laughed at it heartily.
"Don't begin to worry over those things, yet, Little Mother!" he warned. "She is only a sweetheart—probably the first. There will be plenty more before he settles down. I know—because I have been through the mill myself."
"You mean there were others before me?" gasped Little Mother. "Perhaps you forget telling me I was the only one."
"You were," said Big Man, stoutly. "The others did not count at all. I never really cared seriously for anybody till I met you!"
LITTLE MOTHER 241
The Main Chance
They were at breakfast, and Big Man looked up from his mail with a gurgle of mingled joy and triumph.
"You've landed it!" he cried, shaking an official document at the Boy. "It has come our way, after all the other fellows' scrapping and wire pulling. Secretly, I didn't think you had the ghost of a chance with all those heelers and lobbyists pulling at the game. I simply put in your application and had a quiet talk with the secretary. It's another big proof to me of the efficiency of clean methods, and that a man don't have to do dirty work to win out in a laudable ambition."
The Boy rose in excitement and went to look over Big Man's shoulder. "It's the real thing, Dad—gilt seals, red tape, everything. And I don't forget I owe it to you. Your influence and public record have landed me the spoil. It's great—all round; not only the salary and prestige, but the experience. Four years in Europe, and in the tip-top diplomatic circles will be a liberal education. A chance like that don't come to many fellows at my age."
The two gloated for a long time. Men-fashion, their talk larded with technical expressions, suppressed egotism and large outlook. It was the Boy who first noticed Little Mother's silence.
"Why, Little Mother, you haven't uttered a word. Aren't you going to join the family jubilation? Thought you'd be the first to fly rockets and fire cannon!"
"The position isn't much in the way of emoluments," said Big Man, his enthusiasm somewhat dampened at sight of her face. "But a diplomatic appointment at his age is big innings. When a young fellow cuts into that sort of running at the start, it means a sure chance at the big games later on, both in diplomacy and politics."
Big Man stood up and he and the Boy looked expectantly at Little Mother.
"He is just home from college," she faltered.
"Yes, but—"
"Four more, added to those four years will make eight."
"It means practically that—yes," said Big Man. "But it's his chance in life. That's what we've really planned and worked for, ever since he was born."
Why, of course, Little Mother sensed it all quite clearly. She herself had built wonderful air-castles all for the Boy's inhabitance and now that the corner stone lay ready—she wanted to back down. They called people pikers who did that! Well, they should see that she would not put a single clog in their elation!
Little Mother tried to manage a smile, but did nothing more than to straighten out the pitiful droop in the corners of her mouth.


"It's certainly fine—your getting the position," she said, "though I'm not at all surprised. In fact I have always felt that something out-of-the-ordinary would come to you."
The Boy crossed to her and gave her a bearish hug. "You've always been a brick, Little Mother," he spooned. "I knew for sure you wouldn't want me to sluff my main chance."
The Woman
Little Mother read the Boy's letters over feverishly, her breath coming sometimes pantingly, in quick gasps, and again in long, slow sighs. It was all there—the whole perilous story told in the Boy's impetuous, adulatory phrases, and studiously worded defence. Innocent, genuine and frank his own attitude so far—but—the woman!
Little Mother's fingers worked convulsively as she pictured the slim white throat, pink flesh and red hair painted in life-like lines by the Boy's infatuated pen. These and hints of home-coming tourists who had seen and heard—for themselves! Little Mother grew faint at thought of the broken sentences and considerate silences of these home spectators! If it were true, indeed, that the woman could lure Boy from his work at will to drag him at her heels about the European capitals and even to Monte Carlo—why, the very worst must come—dismissal, debauch, disgrace.
Little Mother carried her misery tremulously to Big Man, who listened in silence but with set teeth. It was some time before he spoke. Then he said soberly. "I suppose it had to come, sometime. A young fellow's bound to have his moral hazing in his tilt with the world. No one can help him—it's sort of a tide-rip that sucks from without and within. Neither skill nor strength count much in the struggle. If he gets out whole, it's always more just knack or luck."
"There's something else," said Little Mother, doggedly, and set her white lips.
Night after night she prayed. And day after day, when Big Man was at the office she framed letters to the Boy—cunningly worded, cautiously phrased. Few could have detected anything under their smooth surface, so seemingly guileless was their trend. When the Boy's answers came she took them away to her room and studied them deeply, cautiously probing this phrase, that expression for some glimpse of hope. Presently she fancied she began to see signs. Obscure enough those hints—which Big Man passed over unseen, unscented, even unhoped. New tones—like the first, faint green in sere willows, showing healthy sap to be creeping upward through dried bark—ran in the Boy's letters. Then, at last one came which she read, first breathlessly, then with tears blinding her eyes so that she could hardly see the
LITTLE MOTHER 243
words. When she was quite sure she locked the door softly, and fell on her knees. There Big Man found her when he came home from his political meeting.
She told him sitting on his knee with her arms around his neck, "It's over—the woman, I mean. Boy is clear of her—and with a clean conscience. I felt from the first God would not fail me. I have always trusted so in him—and the Boy."
Big Man
Big Man's face was nearly as white as the pillow on which it had lain for weeks past. Little Mother had seen it change slowly, steadily, till it told the truth the doctor had tried to hint from the very first. Little Mother had put aside the hint angrily, rebelliously, incredulously. Such a thing was impossible! Why—she had leaned on Big Man for years! He was her stay and support in every possible way. No one could expect her to live without him! There are some things which go by themselves; they belong to a separate autocratic kingdom—the realm of too hard to bear. She had put the hint away resolutely and definitely in that place—as being too absurd for consideration.
Today, she rose from the watch which she had kept tirelessly for weeks and went to the bedside. Big Man's lips were moving, and she leaned over him, hungrily, listening. He had not spoken before that day.
Big Man's eyes met hers wistfully, pityingly. "There are things—that must be said, Little Mother," he murmured, "if you will—if you can bear to let me say them—"
He stopped at the touch of wet drops on his face, then, presently went on.
"I've been hoping—praying—this trial might be spared you," he said, very faintly; "but I guess—it has to be."
Her cry—a shrill moan—burst forth piteously and Big Man put his hand forth and held her own tightly for a moment—while he had strength.
"I want you to promise for my sake not—to let it—hurt too hard. One of us had to go first—and the thought of its sorrow falling on you has been a perpetual torment."
Little Mother choked back her tears, and laid a tight hand on her wild heart. "You mustn't let that worry you," she faltered, "I am going to have strength to go through whatever comes. You know how I felt when Boy went away—but I've lived through it—and I suppose I'll just go on the same."
"It's about Boy I want to speak," Big Man murmured, aching at sight of her misery. "It's doubly hard to ask—when you will have so much to bear. I've thought it over and over—and always with the one answer—that it is cruel, inhuman, to ask you to meet it alone. But the Boy's prospects—the knowledge


that if he leaves the field now, when the slightest chance may lose him his career—I can't—decide."
Big Man's voice failed in a half sob.
Little Mother sat quite silent for a moment. For weeks, since the hint had begun to take root, she had longed to send for the Boy. Thought, alone, of the impending blow, had seemed too much to bear. To meet the thing itself—she sat frozen, trying to feel her way—as out of a deep, impenetrable darkness.
The gnawing sense of Big Man's miserable eyes, roused her. "Of course," she whispered, so faintly he could hardly hear, "Boy must not be called away from his work under any circumstances. It would surely imperil his interests, and I would rather meet whatever comes—alone."
Big Man reached out with feeble hands and drew her wet face close to his own. "Brave Little Mother," he faltered.
The Boy
It was a queer whim of Little Mother's that she could not stand for the Boy's beard. She said it made him seem strange and alien. Boy had smiled at her request.
"Shave? Why, of course, Little Mother, I'm not really set on the beard myself. The Berlin fellows all do it, you see, and we Americans fall in line. I wore it home because I thought you'd have to have a proof that I'm really grown up."
Little Mother clung to the Boy's big hand as if it were to save her from something. All through that dark time with Big Man, and since, she had not been able to picture the Boy save as the tiny thing she had snuggled once in her arms in dainty muslins and laces. This had comforted her in a way—just how, she could not tell.
"Oh, Boy," she said. "It's the changes I want to forget. I want you to put aside everything you can—for awhile—that can separate me from the old associations."
And the Boy, sensing clearly, put aside the beard—together with his own grief and sense of a missing presence and aired nothing in her sight but his old cheery smile and boyish confidences.
And how dear it all seemed. Life began to look to Little Mother as if it might hold something for her after all. Boy, with his loving face opposite her at table, and his stalwart presence an assured stay and protection every day. How she had missed that once familiar sense in those past, dark months! Little tasks whose dullness and routine had spelled distaste in her listless misery, under the Boy's show of interest began to seem important. Nothing was too minute for his appreciative notice. It made everything look different.
LITTLE MOTHER 245
The Career
Little Mother had almost lost her once poignant sense of loneliness when the career loomed in sight. It was only natural, as Big Man had foreseen that a young man haloed with the prestige of a diplomatic appointment, should, in his home town be an early mark for political preference. It took Boy out a great deal, especially when the campaign was in full tilt. Little Mother managed to get through the days fairly well, but the evenings which the Boy spent mostly with the Central Committee. Or at political meetings and state stumpings, seemed harder to bear. His step on the porch during that time became more or less a daily and nightly vigil. She rose almost at daylight to get the newspaper and read reports of his campaign speeches and it all brought back the old pride she had felt at his school and college and diplomatic honors. Thoughts of how Big Man would have rejoiced at this day came up often to choke her, but. She hastily put them away, remembering her solemn promise to Big Man, in that last dark hour.
When the election was over, and the Boy came home escorted by the brass band and the prominent party members, Little Mother experienced a guilty qualm at thought of being able to indulge such happiness. It brought a greater joy though when she realized the campaign work was ended and that she would now see more of the Boy.
They were talking it over at breakfast, and the Boy was beaming with her because of his good fortune.
"It means even more than just the winning out, Little Mother," he said. "My assured position makes possible an event for which I have been dearly longing this past year."
The Wife
Little Mother sat quite still while he told her. It had occurred to her often, of course, that inevitable something; but she had put it away quickly each time with a little shiver. The Boy was all she had now, surely no one had such a claim on him as she—at least for a time. She expected it to happen sometime, but not until her sore sense of that other separation had somewhat healed. The Boy was young, there was plenty of time and she really had had so little of his company for years. Surely—
"Don't think, Little Mother," the Boy was saying, "Don't think this will mean separation from you. She is as unselfish as she is beautiful, and so far from losing anything out of your life, you will gain—yes, more than you think. You will have a daughter, you see, as well as a son. I have pictured it often, Little Mother,. Your having someone to help bear your loneliness. It will take an actual load from my shoulders, to feel there will be another near and dear, one to care for you as I do."
Little Mother brightened at this picture—like the morning-glories on the porch-vine at the touch of the dew.


"I'm sure it will be all right, Boy, I knew it would come sometime, of course, and—and I am glad—you have chosen so well. She will make you a good wife, I think, and I will do all in my power to help make you both happy."
Little Mother thought it all over when the Boy had gone down town. It would be as he said: No separation—no estrangement—nothing but gain—another life added to theirs, they would bring to each a greater completeness. There might be children, too—her heart gave a joyous throb at that thought. How blind—and narrow and selfish her love had been! It was time something had happened to bring her to her senses.
June came—and the wedding was over with its buoying excitement, and warm-hued hopes. Summer and autumn, and winter again, with endless weeks and long, dark days. Something was wrong—something that lay in the repeated absences,. Growing steadily longer and longer. A few days, at first; then a week, two weeks, and now nearly a month. In the same city, too, with a street car passing both their doors, and not even the trouble of transfer.
She had not noticed at first; little things might have arisen; household duties for the wife, extra work at the office in the evenings, perhaps, and Sunday to keep Boy busy. They were the loneliest, those Sabbaths. She had fought against the feeling as something almost wicked. Deadly lonely, though, the home-coming from Church to the empty house, and lonely mealtimes. Her neighbor had come in often from next door, to be sure; but whoever framed that proverb about the comparative thickness of blood should have sensed the tie of motherhood to know all that it meant.
"What is it, Boy?" She asked the question again, with her hand on his drooping head, as he sat in the arm-chair. "Is it—am I the cause—have I done anything to trouble you?"
"Mother! You—"
"You have been away so long, dear, that is—compared to the first few months, you know—I was afraid some thoughtlessness of mine might have been the cause."
"It has nothing to do with you personally at all. It's just—well, Elsie isn't well, you know, mother, and—and she naturally wants me with her. She doesn't care to go out much, now, you see, and I—well, of course, I can't leave her. You'll make the best of it, won't you Mother, for awhile, if I don't see you? After a while, when Elsie feels better, it will be different. She will get out more."
"Get out more!" She wished her neighbor, had not told her of the weekly sewing club, of the matinee-parties where Elsie had been, according to the neighbor's glowing account, "the life of the crowd." Had it been really her fault, she asked herself; some little inattention, or thoughtlessness towards the girl-bride?
LITTLE MOTHER 247
She had so wished to be mindful; she had an undissembled affection, which she felt sure Elsie must have sensed. She was awake far into the night, wondering, and rose to her lonely breakfast with something like that dead weight at her heart she had known after Big Man died. It lay there many a day, after that, though Boy called her up twice a day, by wire, and Elsie came down with Boy one Sunday afternoon, and shared her light lunch with her. Even when Boy began to make weekly calls, running down evenings for a half hour's chat as he had not done for months—the weight did not lessen, but indeed grew—for the troubled look in Boy's face had deepened—was always there, and a constraint, too, in his manner that made him seem somewhat alien, like the German beard. She watched him anxiously, though without sign, fearful lest she might touch, unwittingly, some sore sense. The trouble, if trouble it were, made the first one he had not discussed with her, as a comrade, in bygone times. It was such a little thing, this one and only reserve; she was childish, yes, even selfish, to make it an anxiety. She would put the thought of it out of her mind, and try to help him back to the old boyish, carefreeness.
The coming of the grandson helped. In the joy and excitement of the wonderful advent, old but ever new, thrilled with its inexplicable marvel, all constraint vanished. There was a special dinner at Little Mother's home in honor of the first visit of the tiny potentate, then one at Boy's with the old good will and frankly kind and familiar intercourse renewed.
Six months passed with a new sense of happiness in Little Mother's life. The gain Boy had pictured when he told of his future marriage, seemed really to be coming true, with still another link added to her claim on the world. The baby's tiny face learned to brighten at Little Mother's sight, and the dimpled arms to go out to her in flattering welcome when she was present, and the lines of age and sorrow in Little Mother's face softened under the renewed influence of cheer.
Boy did not find time to make the weekly visits now, since the new claim on his home life; but there was no constraint, no spirit of brooding estrangement to worry her. With her plain garden in front, and the little plot at the back of the house which Boy had proudly planted in spring shoots, and her neighbor coming in now and then to while away the hours at home, and her own duties, the time passed with surprising swiftness and pleasure.
She blamed herself, when she began to notice things again. "My own idle, selfish imagination!" she told herself, indignantly. "I am beginning to demand that my life shall have no cloud, that's all. As if I, or Boy, or anyone else can expect perfect content and peace to last. Time to get rid of this morbid imagination, if I'm not to make myself, and Boy and everyone else miserable."


She held to her struggle resolutely, even when Boy began to come down every day, with his mouth set in hard, determined, but unhappy lines, and his manner distraught with the old constraint.
Little Mother watched Boy drop from the car platform one day with an unusual tightening of heart. His face, pale and strained, his manner almost hopeless—what could it all mean? She put the question involuntarily, as he entered the door and flung himself on the little settee.
He was still for a moment, then suddenly walked to the table. "It's that, mother," he said, laying something on the table.
She looked at the small gold band, dazedly. "I don't understand you, Boy," she said. "That ring—"
"It's Elsie's, mother—yes, the wedding ring. You know what it means when a wife gives that back, don't you?"
He sat down on the sofa again, and buried his face in his hands.
"Little Mother," he said, desperately, with a sob in his voice. "I can't say anything in self-justification without seeming cowardly—without making her bear the blame. But I have tried to make things go right in our lives. But it didn't seem just to me, and never will, to sacrifice you absolutely to our own selfish ease and happiness. As if I could be happy with you deliberately put out of my life. Yes, that's it substantially. It's not. Just a personal claim of wife against mother—I could see, and have yielded to that natural claim as far as it did not encroach on actual justice to me and you! But it is a claim of family against family, an imperative claim for our joint loyalty and devotion to her kindred, with an almost total disregard of my own rights. She cannot sense that I have my personal ties and home associations as dear as hers. She cannot sense that my claim is, in its way, more imperative because of your loneliness—a condition, which she has had no chance to sense.
"That is the foundation of it all, Little Mother—oh, of course there have been other things—things we have said to each other in trying to argue it out, each on our own side. She calls my stand stubbornness, you see, but I have made concessions that have kept me sleepless thinking of you and what you might think of my desertion. I couldn't explain—you can see that, can't you, Little Mother? I've held it—because I was afraid, almost to voice such a thing as a misunderstanding between me and my wife. It has hurt to the core, Mother! You can't guess how much! I love her—I couldn't love her more than I do now; but it's misery I can't stand, the daily jangling, and insistence upon personal rights, whose absolute counterpart she denies me."
The noonday sun streaming through the muslin curtain blinded Little Mother's eyes. Something dark at least came
LITTLE MOTHER 249
between her and Boy's wretched face. She put up both hands and shut it all out for a moment, then quickly—sensing that Boy's suffering would only grow with her own, put them down. "This is serious, Boy," she said, presently. "We must think well and dispassionately; so as not to make mistakes. This is the biggest problem of your life—you must step as carefully as if you were on thin glass, whose breaking will plunge you to destruction." Boy's own face was hidden and his short dry sobs were the first she had heard since he was a child. She drew her chair to the sofa. '"Let's talk it over, Boy," she said. "There must be some way out of this—this mistake. It's only that, you must remember; nothing must come between you, and your wife and child. A mother must not do it, above all things. You see that, don't you, dear? It would be like cutting you out of your birthright, or shutting a door to keep you from paradise." Boy sat up and threw out his arms. "But the alternative, there's only one, you know, now, after all that has passed between us." "And it isn't so difficult, Boy, if you look at it in the right way." "You mean—for me—to give you up?" "Figuratively, yes—for a time, at least. It is all new to her, you know—this relationship. With its new ideas, and ties. In time, I am sure, things will look differently. We must consider her side, even a little more than ours." Boy uttered a little despairing groan. "I have tried to do that, Mother." "Yes, but you have had the struggle alone. It is a hard one, even for an experienced person, and you two young people have been trying to straighten it all out yourselves. If you had only told me at first, I might have helped you both. I can do it now, though, thank heaven." Boy groaned again. "It's too late, now; it's gone too far. Besides, as I told you—a settlement can only come about on conditions I cannot as a man, a son, or a Christian, concede." Little Mother drew a long breath. The sense of that concession lay like a weight at her heart; but it must not balance on the wrong side. "You are taking it all too seriously, dear, time brings everything out right if we meet things as they come in the right way. Now let me handle this for awhile. I've just had a thought—an inspiration, we will call it—a way out. It's that little farm of ours out in the country. The people on it haven't been doing right by us—I have felt it for some time. Neighbors out there say the man is really shiftless, lets things go at haphazard. I've 
 felt for a long time one of us ought to be out there to look after things. It isn't much, of course, all told; but it's ours, and some time may mean a great deal to you—and your children. The thing for me to do right now is to stay there and watch things." "Little Mother! Heaven knows you are lonely enough now. Out there—" "There will be someone with me, of course. I shall keep our tenants on, there, to do the work. I'll just be the boss, you see—with a little corner of my own to keep as a sort of throne room. I won't have time to be lonesome, you know, with all the farm things on my mind." Boy came and knelt down by her low chair. Little Mother, I see what you mean—and I know what it will cost. But I believe it will save us—me and Elsie and our child—a sorrow worse than death. God bless you, Little Mother, and—and help to bring _it out all right in the end." She watched him swing on the car, his step lighter by far than when he had come. The hopeless look on his face, too, had lifted, though his mouth drooped and the eyes that gave her a parting glance were dim. When he was quite out of sight, Little Mother fell on her knees. The End Little Mother thought she had sounded the utmost deeps of Loneliness after the passing of Big Man, but then she had the Boy's homecoming to live for—and now there was nothing. The farm lay miles from the railroad and the nearest neighbor, and Little Mother's sole companions were the hired help, who were in a state of perpetual grouch because the presence of Little Mother interfered with their own designs. Little Mother sensed this, half-pitifully. She was in everybody's way. Even Boy would have a certain sense of relief in her absence. There were his wife and child and career— enough to keep any man's mind occupied. They would help him, if not to forget, at least not to miss her. Time and custom wipe out many things. New children would come—they would hear of her sometimes, of course: she could trust Boy's loyalty for that—but their childish love. Their sense of kinship would never unfold. Little Mother pictured herself growing, as years went on. Less and less to all of them—and finally so little, in a real sense. That when the word came, it would mean but a momentary wrench to be quickly assuaged. She might even die alone in that far off place. Little Mother's sorrowful brooding was interrupted by a sudden knock at the door. She went hastily and signed for the telegram mechanically but with trembling hands. She did not open or read the message, for her heart told her beforehand what LITTLE MOTHER 251 - was. The last blow had fallen that could wring little Mother's heart. There was no God after all. A Being supreme in knowledge and power and mercy would have spared her this anguish. He would have taken her life— so wretched and useless, and saved that other truthful one for its well started pilgrimage. Boy dead! It was a thing absolutely monstrous—unholy! For the first time in her life Little Mother's lips began to frame something almost blasphemous— *"Why, Little Mother! You must be having bad dreams. If you thrash about with your arms like that you'll hurt the Babe." It was Big Man's voice, a little curious and anxious. "She saw too much company yesterday," said the nurse from the corner, where she was putting a fresh cluster of roses into a vase. The Excitement has made her feverish, and I shall put a stop to visitors' calls for at least a week." "That dictum does not include her best beau, I hope," said Big Man, including Little Mother and the Boy in a general hug." "Let me take him," said Little Mother quite wildly, clasping the Boy hungrily to hear heart." He is mine—I tell you—I have gone down to the gate of death to gain him. He is mine—to keep." Thoughts of Mother By a Missionary, Velma Brinkerhoff Somehow the world's not quite the same With you so far away; T sometimes dream of you at night; I think of you each day. You are the dearest pal I've had— Can I forget your face? Though many friends are round me here, Which one can take your place? When evening comes, when lights are low My memory flies to you, To all your sweet and loving ways— The things you used to do. How oft you smoothed each childish grief And helped me when I fell; And the secrets deep I've told to you— Heart thoughts you'll never tell. When my field work here has ended And from duty's call I'm free, I shall go straight home to greet the pal, Who is all the world to me! STAKE PRESIDENTS OF SALT LAKE COUNTY 1. Hazel Greenwood, Liberty; 2. Luacine S. Clark, Ensign; 3. Lettie T. Cannon, Pioneer; 4. Mary J. B. Pixton, West Jordan; 5. Mary Isabelle Horne, 1st Stake President; 6. Elizabeth C. Williams, Salt Lake; 7. Vera P. Walquist, Cottonwood; 8. Emmaretta G. Brown, Granite; 9. Elfleda L. Jensen, East Jordan; 10. Wanitage B. Daynes, Grant; 11. Emma S. Jacobs, Semi-Centennial Review of the Relief Societies of Salt Lake County By Lettte T. Cannon One of the most inspiring and magnificent performances ever presented to the people of Salt Lake was the Semi-Centennial Review "Onward" given in the Tabernacle March 16, 1928. The combined Relief Societies of Salt Lake county and about six hundred Relief Society women took part. "Onward," an epic of progress,—a symbolic picturization in song and story—commemorates the organization of the first Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, its development and growth into the present ten stakes: Salt Lake, Granite, Ensign, Liberty, Pioneer, Cottonwood, Grant, Oquirrh, East Jordan and West Jordan. It is from the pen of Claire Stewart Boyer, a writer of promise, whose poems will be studied in the Literary department this year. "Onward" is divided into three parts: I, Our Heritage; II, Our Growth; III, Our Presidents. Part I, is a picturization of our past general presidents who were characterized by the following women: Emma Smith by Etta F. Toronto; Eliza R. Snow by Nettie M. McAllister; Zina D. H. Young by Zina Y. Card; Bathsheba Smith by Donnetta S. Kessler; Emmeline B. Wells by Ameda S. Young. A fitting tribute was paid to each of these presidents who worked so earnestly and unselfishly for the great Relief Society cause, and who left their work and example as our heritage. Part II, symbolizes the growth of the; Relief Society in Salt Lake county form the first stake organization in 1877 with Mary Isabelle Horne as president, up to the present ten stakes. The Mother Stake Nina O. Edwards represented the Mother Stake, Salt Lake, "For it was given to thee to be a Mother Stake, A Relief Society Mother Stake to the daughters of Zion, In 1877 thou stepp'st forth, thine arms extended; Thou gaz'st at the mountains in the East, and breathed in courage, 
 Thou gaz'st at the lake in the West, and thy heart was wrapped in peace; Then, prayerfully, thou sett'st thyself to the tasks before thee, As became a Woman of Purpose. With thy growth in the valley of the mountains, Came a new radiance to thy countenance, Came a new joy to thy soul, Thou felt'st the throbbings of the hearts of the future, And with the guidance of thine instinct, Thou keep'st thy body strong and clean and refreshed, Thy mind advancing, and thy spirit Tuned to the great eternal rhythm." And in Fulfillment came the other stakes represented by Irene Thoresen as Grant; Inez R. Preece, Pioneer; Emily Podmore, Cottonwood; Ida Whipple, Oquirrh; Gertrude Pierson, East Jordan; Ethel J. McMullen, West Jordan; Elnora Ward, Liberty; Ruby E. Campbell, Ensign; and Esther C. Sandberg, Granite. 'And each in turn, upon the foundation thou hadst given them, Formed a glorious stake, Inspiring the daughters of Zion To greater works. And to each stake has come a marvelous strength, For faith and love have entered her organization, And upheld her in all things, And therefore, she was blessed." The Daughter Stakes In the Development Mable Fisher and Lillian Schwendiman represent Grant Stake; Margaret C. Clayton and Ruth E. Cutler, Pioneer; Beatrice Diamond and Victoria Anderson, Oquirrh; Elizabeth B. Poulton and Rachel M. Seare, Salt Lake; Emma Flowers and Annie Bowden, Cottonwood; Mary Creer and Lola Copenhaver, Liberty; Alma R. LaFont and Carol B. Richards, Granite; Diana Kolsolake and Cora G. Snow, Ensign; Fern Hendrickson and Mina Mickelson, East Jordan; Alice J. Cooper and Edith Dahl, West Jordan. "And the nine daughter stakes have seen the vision Their mother saw before them; That God had made all things, and made them well, ~ That God loved all things, and had placed that love In the hearts of his children; That God had a purpose noble and divine in this, His vineyard, And that to them He had given a knowledge of that purpose And a share of His work He had put into their hands for completion— ) REVIEW OF THE RELIEF SOCIETIES ZS That Christ's Kingdom might be built upon the earth." These women, gowned in gold costumes with white wigs, made a most impressive sight. Part III, presented our sixth and present General President, Clarissa S. Williams, dressed in white. "Most gracious leader of these latter days, Thine eyes have seen the glory of His plan, Thy heart has leapt with joy in its response Since in His vineyard, this thy trust began; Thou hast been blest with vision for our needs, Thou hast been crowned with wisdom in thy ways, With purpose thou hast filled our thousand hearts, With happiness hast filled our thousand days." Sister Williams was joined by the ten stake presidents, Emmaretta G. Brown, Granite; Elizabeth C. Williams, Salt Lake; Luacine S. Clark, Ensign; Lettie T. Cannon, Pioneer; Hazel Greenwood, Liberty; Winifred B. Daynes, Grant; Emma S. Jacobs, Oquirrh; Elfleda L. Jensen, East Jordan; Mary J. B. Pixton, West Jordan; and Vera P. Walquist, Cottonwood, all dressed in white with jeweled, gold-colored girdles. "Under the care of ten wise presidents, The stakes that nestle in the valleys old Have reached a fair and monumental strength, A joy to contemplate and to behold." A Hundred Wards Then from the back of the Tabernacle, down either aisle came the present ward presidents gowned in white. "A hundred wards are mothered and matured Within the stakes, by women diligent, Who give their time and strength and faith and love To serve them worthily as Presidents." And then came the "flagstones of the past," the past stake and ward presidents, the former gowned in lavender, the latter in white. "For faithful leaders ever light the way For truth's expansion, and the world will bless These women who have made the Gospel sure, These loyal devotees of righteousness." It was a stirring sight to see these women, many of them three-score years and ten, who have labored so faithfully and earnestly, and who have given of their time, their love and 
 their strength to the Relief Society cause. Many eyes were filled with tears, and all were touched by the wonderful spectacle before them. And as Mrs. Stewart read the Finale all hearts joined with her in saying, The Work Goes On "Thus in these latter days The work goes on. Thousands of minds directed every day, Thousands of hearts are purified anew, Thousands of minds are moulded by the plan The past in all its glory could not dream Of Zion fairer than she is today; Of Zion's women singing on a hill; Of Zion's women working with a will To bring Salvation to a hungry world. Then upward, upward and onward Their aim will ever be, With praises to the God of Earth And of Eternity." The poem was beautifully read by Mrs. Grace Nixon Stewart, whose voice carried to the farthermost part of the Tabernacle, inspiring all with the grandeur and beauty of Relief Society work as depicted. Much credit is due Mrs. Irma Felt Bitner for her splendid work in directing the Review; she was ably assisted by Annie C. Kimball, Inez Witbeck and Erma Roland. Mrs. Ida Horne White, known to Relief Society workers as the author of the music to "The Mothers' Plea," composed the music for the "Pledge," and with Mrs. Agnes M. Bolto, she had charge of the chorus of one hundred women whose inspiring singing of Mendelssohn's "Lift Thine Eyes" and Mrs. White's "With Heavenly Inspiration" and the "Pledge" song, added greatly to the enjoyment of the performance. Tracy Y. Cannon, Tabernacle organist, provided artistic accompaniments on the great organ. Mrs. Anna G. Ipson, accompanist for rehearsals, was also pianist for the Review. An instrumental trio composed of Aurelia Shimer, Ireta Roylance, and Mary Mortimer, did beautiful work in accompanying the Reader in Part I and in rendering a selection between Parts I and II. Mrs. Lillian G. Shurtliff had charge of the costumes. The invocation and the benediction were offered by Louise Y. Robison and Jennie B. Knight of the presidency of the General Board of the Relief Society. The Review Committee consisted of the Presidents and Board members of the ten stakes, with Emmaretta G. Brown, General Chairman.
Mother By Amy Kemp
Though each year makes you sweeter and makes me love you more, Yet each day takes you closer to that far-off blessed shore; Still I dare not think of parting—may distant be that day! While I turn time's booklet backwards and think of yesterday.
There I see our kitchen table with cover spread for eight, There I see my father smiling as he nears our garden gate, Then I see all of us children—for then we numbered six, And I hear our laughing voices as we played at kiddies' tricks.
Then I see our old time wash-stand, where you combed and curled our hair; And I hear that sweet, soft lullaby you sang to baby fair; In turn we knelt before you, and you taught us how to pray, Your simple, humble, heart-felt words we all were taught to say.
And then we'd run and jump and bounce upon our little bed, And we knew that God would bless us, for our evening-prayer we'd said. Yes, those were all quite happy days, with not a thought of care, So as I look on yesterday, those hours seem sweet and rare.
But one by one the children leave and make themselves a home, And as time's wheels roll on and on, with Dad you're left alone, And so I pray that God will grant you old-felt love anew, That you may both be happy in everything you do.
So when life's journey's over and you go beyond the veil, You may know God's greatest glory, since here you did not fail, And may we children live to be an answer to your prayer, That we may thus repay you for your loving tender care.
When a Man Needs a Mother A Record from the Spokane County Jail By Philena Fletcher Homer, Ph. D.
Years ago Dr. Pentecost, the celebrated revivalist, began a series of religious services in Saltcoats, Scotland. During these meetings he and his assistant, a Miss Ticer, organized a children's class, like the Primary of the L. D. S. Church, except that it was undenominational. When the time came for Dr. Pentecost and Miss Ticer to move on to other fields, they looked around for some one to carry on the work. As Mrs. Mary Lambie was one of the most enthusiastic of their co-workers, they engaged her to keep up the organization. At first she was undecided. "I knew if I began that I should have to hold on," she said; but at last she consented.
For seventeen years this sweet little Scotch woman gathered the children of the community together every Thursday afternoon for spiritual training. Children of all denominations and all creeds came there, and under her inspiring leadership learned the lesson of God's love.
In May, 1911, she followed her only daughter to America and came to live in Spokane, Washington. Mrs. Lambie had been there only a short time when some friends asked her to visit the Spokane jail with them. What she saw there that Sunday afternoon moved and touched her; she felt that here was her life work—the work for which she had been especially called. To use her own words: "So grieved was I to see so many prisoners behind the bars, young men needing their mothers, that I pledged myself to God that if he would give me my health, I would visit them for him. The tears ran down my cheeks and I could not speak a word."
So began her sixteen-year-long career as "The Mother of the Spokane County Jail." She is eighty now, a lovely, sweet-faced, little Scotch woman; yet every Sunday she takes the long ride from her home to the jail, a distance of nearly two miles, to carry her message of love and cheer to her boys, as she calls them. Sunday is her day; from twelve until two she has the run of the jail, standing for two hours in the bleak corridors that she may talk to each man individually. "I can't speak to them sitting down," she said, "I must come close to the door and speak to them from my very heart."
WHEN A MAN NEEDS A MOTHER 259
She not only gives them spiritual comfort, but helps them in many ways. Sometimes it is a sum of money sent by anxious loved one that she lays away for the lonely boys until they are free; sometimes she writes a letter; sometimes helps the homeless man or boy to find shelter and food, until he gets on his feet; sometimes finds a Bible in their own language for the foreign-born. But whatever her service, it is given with such a spirit of love that it is never forgotten.
Mother Lambie is one of the few people who are allowed the run of the jail. As Jim McCowan, veteran jailer, says: "She is the only person who is universally welcome at the jail." There is no cell to which she is not allowed to go, no criminal so desperate that she is not allowed to speak to him and give her message of love and sympathy. She is not like many who visit such institutions; she knows what they need and she gives it to them. In Mother Lambie there is nothing of the "I am holier than thou." Her only thought is to comfort, not to blame, criticize, or sermonize.
One day last spring she was unable to go to the jail. The following Sunday, as soon as she came in, a shout ran from cell to cell. "Mother's here, mother's here;" and then some mischievous boy shouted "Mother's here, but she's not coming up." Immediately from the second floor came a great uproar; but Mrs. Lambie called out, "I'm here and I'm coming up."
From the far corners of the earth messages come to her; sent by those she has helped. A short time ago a man came up to her and said, "You don't remember me, but I do you. You visited me in jail fifteen years ago."
Two things Mrs. Lambie counts among her greatest treasures. One is a poem written by a friend to celebrate her eightieth birthday, and published in the Saltcoats, Scotland, paper. The other is a letter from one of her boys, written about two years after he left jail. In it he says: "You brought so many happy hours into my life when I was so miserable, but these are better days. I was married last May. My girl waited almost two years for me to get readjusted. It is fine to have a home of your own, isn't it? Am going to the University in January. Have only two more years left."
Thousands of the pitiful inmates of the jail have received her loving ministrations; boys, frightened and heartsick, or in for some mad prank, drunks, confidence men, old offenders, hardened criminals, even murderers, but they all have one name for her—Mother Lambie, and as the jailer says: "A man needs a mother when he's down and out."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS

THE GENERAL BOARD