[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Grandma | Author: Phillips]
Grandma Had a Parlor Helen S. Phillips home with that "lived-in'" A look — what an apt description of most present day households! Seldom does an inch of space go to waste, so functional is the modern home. Yet, surrounded as we are by the miracles of pushbutton living, it is difficult to resist a twinge of envy when we consider the household of Grandmother's day. Grandma had a parlor. Not for her that "lived-in" look, at least not in that room! Grandmother's parlor was severely neat and forever tidy. As a matter of fact, she staked her housekeeping reputation on the appearance of that one room. Those were the days, remember, when the front parlor was kept closed off from the rest of the house. It was considered to be the family "no man's land," regardless of how many — or how few — other rooms there were in the house. As part of the daily cleaning routine, "straightening up the parlor' was always given first priority. No flick of dust was permitted to remain anywhere near the doilies on the organ, or on any of the rest of the furniture, for that matter. No wayward scrolls of lint ever dared to gather beneath the horsehair sofa. And absolutely unheard of were assorted toys or building blocks cluttering up the center of the room, or providing an obstacle course for the doorway. No indeed! Every day, Grandmother's parlor was efficiently cleaned and thoroughly polished. Then the door was closed firmly, and kept closed in Page 178 the event that someone might pay an unexpected call. Perhaps the Visiting Teachers might be making their rounds. Here was a room that could face any crisis! Remember how fascinating it was when, as a child, on special occasions you were permitted to cross the threshold of that inviting room? It always seemed to take a minute or two before your lungs could adjust to the closed-in, airless atmosphere. But after that, what fun it was to explore! Remember what a joy it was to admire the colorful bouquet of dried strawflowers? It was years before you discovered they weren't real. How entertaining to leaf through the family picture album which shared space on the front © room table with the family Bible. How fascinating to gaze at the framed portraits of your ancestors, some of whom even had real samples of the owner's hair pressed behind the glass!) Remember how you always held the giant seashell up to your ear as you listened to the roar of the ocean? Yes, and could anything surpass your joy the day you discovered you could read for yourself all those witty, delightful mottoes which were stenciled on the stiff sofa pillows? 'The colorful afghan, the braided and hand-hooked rugs, the crocheted -table centerpieces — all were made by Grandmother's nimble fingers, yet in your youthful eyes nothing was half so beautiful as the decorative spray of wheat, gilded with real gold. Apart from the nostalgic memory of those visits to that fasci- GRANDMA HAD A PARLOR nating room, thinking of Grandmother's parlor arouses a pang of envy for quite another reason. What a perfect housekeeping aid it would be if every present day mother could have just such a room! A real, old-fashioned parlor, not merely the family room which is currently in vogue. How comforting it would be to know that unexpected visitors could be entertained easily in tidy, uncluttered surroundings. A room where you could relax and chat pleasantly with guests, without letting your eyes stray guiltily to sticky fingerprints on the piano, or to the withered core of last might's apple that your teen-ager parked on the base of the floor lamp. How uplifting to the ego it would be if you could enter just one room in 179 the house, catch your breath at its gleaming perfection, and feel that perhaps you weren't the world's worst homemaker after all! How wonderful to have a quiet, peaceful sanctuary where everything could be kept in its proper place; a pleasant room that would never be shaken by teen-age tornadoes or pre-school cyclones. Well... Families grow up, and our responsibilities toward them lessen. 'That's as true now as it was in any of the "olden days." And even though we know it is a blessing to live in the most enlightened age of all time, it is still difficult to restrain an envious. Twinge when recalling the household of Grandmother's day. Because Grandma had a parlor. Lot a Drum Was Heard Dorothy J]. Roberts She passed in silence; not a drum was heard Sounding for a medal pinned on bravery's breast. For courage beyond duty, no drum flared. She passed in quiet to the realms of rest. She gave a hero's measure with a smile On the rugged path of duty from her birth. Now unacclaimed before a cheering crowd She joins the unsung valiant of the earth. No drum was heard for one surpassing deed; Her days were hills she climbed without complaint. Now emptiness is tall where she has stood, Who reached the heights of hero and of saint. Jts the Se ood You &at Shat Counts Dr. Margaret Merkley Utah State University Nutrition Department I'S the food you eat that counts, whether you are eight or eighty. The number of food items in today's markets may make your choice confusing. Your daily food guide is an aid in pointing out the kinds of food to include in your meals. 'The United States DepartFood Groups I. Milk group II. Bread-Cereal group (whole-grain, enriched, or restored ) III. Vegetable-Fruit group Include: A citrus fruit or other fruit or vegetable high in vitamin C A dark-green or deep-yellow vegetable for vitamin A — at least every other day. Other vegetables and fruits, including potatoes. IV. Meat group Beef, veal, pork, lamb, poultry, fish, eggs, and as alternates, dry beans, dry peas, nuts. Ment of Agriculture has developed a food guide which will provide your needs for vitamins, minerals, protein, and other nutrients. These foods are grouped into four classes according to their nutrient contributions: Daily Amount for Adults 2 cups 4 OF more servings 1 serving: 1 slice bread 1 Oz. Ready-to-eat cereal "2, - % cup cooked cereal 4 or more servings 1 serving: % cup 1 orange or apple "2 grapefruit 2 OF more servings Add other foods as needed to complete meals and to provide additional food energy and other food values. Long life is getting to be a habit. Many people can look forward to living beyond "three-score and ten." But many, with the accumulation of birthdays, are not as healthy and happy as they could be if they were wise eaters. Indications of aging are not clearly defined. An adult is not a young person "grown up." Aging begins at conception and continues until Page 180 the end of life. The fundamental requirements for good nutrition are basically the same throughout life, but the aging process does produce some changes. 'The food requirements for older people are not as clearly understood as for children and youth. During these periods growth makes changes in nutritional needs.