[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 25 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

On behalf of all the sisters of this mission, thank you so much for The Relief Society Magazine. Even those who cannot read English enjoy the lovely covers and illustrations, and the elders often tell us they find some of the most inspiring material in The Relief Society Magazine.
—Lois Geniel Jensen
President Uruguayan Mission Relief Society
Montevideo, Uruguay

For some time I have intended writing to tell you how much I enjoy reading The Relief Society Magazine. I have received the Magazine as a gift from Mrs. R. B. Capps of Hartsville, South Carolina, whose son Garn S. Capps was a missionary here for some time. I like the lesson department and also very much enjoyed the articles on the restoration of the Bee Hive House (by Helen S. Williams, July and August 1960). I look forward to receiving the Magazine every month, and my family and I are truly grateful to Sister Capps.
—Mrs. H. A. Hughes
Charters Towers, Australia

The Magazine for January 1961 has arrived. I must comment on the cover of this issue by Claire Noall. It is beautiful! I do appreciate the coloring and proportion of the picture.
—Mrs. Florence H. Hanson
Salt Lake City, Utah

We treasure the Magazine. It makes us feel more a part of this great organization to know what other Relief Societies are doing all over the world.
—Pauline R. Stevens
President Big Horn Stake Relief Society
Lovell, Wyoming

We are very thrilled and grateful for the things to make that are found in the Magazine each month.
—Dorothy Tobiasson
Ashland, Oregon

May we in the North British Mission express our appreciation for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It is the Magazine that stays within my constant reach for lovely talks, poems, and stories. The beautiful, colorful covers are so inviting to all of us. I know our Magazine sales have greatly improved these past few months. It is such a joy to open each new issue and find articles written by those whom you have loved and associated with.
—Nada R. Brockbank
President North British Mission Relief Society
Hale, Cheshire

The poetry in the Magazine is always lovely, and the stories are becoming more sensitive and real. I find spiritual enrichment each month from the moment I take the Magazine from the mailbox and view with charmed vision the beautiful cover, to the moment I file it away read from cover to cover.
—Wanda F. Hilton
Walnut Creek, California

Thank you so very much for our wonderful Magazine. The sweet spirit of the gospel is expressed on every page, on the cover, in pictures, poetry, and prose. How I look forward to receiving it every month! What a power for good it would be if it could be placed and read in every home throughout the world.
—Miss Golda A. Thomas
Farmington, Missouri

May I say that some of the dearest and most prized associations in my life have been among the Relief Society members. I love the organization and the Magazine, and I could be listed among the young mothers. I have seven children and have been a teacher in Relief Society for the past six years, I should say I have been "a Class leader."
—Esther H. Yeaman
Burley, Idaho