[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  J/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  March  i,  and  March  15,  1901 
**FoR  THE  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
A  WORD  OF  LOVE  AND  GREETING:  ...  we  bear  you  our  testimony  that 
the  work  we  are  engaged  in  is  of  God.  That  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  and  the  Rehef  Society,  which  is  a  portion  of  that  Church,  were  organized  by  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord.  That  we  knew  Joseph  Smith  personally,  and  saw  and  heard  him 
many  times  speaking  to  the  Saints  when  he  was  so  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  that  his  countenance  became  transparent,  and  he  looked  and  spoke  hke  a 
heavenly  being.  .  .  .  We  desire  to  leave  this  testimony  with  you  all,  and  to  have  you 
understand  and  remember  that  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  organized  our  Relief  Society 
that  we  might  have  the  glorious  privilege  of  doing  the  same  kind  of  work  that  our  Lord 
and  Savior  did  when  He  was  upon  this  earth  ...  in  looking  after  the  sick  and  the 
afflicted,  the  poor  and  the  needy  .  .  .  and  all  who  are  discouraged  or  in  any  way 
troubled.  .  .  . 
—  Zina  D.  IL  Young,  Jane  S.  Richards,  Bathsheba  W.  Smith,  Sarah  J.  Cannon 
A  WOMAN  SUPERINTENDENT:  Miss  Estelle  Reel,  Superintendent  of  Indian 
Education,  has  just  issued  her  annual  report,  from  which  the  following  extracts  are 
made.  Since  her  appointment  26  months  ago.  Miss  Reel  has  been  in  the  field  17 
months,  has  inspected  49  schools,  traveled  4,138  miles,  of  which  2,087  iriil^s  were 
covered  by  wagon,  pack  horse  and  on  foot,  over  lofty  mountains,  through  dense  forests, 
on  remote  frontiers  and  over  rugged  trails  between  precipitous  cliffs. 
— Notes  and  News 
THE  POET 
He  presses  on  before  the  race, 
And  sings  out  of  a  silent  place, 
Like  faint  notes  of  a  forest  bird 
On  heights  afar  that  voice  is  heard; 
And  the  dim  path  he  breaks  today 
Will  some  time  be  a  trodden  way.  .  .  . 
— Selected 
HOW  TO  FORGIVE:  ...  We  are  all  God's  children,  with  all  our  faults  and 
failings,  and  very  liable  to  yield  to  temptation.  If  we  are  not  able  to  do  a  great  work, 
can  we  not  do  good  in  little  things?  always  having  leniency  one  with  another,  selecting 
the  good  from  a  person's  character  and  letting  the  bad  alone;  filling  our  lives  with  so 
much  good  that  the  evil  will  have  no  place  whatever.  .  .  . 
— R.  A.  S. 
A  TRIBUTE  OF  LOVE  —  JANE  BALLANTYNE  TAYLOR:  Sister  Taylor 
was  a  woman  of  generous  impulses  and  gave  much  to  the  needy,  and  she  was  especially 
charitable  in  her  estimate  of  the  character  of  others.  It  is  said  of  her  that  she  never 
spoke  evil  of  any  one;  silence  was  her  habit  when  there  was  gossip  .  .  .  unless  she 
could  refute  what  was  being  said.  .  .  . — E.  B.  W. 
Page  162