[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 07 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Available]
[Notes to the Field: Index for 1960 Relief Society Magazine Available]
ed trails between precipitous cliffs. —Notes and News THE POET He presses on before the race, And sings out of a silent place, Like faint notes of a forest bird On heights afar that voice is heard; And the dim path he breaks today Will some time be a trodden way. —Selected HOW TO FORGIVE:... We are all God's children, with all our faults and failings, and very liable to yield to temptation. If we are not able to do a great work, can we not do good in little things? Always having leniency one with another, selecting the good from a person's character and letting the bad alone; filling our lives with so much good that the evil will have no place whatever. —R. A. S. A TRIBUTE OF LOVE — JANE BALLANTYNE TAYLOR: I Sister Taylor was a woman of generous impulses and gave much to the needy, and she was especially charitable in her estimate of the character of others. It is said of her that she never spoke evil of any onc; silence was her habit when there was gossip... Unless she could refute what was being said. —E. B. W. Page 162 LANCA PEREZ is one of the rapidly growing middle-class Colombian women (South America) who are becoming important to the life of their country, and who voted for the first time in the 1960 elections. Although Colombian women were given the vote in 1954, fear and a lack of understanding prevented many from using this right. The growth of a strong middle class (between the wealthy citizens and the very poor peons) is Strengthening all Latin American countries, and women from this group have become very active in social betterment and educational projects. BETSEY TALBOT BLACKWELL, editor of Mademoiselle magazine, has announced the selection of ten young women (under thirty) who have received the 1960 Merit Awards for distinctive achievement. 'The women are: Patricia Bath, specialist in cancer research at Hunter College; Lynn Seymour, Canadian born, now a star in the Royal Ballet (British); Jane Powell Rosenthal, museum curator and field archeologist who specializes in pre-Columbian American cultures; Elizabeth Seal, English actress, now playing on Broadway, New York; Wilma Rudolph, American Olympic star, winner of three gold medals Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon recently in Rome; Susan Greenburg, an expert photographer of "elusive moments," trained at Sarah Lawrence College and at Yale; Lee Bontecou, sculptress, American born, studied in Italy, and is famous for her bronze birds; Julie Isles, American designer of simple clothing for women; Elaine May, political commentator, educated at the University of Chicago; Helen Jean Rogers, former instructor in political theory at Harvard, now a television producer of special subjects representing world-wide people and events. ILEEN FARRELL, gifted American soprano, will sing the title role in Gluck's "Alceste" at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City this coming season. 'Two of her recent recording albums are classical in repertory and include art songs of Schubert, Schumann, Debussy, and Poulenc, rendering each of these masterworks with rare taste. Critics have acclaimed her voice as "rising to magnificent heights of tonal beauty and dramatic power." OMEN in journalism are becoming increasingly important. 'Today, in the United States, nearly half of the editors and reporters are women. 'Their specialty — women's pages of newspapers and magazines — now occupies a position of prestige and importance. Page 163 OQ-> EDITORIAL cm VOL 


 NO. 3 sisters in the Gospel '*QISTERS in the gospel" is a meaningful phrase to Latterday Saint women. 'These sisters, united in one faith, closely associated in ideals and goals, working with religious and charitable purpose, are bound in a great bond of sisterhood. 'lhe bond is acclaimed with love and sincerity from the far reaches of the earth. 'There are no boundaries to the companionship of sisterhood. No sister is ever alone, no matter how remote her habitation, who desires to be one with the sisterhood of Relief Society. The spirit of urgency to teach the gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people is the moving force which is resulting in a vastly incrcased corps of missionaries, the opening of new missions, and the establishing of new stakes far from the headquarters of the Church. With each new mission and each new stake a Relief Society is organized to do the work assigned to the women of the Church. "All must act in concert" the Prophet counseled, so each new group of sisters comes under the direction of those appointed to lead. With each addition, the strength and influence of Relief Society is enlarged, and opportunity comes to more sisters to join IN SCrvice. It was never more apparent that the Lord has important work for his daughters to do, and never more apparent that through Relief Society Page 164 the work may be done. Helping to bring about the kingdom of God, saving souls, teaching the gospel, and serving with love and compassion are aspects of the work the sisters are expected to perform. Service to others is the underlying principle of the brotherhood of man, President David O. McKay has stated. The effectiveness of this service is multiplied when given in unity with a world-wide sisterhood and the joy of shared work is heightened. A devoted sisterhood, working under the direction of the Priesthood, united in the desire to serve, is a potent force in this great latter-day effort to spread the light of the gospel throughout the earth. The leadership of a great unified body of women is necessary to help combat the godless philosophies of evil circulated by those who would enslave the world. Sisters, open your eyes! Let your vision be enlarged to the great work to be done and the matchless opportunity you have to do it. Count as one of the great blessings of your lives that you are living to see the prophesies concerning the growth of the Church fulfilled. See beyond the confines of your own circle and reach out to encircle the sisters of other nations who have sought and found the truth and now need to be led to new vistas of knowledge and service. Seek those who have not yet been taught. Work as the EDITORIAL Lord would have you work, under the direction of Relief Society, which is guided. By the Priesthood, to bring solace, comfort and tender 165 necessitated sacrifices. Feel the motivating power of testimony, and bear your testimony that it may help strengthen others. Live in exemplary care to those in need. Sisters, Open your hearts! Welcome with warmth and sustained interest every new convert. E: xercise sisterly kindness in all your relationships. Encourage those who need encouragement. Seek understanding of the customs and traditions of the strangers in your midst. Recognize the courage of those whose acceptance of the gospel has conformity to the teachings of the Savior. Accept your responsibility to do your part. Pray for one another. Open your souls to the overwhelming desire to be instruments in the hands of the Lord to help bring about his purposes. Sisters everywhere, be in very deed SISTERS IN.'FHE GOSPEL. —L. W. M. <> To Robot Sask Mabel Law Atkinson The spirit of the land grew strong in him, Became the very essence of his soul. At seedtime and at harvest he would brim With joy. He gently drove the mare with foal Before the plough, one of his shining team, Or pulling swaying loads of meadow hay. Often he paused while driving through the stream To let the thirsty horses drink. When day Was gently closed by one clear killdeer note, He viewed the stars above his fields of wheat— God and the land were his, and from his throat A song ascended through air country-sweet. No robot task to dwarf his mind and limb— The spirit of the land grew strong in him!

-~> A Tew Urewpoint Celia Larsen Luce V HEN we go on a trip we enjoy the scenery. We notice lovely trees against tall mountains, or great, majestic sweeps of desert grandeur. __ Often we come home over the same road. Do we tire of the scenery because we Just saw it? Not a bit. Coming home, we are looking at things from a different direction. 'Trees and hills and plains look different and new when viewed from a new direction. Everyday living often palls because of its sameness. If I can only look at life from a new direction, with a fresh smile or a song, the sameness disappears and life's true beauty shines forth.