[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: 180 Maren C. Jensen, Expert Quilter and Happy Seamstress]
liLaren   C  Jensen, 
ibxpert  kluuter  ana  diappii  Seamstress 
"IV  yfAREN  C.  Jensen,  Orem,  Utah,  is  gifted  in  the  arts  of  handwork  and  sewing. 
^  ^  Quilting  is  her  specialty,  and  she  has  made  hundreds  of  quilts  for  her  family 
and  friends.  It  is  her  proud  record  that  she  has  helped  to  quilt  every  quilt  made  in 
the  wards  where  she  has  resided.  She  knits  rapidly  and  expertly,  making  mittens  and 
hose  and  many  other  articles  of  wearing  apparel,  as  well  as  decorative  pieces  for  her  home. 
Her  crocheting  is  delicately  beautiful,  much  of  it  made  in  original  designs.  A  skilled 
seamstress,  she  helped  her  sister  run  a  dressmaking  shop. 
Now  eighty-five  years  old,  Maren  C.  Jensen  was  born  in  Termestrup,  Denmark. 
When  very  young  she  helped  her  mother  support  nine  fatherless  children.  When  she 
heard  the  Latter-day  Saint  elders  singing  the  gospel  hymns,  the  words  and  the  message 
seemed  familiar  to  her.  She  joined  the  Church  and  came  to  Utah  in  1904,  and  that 
same  year  married  Jens  C.  Jensen,  also  a  Danish  convert.  They  are  the  parents  of  four 
children,  all  holding  positions  of  honor  and  responsibility  in  the  Church  and  in  the 
community.  For  sixty  years  Sister  Jensen  has  been  a  faithful  visiting  teacher  and  has 
also  served  as  a  ward  Relief  Society  president.  Her  busy  hands  and  her  happy  heart 
have  been  a  blessing  to  her  family,  her  community,  and  her  many  dexoted  friends. 
/ 
4 
illy   (flinging  uland 
Gladys  Hesser  Burnham 
I  never  knew  before  today 
How  much  you  really  meant  to  me, 
Your  judgment  swayed  my  waking  thoughts 
I  sought  ad\  ice  unceasingly. 
The  reason  why  you  left  me  here 
Could  be  that  I  must  learn  to  stand 
Alone,  think  independently, 
And  so  you  loosed  my  clinging  hand. 
Page  190