[Vol48 | March 1961 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Home | Title: 208 FEATURES FOR THE HOME A New Viewpoint Celia Larsen Luce]
EDITORIAL 
165 
Lord  would  have  you  work,  under 
the  direction  of  Rehef  Society, 
which  is  guided  by  the  Priesthood, 
to  bring  solace,  comfort  and  tender 
care  to  those  in  need. 
Sisters,  open  your  hearts!  Wel- 
come with  warmth  and  sustained 
interest  every  new  convert.  Exer- 
cise sisterlv  kindness  in  all  vour 
relationships.  Encourage  those  who 
need  encouragement.  Seek  under- 
standing of  the  customs  and  tradi- 
tions of  the  strangers  in  your  midst. 
Recognize  the  courage  of  those 
whose  acceptance  of  the  gospel  has 
necessitated  sacrifices.  Feel  the  mo- 
tivating power  of  testimony,  and 
bear  your  testimony  that  it  may  help 
strengthen  others.  Live  in  exemplary 
conformity  to  the  teachings  of  the 
Savior.  Accept  your  responsibility 
to  do  your  part.  Pray  for  one  an- 
other. Open  your  souls  to  the  over- 
whelming desire  to  be  instruments 
in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  to  help 
bring  about  his  purposes. 
Sisters  evervwhere,  be  in  very  deed 
SISTERS  IN  THE  GOSPEL. 
-L.  W.  M. 
//o  uiobot  cJask 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
The  spirit  of  the  land  grew  strong  in  him, 
Became  the  very  essence  of  his  soul. 
At  seedtime  and  at  harvest  he  would  brim 
With  joy.    He  gently  drove  the  mare  with  foal 
Before  the  plough,  one  of  his  shining  team. 
Or  pulling  swaying  loads  of  meadow  hay. 
Often  he  paused  while  driving  through  the  stream 
To  let  the  thirsty  horses  drink.    When  day 
Was  gently  closed  by  one  clear  killdeer  note, 
He  viewed  the  stars  above  his  fields  of  wheat — 
God  and  the  land  were  his,  and  from  his  throat 
A  song  ascended  through  air  country-sweet. 
No  robot  task  to  dwarf  his  mind  and  limb — 
The  spirit  of  the  land  grew  strong  in  him! 
c/t    I  Lew    Viewpoint 
CeJia  Laiscn  Luce 
\liTllEN  we  go  on  a  trip  we  enjoy  the  scenery.     We  notice  lovely  trees  against  tall 
•  *      mountains,  or  great,  majestic  sweeps  of  desert  grandeur. 
Often  we  come  home  over  the  same  road.  Do  we  tire  of  the  scenery  because  we 
just  saw  it?  Not  a  bit.  Coming  home,  we  are  looking  at  things  from  a  different 
direction.  Trees  and  hills  and  plains  look  different  and  new  when  viewed  from  a  new 
direction. 
Everyday  living  often  palls  because  of  its  sameness.  If  I  can  only  look  at  life 
from  a  new  direction,  with  a  fresh  smile  or  a  song,  the  sameness  disappears  and  life's 
true  beauty  shines  forth.