The White Sands of New Mexico — cieire noai Southern New Mexico's White Sands National Monument is a maze of ever-shifting, ever-whispering dunes. Matthew and | arrived at the Visitor Center in late afternoon. We had driven down from Cloudcroft, high in the Sacramento Mountains, where we had seen brightly clothed skiers cutting glissandi in actual, pine-girt snow. Within an hour's time we lost a thousand feet in altitude but thereby gained a warmth of velvet air in arid drouth. We left roadside flowers nodding April's greeting to enter a fairyland of simulated snow. This texture holds no visible moisture; yet in the marginal dunes a scant vegetation lifts its stems forty feet through burying sands. The roots, lying incredibly deep, anchor the grains of gypsum. A few species survive, such as shrubby pennyroyal, four-wing saltbush, and dark green iodine plant. The low crowns challenge the ceaseless charge borne on the prevailing northeasterly winds. Root, stem, and leaf pedestal the restless particles until they adhere almost as if cemented together. The sands may arrive on a whisper or stampede on a gale; but, because they seldom purl beyond the bastion, the dark-blotched hills wall them in. From these highly patched border-dunes we commenced the Loop Drive, cleared as nature dictates, where, presently, no plant was seen. The white road glistened and reflected the blue of the sky. It curved in and out between winged hills, and, suddenly, | felt an irresistible desire to leave the car—which must not leave the road. | left the car and ran headlong toward the slopes, my spirit light. My husband Matthew fol- lowed at a more leisurely pace. Up the dunes | raced, weaving a pattern of footprints in cupping palms which permit no permanence. The white sands covered my sandals as 1 stood. The sands crept away like waves of water, leaving me almost without a footing. Prints dissolved under my path. Prints made by running children remained, linked for a moment only, then they vanished, even as the laughter of these young, barefooted visitors faded across the air. Children are particularly welcome at this Monument. Conservation here stands aside for recreation. Many people come—as many as 300,000 in a single season. | climbed a high slope, and every rippling wave increased in brightness according to its opposing shadow. Evening was at work. The gleam assumed the luster of mother-of-pearl. A few parallel lines, scratched on the gypsum bed at the foot of the dune, shone like mica. As the day's bright azure faded, | reached the cream-colored crest and looked into the pots of blue at my feet. Long shadows of low-keyed indigo, subdued by the non-reflecting light, gradually descended the full length of the immense oval bowl. | stood on the crest with my husband, hand in hand in the solitude of sundown, in the aloneness of April, and for me the dunes began to write a poem, a poem of accent and meter, of curving line and irregular sequence—a poem of silence, too, except for the distant calls of the children. Seconds passed. Length of line, foot, and stanza changed. We strolled down the slope to the channel, when all at once an unexpected golden light tinted every windward exposure. The alpenglow had touched each sunward crest, slope, and ripple. They shone pale as the fire of white sandalwood; then the magical veils of coral and crimson commenced to lower their hems. We turned a bend. A wee white pocket mouse caught the shimmer. It scurried away, making no more lasting impression in these shifting waves than the small bleached, earless white lizard can cut. Only these two species of animal have adapted to the white environment. Once upon a time the valley stretched between its two ranges of mountains level as a table. To the east, the Sacramentos are capped by 12,000 foot Sierra Blanca's snowbound peak. Westward, the San Andres range crests dark blue against a more remote horizon. The great sink provided no outlet for its drainage. In the distant mountains snow and rain still dissolve the gypsum. The run-off finds its way to reed-grown Lake Lucero in the southeastern corner of the Monument. When the moisture dries, it leaves behind exquisitely translucent elongated crystals. The wind, with busy fingers, tools these jewels into miniature spheres. An area of more than 275 square miles has succumbed to the display. The rare white grains move faster and pile deeper under the northeasterly winds than do the sands of any comparable area in the world's barrens. If the wind blows the sands against your car, don't worry; they'll mar neither paint nor glass; they'll not scratch your face; and though they may pelt your legs your hose will not fall apart. The grains are 192 somehow both soft and slightly heavy. They fly close to the floor, and still they shift and take shape. The dunes rise and elongate, drift and diminish, only to rise again. The Loop Drive is constantly cleared to keep it from being drifted over. The hard white road is marked by mileposts which one is asked - to respect. In the soft shoulders, the wheels of a car bog down, and, if they spin, the driver calls for help. To dig a tiny groove in the gypsum bed is to see how close to the hard surface the water level lies. A runnel forms, whose waters, being highly mineralized, support a wide variety of microscopic life; but they will not support you; they are not potable. You may picnic in the Monument provided you bring your own supplies. None are available at the Visitor Center; nor is there a restaurant. In a widely cleared area, however, among the dunes, tables are shaded by metal-slatted sails which, curving against the wind and reflecting the blue of both sky and sand, suggest a flotilla of ancient Norse ships. Food was forgotten in the gleam of alpenglow. Night was closing in. The beam of starlight soon would be tracing these ghostly crests. | asked myself what moonlight could not do for them. Again | felt the pulse of the dunes expand and decrease, rise and diminish. Again | heard the poem of silence, the runic song which sang of itself in the White Sands National Monument. For, lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come (Solomon 2:11, 12). P A Present lor Grandma Celia Luce When our daughter was about five, she and | worked out a present for her grandmother. She made several pictures, mostly of people, but some of animals, houses, and trees. | cut patterns from her pictures, and stenciled them onto a lunch cloth. Naturally | made myself one, too. Her grandmother and | have treasured them ever since. Later, | wrote to my nieces and had them send me some drawings their children had made. For Christmas | gave my sister-in-law a set of dish towels. Each dish towel had the drawing from one of her grandchildren painted on. Two of the children were almost too young to hold a crayon—this was the first. Drawing each had ever made. These were just scribbles in color, but they made interesting and precious designs on the dish towels. | never saw my sister-in-law more pleased over any gift. The stenciled cloth we made several years ago was a lot of work. The dish towels were easy. For the dish towels | used textile paints that come in tubes with a ball point on the end of the tube. They are especially good for reproducing the crayon drawings, too, for they make a mark like a crayon. | paid 50 cents a tube for the paints, but a tube contains enough paint for hundreds of uses. They are wonderful for decorating any household linens. In any textile painting, the first job is to wash the material to be painted. Most new cloth contains starchy filler. If that isn't washed out, part of the paint goes onto the starch, and the paint washes out with the starch, leaving a dull, lifeless pattern. | used two methods of transferring the design. For the older children's drawings | used a sheet of carbon paper and tracea the design onto the dish towel. For the babies' scribbles this was too complicated. | pinned the drawing under the cloth, then used a piece of glass with a light under it. Then | could see the design and draw it right on without tracing with carbon. The paints work like writing with a ball point pen. Use a scrap of old cloth to get the paint flowing right—just as you start a balky ball point pen on a scrap of paper. Then just go over the design. Push down on the tubes, but do not squeeze them very hard. Squeezing may build up pressure inside the tube that makes the paint ooze out and fill the cap after you have put it away. Embroidery hoops may be used to hold the material taut, but put the cloth in upside down from the usual way. The cloth must be below the hoops rather than above the hoops, for you must have a hard surface under the cloth to work on. Always use newspaper under the cloth as a little of the paint will come through onto the table otherwise. When the painting is finished, dampen a press cloth with vinegar and place over the design, then press with the iron. This makes the design more permanent. Use a rag for a press cloth as a little of the color comes off in this first pressing. These designs stay for a long time. They fade a little with repeated washings, but not greatly. On e- e a 5 PRED Ser eRe ne Bee Me EL. N. |e retest acco NOS RR BE RE I CIEE wet Ne Ne wot Bete TT I me wre —_ WRB a2. " nae