[Vol10 | December 1923 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial: Christmas Editorial]

People ordinarily like to be up-to-date. To do this they
generally assume that they must keep looking forward; yet it
chances that a single sentence spoken two thousand years ago,
by the angel chorus upon the Judean hills, is perhaps the most
strictly up-to-date and forward-looking sentence in the wide world
at the present time.
So important have these words become as the years have
come and gone, that they are now as the breath of our body, or as
the beat of. our pulse. To employ the words of the immortal bard,
That which they suggest, "is a consummation devoutly to be
wished."
Within the year attempts to further peace have been noted in
the offer of a Peace Prize by Edward Bok, the discussion of a
world court by President Harding, the meeting of an International
Education Association, in San Francisco, that passed peace resolutions,
which the state associations are endorsing, the recent plea of
Lloyd George that Great Britain and the United States unite for
the furtherance of world peace.
This topic does not grow old but appears to be newer with
every rising sun, with every tick of the clock. One issue of a daily
paper a few days ago, recorded three different movements looking
toward the establishment of peace.
In the face of all this activity, surely we can accelerate our
work; strive for greater love, and an increase of faith in our Redeemer that the time may come and that speedily, when we
shall neither cast behind us nor look far into the distance for that
perfect day, when all shall sing with one accord, "This is the
Millennial morn, the day dawn of peace and good will toward all
men."
The Relief Society Conference
The Relief Society Conference, of October 4, was signalized
by its practical nature. In accord with what appears
to be present day custom, health was given a very significant place
on the program.
The report of Barbara H. Richards, member of the General
Board, the address of Dr. Jane Skolfield, and notably the address
of President Clarissa S. Williams, emphasized health. The
statistics presented by President Williams are illuminating and
interesting in the very highest degree, and should form a basis
for constructive health work in the future.
The practical nature of the program was apparent in the
timely suggestions made by Jeannette A. Hyde, member of the
General Board, pertaining to the conduct of the work and business
meeting, also in the suggestions of Alice L. Reynolds, member
of the General Board, in relation to the presentation of the
literature lessons. To this group belongs the address of Julia A.
Lund, member of the General Board, who took up the problem
of the young people. Suggestions looking toward the development
of companionship between parents and children formed .some
of the most valuable passages of the address.
A touch of real beauty was added by Counselor Jennie B.
Knight in her account of the Alberta Temple, at Cardston, and
of spirituality by Counselor Louise Y. Robison, reminding us that
the Spirit of the Lord in our work enables us to do that which is
humanly impossible.
A feature of the conference, widely commented upon and
very greatly appreciated and enjoyed, was the music, under the
direction of the general chorister, Lizzie Thomas Edward.
One Grand Chorus
The old saying that all roads lead to Rome has nearly a
parallel in the present health program that is being "put over"
in the United States. Churches, schools, newspapers, legislation,
women's organizations, social workers, all persons and all organizations
interested in human welfare appear to be emphasizing
health. One gentleman observed, when the Bok peace award was
offered, that what the world needed most was not a peace plan
but some plan upon which all could unite for the furtherance of peace. People and organizations pretty generally seem to be able
to unite on the health program of the nation.
Recently the Utah Public Health Association held a conference
in Salt Lake City. This conference was addressed by Mr.
Philip P. Jacobs, publicity director of the National Tuberculosis
Association, of New York City. Mr. Jacobs attracted a good deal
of attention throughout the state in his public health address which
bore the very catchy title of "Postponing One's Funeral." Mr.
Jacobs stated that the longevity of the race had been increased
about 15 years during the last 40 years, or since health education
had been emphasized. Recently, Dr. Mayo, the famed physician
of Rochester, Minnesota, stated that the longevity of the race had
been increased 12 years in a very recent period of time. Mr, Wallace,
as executive secretary of the Utah Public Health Association,
reported that, while deaths from tuberculosis had always been
rather low in Utah, still we are not controlling the situation as
well as some other states.
In 1922 Utah had 184 deaths from tuberculosis, which suggests,
according to medical computation, that there are probably
about 1,666 persons in the state of Utah suffering from this
disease. Until a very recent time, there was no opportunity
for isolating these patients. At the present time the Salt Lake
county hospital has from 25 to 28 beds designed to care for
tubercular patients. Money is needed to purchase adequate bedding
for the beds, and for this purpose half of the proceeds accruing
from the sale of Christmas Seals in Salt Lake county will be
used.
Martha Ann Smith Harris
The daughter of the great martyred patriarch has gone to her
reward. With her departure to that better land, the last link in
the chain has been broken. Never again can we say, as we have
said during her life and the life of her beloved brother, President
Joseph Fielding Smith, "We still have a son and a daughter of
Hyrum Smith among us."
Her life's course suggests at once the terrible scene of the
martyrdom at Carthage jail, the drivings from Nauvoo, the hard
and perilous journey across the plains to this desert land, and the
struggle for existence after the arrival.
Happily for us and happily for future generations, the sons
and daughters of the great patriarch, Hyrum Smith, have given
to the world a very large and honorable family of children and
grandchildren, so that while we are no longer privileged to have
among us the sons and daughters of one of the first founders of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we still have with
us many of their descendants.