[Vol10 | December 1923 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: My Impressions at the Sacred Grove and Hill Cumorah Joseph F]
THE
Relief Society Magazine
Vol. X.
DECEMBER,
1923
No.
12.
My Impressions at the Sacred Grove
and the HiH Cumorah
By Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, of the Council of Twelve
On the twenty-first day of September, 1923, the "First gen-
eral conference of the Eastern
States
mission'' convened
at the
Joseph Smith Farm, near Palmyra, New York.
Seven sessions
of the conference were held and one missionary meeting at the
conclusion.
Th conference closed Sunday evening, September 23.
It was my privilege to attend
all of these sessions, some of
which were held
at the Joseph Smith Farm, some on
the
Hill
Cumorah, and one in the sacred Grove, where the Vision was re-
ceived by Joseph Smith in the spring of 1820.
All the mission-
aries and many of the Saints of the Eastern States mission were in
attendance, so also were representatives from Utah and the West.
President Heber
J.
Grant,
President Rudger Clawson, and two
members of the Council of Apostles were also present.
President
Brigham H. Roberts, of the Eastern States mission, had prepared
an elaborate program, worked out in many details to cover topics
dealing with the important events which had taken place at these
historic places, anciently and in our own dispensation.
This pro-
gram, although departed from as occasion required, was carried
through in a manner most impressive.
Those who spoke and those
who read entered
into the
spirit of
the occasion with
zeal and
knowledge.
Each topic was handled in a masterful manner, leav-
ing impressions upon the assembled multitude that sank deep and
touched their souls. Many strangers from the country round about
were
present
at
the
several
meetings.
Some
entered
into
the
spirit of the meetings and were deeply moved by the sincerity and
earnestness of the worshipers who had gathered at these shrines,
as they were pleased to term them. None were observed who came
to mock
; if any came with such a spirit, most likely they remained
to pray.

586
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The missionaries of the Eastern
States mission came from
their respective
fields, from the borders of Canada on the north,
Virginia
on
the
south,
and
Ohio on
the
west,
each
carrying
a pennant with the name "Cumorah" written on
it. They travelled
most of the way on
foot, performing missionary labor as they
journeyed, and advertising with their flying pennants the object
of their pilgrimage.
As
I stood upon these sacred places
I had peculiar feelings
which I cannot describe.
I always do have such feelings ; I have
visited the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove on other occasions.
As
I stood at the Smith home,
I thought of the early struggles
of the
family, and wondered what means the Lord might have
used to get them to move from Vermont or New Hampshire,
if
they had not been forced from those
states by poverty.
Their
poverty was not the result of indolence, as the wicked have pro-
claimed, but the poverty and reverses of Providence, sent to give
experience and to lead the family to a better land where the Lord
could perform his work through the youthful Seer, yet to be raised
up.
When the Smith family arrived in Palmyra they immediately
bargained
for the purchase of one hundred acres of land.
This
is known today as the Joseph Smith Farm, and is in the possession
of the Church.
In that day the land was covered with a heavy
growth of timber.
This had to be removed before the land could
be planted and crops raised to pay for the farm.
As I stood upon
this ground,
I thought of the struggles this entailed.
My grand-
father, Hyrum Smith, and
his older brother, Alvin, were
called
upon to do much of
this laborious
task.
The younger brother,
Joseph, was too young at that time to give much help, being only
about ten years of age.
Nevertheless he was called to assist, and a
few years later—at the time of the vision—was undr the necessity
of performing labor required of a man.
The house which stands upon the farm, was built by these sons of Joseph Smith, Senior
;
but it is not the house, as many have been told, in which the Angel
Moroni appeared to Joseph Smith. The older house has long
since disappeared, and stood several rods to the north of the
present home. After the proclamation of the angel's visft persecution
raged, and the family were not permitted long to enjoy the
land which had cost them so much to prepare, because of others,
who, through wickedness, for a season reaped the fruits thereof.
As I stood upon the summit of the Hill Cumorah, in the midst
of a vast multitude, only a few of whom belonged to the Church,
I tried to picture the scenes of former days. Here were assembled
vast armies filled with bitterness and bent on destruction. I
thought of the great promises the Lord had made through his
prophets concerning those who should possess this choice land,
and how those promises were not fulfilled because the people
violated his commandments. Here a people perished because of their extreme wickedness. There must be something in the destiny
of things that would cause a repetition of this terrible scene
on the same spot, many centuries later. I reflected, and wondered
if this unhappy time would ever come when another still mightier
people would incur the wrath of God because of wickedness, and
likewise perish. If so, would this same spot witness their destruction?
I thought of the prophets, Ether, Mormon, Moroni, and
tried to realize the sadness of their feelings as they witnessed the
mad onrushing of their peoples to annihilation. We sang the
song, prepared for this celebration, Zion-land, and I entered
heartily, sincerely, into the spirit of the song
:
"God bless our Zion-land,
Firm may she ever stand,
Through storm and night
;
When the wild tempests rave,
Ruler of wind and wave,
Do Thou Thy Zion save
By thy great might!
"For her our prayers shall rise
To God above the skies,
With Him we stand;
Thou who art ever nigh,
Guarding with watchful eye,
To Thee aloud we cry,
God save Thy land."
Here it was that Moroni, commanded by the Lord, hid up the
sacred records of his people. Here it was, fourteen hundred years
later, that he, then a resurrected being, came to Joseph Smith and
committed these same records to the young man's care. At the
time of the Prophet's first visit to the hill, it was covered with
trees ; today it is stripped and bare, save for the grass which grows
abundantly. This former scene of strife and bloodshed, where two
nations perished, later the sacred repository of ancient records,
today is the abode of peaceful cattle, reclining and chewing the
cud. The many millions of inhabitants of the land, who, because
they love darkness rather than light, will not believe, although
an angel has declared it unto them, appear to have no more thought
concerning the wonderful events that have taken place near and
on the Hill Cumorah, than have these cattle.
The meetings held upon the hill were very impressive. Themes
and episodes were discussed and read relating to these great events Sunday morning, September 23, a most solemn and impressive
meeting was held in the Sacred Grove. Only members of
the Church were present. The sacrament was administered
by two young elders, Jesse C. McEwan and Vernon D. Law.
The Spirit of the Lord was manifest and felt by the entire assembly
who sat in serious reflection thinking of the wonderful
scene enacted over one hundred years before in this grove, and
the great and marvelous work, the outcome of that vision. The
following fitting description of the first temples was read by
President Brigham H. Roberts
:
"The groves were God's first temples, ere man learned
To hew the shaft, and lay the architrave,
And spread the roof above them—«re he framed
The lofty vault together and rolled back!
The sound of anthems; in the darkling wood,
Amidst the cool and silence, he knelt down
And offered to the Mightiest, solemn thanks
And supplication.''
—
William Cullen Bryant.
And now came one to this grove, as to a solemn temple,
To submit his mind and his will to God
—
Man's highest act of worship—self-surrender. —Brigham H. Roberts.
President Roberts then offered the invocation which was full
of feeling and devotion. He expressed our gratitude to our
heavenly Father for the revelation of the Father and the Son,
which knowledge has given the world new light, and the perfect
assurance of salvation to all who will believe. Inspirational remarks
were made by President Heber J. Grant and other brethren
and the gathering adjourned, feeling that the Lord had been with
them through his Spirit on this solemn occasion.
The following morning a meeting was called where all the
missionaries received appointments to fields of labor, and they
then departed on their several journeys feeling amply paid and
greatly blessed in the things they had seen and heard. Thus came
to a close this series of inspirational meetings, held one hundred
years from the coming of the angel sent to proclaim the gospel that
it might be declared to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and
people before the end of unrighteousness should come.
of former days. Testimonies were given and evidence presented
that found lodgment in the hearts of those assembled, and many
who came in wonderment and curiosity returned with serious
reflections.
