Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family And certainly, at this critical point in their lives, parents should be willing to take whatever time is necessary, and give up any other activity, to spend the necessary time to counsel with and advise their children. Young people need to plan for the future. In this they need a guiding hand, but the parents must not be too busy or too disinterested to do this. How may we improve the situation in our own homes? How may parents win the confidence of their children? How may we develop juvenile decency instead of juvenile delinquency? A Family Council Meeting Each family might well hold, occasionally, a family council meeting. This could be held in connection with the Family Home Evening, and we do strongly recommend that every Latter-day Saint family have a Family Home Evening every week. Periodically, as part of that Family Home Evening, there could very well be held a family council, called and conducted by the parents and attended by all members of the family. Properly held, it can strengthen family ties, assure the children that they really belong, and convince them that their parents are interested in their welfare as well as in their problems. It can help to protect children against temptation. It can inspire parents to set the necessary examples of righteous living for their children. In such a meeting, parents can win the cooperation of children in attaining the objectives of good family living, inviting them to help plan for it, and making them feel a part both of the plan and of its operation. Children will respond if parents will take the initiative in righteous leadership. - Again, in interviewing a great many young people, I have been amazed at the number who have told me that the principal disappointment they have with their parents is that the parents fail to provide leadership in the home and fail to make decisions. Righteous Decisions The parents ought to make righteous decisions. They ought not to be dictatorial in any sense, because that drives the children away. But, if parents will listen to their children and listen to the facts, and then go to Almighty God and pray for guidance, they will get the inspiration to which every Latter-day Saint. Is entitled. You have the gift of the Holy Ghost. It has been conferred upon you by the laying on of the hands. As Paul said to Timothy, "Stir up the gift of God that is in thee." And if we will but stir up this gift of God that is in us, and listen to our children so that they will feel that they are a part of making the decisions, and then, if through prayer and inspiration of the Spirit, we render the proper decisions and provide the spiritual building and character building leadership, by all means we will save our children, and they will love it. They desire leadership on the part of the parents and they desire righteous decisions, but they also desire to be counseled with. We cannot rule them out of the counseling, we must not be dictators in our homes. We are the children of God; we should have harmony and love and under- standing, and we should have communication between parents and children, so that we may all sit down and talk together and reach a common understanding, a common decision, and then the children will support the decision. But this must be done in a family council meeting; we cannot do this just over the breakfast table. Often some of the family may not be present for breakfast, or even for dinner. We must choose a time when all can attend. A few years ago in the Church we conducted a program called "Keep Faith With the Family." We prepared some material which was distributed throughout the Church in connection with this program. I would like to read to you some of the subjects which we recommend for these family council meetings. Mutual Respect One was to teach mutual respect for each other as family members. Next, eliminate selfishness; treat each other as real brothers and _ sisters; live the Golden Rule. This matter of eliminating selfishness is one of the most important of all things we can do. The worst enemy, the very worst enemy, of the human race is selfishness. The worst enemy of every home and every family is selfishness. You study every quarrel that you've had in your family and see if it doesn't rest on selfishness on somebody's part. One of the most important things we must learn to do is to apply the commandments of God in the home: "All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." The Lord told us that 728 we were to love him with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. He said that was the first commandment, but the second was like unto it. And I suppose my interpretation is that "like unto it" means of like importance. We cannot love God with all our hearts if we do not fulfill the second great commandment, and the second is like unto it, '"Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself."" My closest neighbor is my wife; my next closest neighbors are my children. I must love them at least as well as I love myself. I should love them more, infinitely more. I should be willing to go far beyond any personal desires for myself for the good of my family. And we can never say that we love God if we have not love for our brothers and sisters and our fathers and mothers with whom we live. Love in the Home The love of God is vital. Remember that he said, "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you.... By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another." And love must include family love. It must be the love we have in our homes, resulting from proper Latter-day Saint living. To continue with this list the next would be to teach family worship. At home we should have family prayer and blessings on the food. We should live the Word of Wisdom, be willing as a family to pay our tithing and fast offerings, and we should fast together. We should promote brotherly and sisterly kindness, honesty, patience, and understanding. And as a Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family family we should plan to meet together in our meetinghouses; go to our sacrament meetings and our Sunday Schools together as families. Let it be a family project. We should promote in the mind of each boy the ideal of going on a mission at the proper age. Your young men ought to go on missions just aS our young men should. This matter of sending missionaries to all the world is not an American project. It is a project of the Lord Jesus Christ, whose Church is world-wide! In our family evenings and family council meetings we should promote in the mind of each boy the ideal of going on a mission. Many families assist in this thinking by setting up a mission savings plan wherein both the parents and the boy save a little each week or month toward that goal. It forms a constant reminder throughout childhood to live to be worthy to go on a mission. Temple Marriage Then we should teach the importance of temple marriage. You can begin this as a family tradition while children are yet young. It may be a guide and protection to them during the teenage period. Teaching them to be worthy of entering the house of the Lord. Should be one of the major projects of every family. Parents should constantly be mindful of temple marriage. You sisters must be; some of you cannot obtain temple marriages at the moment. You may be married to nonmembers of the Church or to husbands who are not interested. We say to you, be faithful and patient and God will provide a way. But to those of you who can become eligible to go to the temple, do so by all means. Make yourself worthy to ask for a temple recommend. You, yourselves, constantly teach temple marriage in your home and to your children, and set the example yourselves. I was so impressed at one time in visiting a family in a city where I was for a stake conference. I was there for an extra day because I had some business to perform. So I had family prayer several times with this family in whose home I was staying. On Friday night one of the little girls in the home was called upon to offer the prayer. I think she was about ten or twelve years of age. I was startled at the end of the prayer, and it was a lovely prayer, to hear her say, "Father, help me and my sisters to be married in the temple." And the next morning another family prayer was held, and this time another daughter this time about sixteen was voice. And at the close of her prayer, she asked, "Father, help me and my sisters that we might be married in the temple." And that evening the third daughter, eighteen, prayed and concluded, "Father, help me and my sisters that we might be married in thy temple." The next morning it was the mother's turn. As she led us in prayer, she said, among other things, "Father, bless our daughters that each one of them may be married in the temple." This was a theme of family prayer each time. And those of you who have been to the temple know that it is the gateway to exaltation. Sometime, every faithful person will be given the opportunity of temple marriage. Church Activity The importance of the entire family attending ward and stake and mission and branch events is all important. Families should go to Church together; they should worship together; as they should play together and work together to build up family unity. A child sent to Church by parents who remain at home can hardly be expected to maintain his interest. Most children want to do what their parents do, at least during the formative years. If parents go off on a holiday on the Sabbath, the children will probably wish to go along. On the other hand, if the parents go to Church, it is not difficult to bring the children along. When Church activity becomes a part of the family routine, when it is customary and the expected thing to do, most young children fall into this custom easily and without resistance. Soon it becomes a habit for them. When the home becomes an integral part of the Church and the Church becomes an integral part of the home, the two work together with team-like precision. The objectives of both are accomplished. Both parents and children are converted to the gospel principles. Mutual confidence and respect are established and the family is preserved, not only for this life, but for eternity as well. Achieving Family Standards and Ideals It is suggested that in these family council meetings that we review still some other things. If you happen to own an automobile and you have children in your 730 family who want to do the driving, come to an understanding about a definite set of rules pertaining to use of the car. Set up definite understandings. Let the children help you to make the decisions as to what time they come in at night when they go out for an evening. Chaperonage is absolutely essential if they are away from home over night or on certain types of dates. Let no Latter-day Saint young persons, boys or girls, go off together without proper chaperonage on a vacation. I know that it is a common thing in Europe these days, but let no Latter-day Saint participate in it. Obtain a willingness on the part of the children to discuss with the parents the type of companionship they choose. Urge them to introduce their friends to the parents so that the parents will know what kind of companions their children have. Build respect towards parents, school teachers, police, and all other types of authority. Reach an understanding about the proper choice of good 'reading, avoiding bad books and other publications. Provide in the home a proper type of reading material and avoid evil, disgusting television programs. Reach an understanding as to what types of amusement places must be visited, as to when to start dating, and with whom. Discuss with them the problems of dating too early and the terrible mistake of early teen marriage. Talk about maintaining decency at all times, avoiding petting and similar evils. Modesty in Dress Chastity in Conduct Another point is that of proper Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family and modest dress. Is there any reason why Latter-day Saints, nearly three million strong, have to go around like sheep, following the disgusting fashions of the world? Why should Latter-day Saint women and girls expose themselves by immodest dress, either in short skirts or tight blouses or however else you want to mention it. I tell you, ladies, you are not made lovely by short skirts; when you stoop over or when you sit down, especially, are you not made lovely by short skirts. It is a very serious matter. Many a boy who has lost his virtue has confessed to me that short skirts and other exposures gave him the temptation that started him on his way down. No woman certainly no Latter-day Saint woman has the right to tempt any young man. You don't have the right; and if you tempt others by exposing yourself, God will hold you to account for it. Now Latter-day Saint women are supposed to be modest. We send our women and our men through the temple so that they will learn to wear modest clothing, and you all know what I am talking about. We ask you to be modest, so that you preserve chastity. Remember that when you lose your chastity you lose just about everything. One of the great covenants that we as Latter-day Saints make is that we covenant with the Almighty himself that we will be virtuous and chaste. We are told in no uncertain terms in The Book of Mormon that sex sin is next to murder in the category of crime. These are things that we need to talk about in our homes with our children, and we _ strongly recommend that as Latter-day Saints we keep faith with our families and preserve the ideals and the standards and the faith that the Lord has given us through the restoration of the gospel in these last days. Building the Kingdom We are expected to build the kingdom. I don't know how much you are frightened by this situation in Egypt at the present time. It scares me. Read the 38th and 39th chapters in Ezekiel. The final great war will break out in the Near East. That is where the great fight is going. To be, and that is where God will come when the armies of the world are assembled. He will pour out such destruction upon them from heaven that it will take seven months just to bury the dead. ~ I don't expect that this particular crisis will lead to that; there's too much else to be done. I merely call your attention to the fact that we are living in the last days, and that this is one of the signs of the times. We, the Latter-day Saints, are to prepare for the Second Coming of Christ, and we cannot prepare for the sanctification that will be required in tight blouses and short skirts. Now can we? And neither can we in quarreling in the home. Neither can we in in-. Dulging in irreligious practices. We must decide to be the covenant people of God and keep our covenants, which means that we shall have to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. And that we may do this, I humbly pray. 731 732 a eg one