Janet W. Breeze Chapter 2 Synopsis: Nancy Jackson, a_ ballet dance instructor and mother of two children, is opening a new studio in her remodeled home, when her husband, Grant, tells her that he wants to accept a teaching assignment on the island of Saipan. Nancy hadn't realized that getting ready to go 7,000 miles from home would be such a production. When world travelers had their pictures on the newspaper society page, they always looked so happy! And calm. But Nancy wasn't calm. She had tried coordinating lists of things to do, but even being organized wouldn't make _ the phone stop ringing. Most of the calls were from loving friends who excitedly wanted to hear "all about it.'"' And Nancy had finally sold herself on the idea so completely that she eagerly answered every enthusiastic inquiry. Some of the telephone calls, however, dampened Nancy's enthusiasm. Like the friend who told her she was an unfit mother for taking her children away and exposing them to malaria and the responsibility of having them killed in a typhoon. And then there was the woman who said, "You can see the whole island in a week and then what will you do?" Nancy tried not to let people upset her but they did. The only things that kept her from really doubting her convictions were the other phone calls: so-and-so's aunt, who had a cousin on Guam, who loved it absolutely loved it! These were the well-wishers Nancy enjoyed talking to, in spite of the packing still undone. There was another well-wisher Nancy consulted frequently. She now had two. Letters from Sister Mortensen the first one, which Grant had insisted she read again, and the second a long one which she had received as an answer to her own inquiry. Whenever she began to feel herself filling with doubt, she would read and reread the two letters and the "'Acceptance" from "Hicott." "High Commissioner of the Trust Territory! Now there's an impressive title,' Nancy said to her mother. Grace Hauser didn't care much for this big new decision of Nancy's and Grant's, but she hadn't told them so. In fact, when Nancy had first told her mother about the application Grant wanted to file, all Grace had said was, "Why ask me what you should do? You've already made up your mind." Nancy knew her mother was dreading the separation, but she agreed that the most important thing was for Nancy to support Grant as breadwinner for the family. Now the vague possibility of their going off to find their "island paradise" was becoming a reality. "Read the cable again," Grace said. "Oh, Mother! Now you're getting as bad as I am! I'll bet you've read it five times already in the last week." Grace began picking up Nancy's living room bric-a-brac and wrapping each piece in tissue paper. "T'll put these in the closet of your old room," she said, "and then they'll be sure not to get broken. No one ever gets into that closet any more. Now what about these scrapbooks?" Throw Down the Gauntlet ""Well I guess I'd better store my Treasures of Truth books and our wedding album but I'll take the baby books. Grant said I could take them all, they mean so much to me." Nancy had a faraway look on her face as she ran her hand lovingly across the raised viny] of the yellowed books. "TI mean if there should be a typhoon or something." "Come on, now, Nancy!"' Grace said, cheerfully. "Let's not think of this exciting new adventure in terms of disaster!"' Nancy picked up the books and clutched them in her arms. "Oh, Mother, if only I were sure it's the right thing. We've prayed about it. And when I read the letters from Sister Mortensen and when I talk to Grant TI really feel as if it's the greatest opportunity in the world. And I have such a good feeling about it. But." "But what?" Grace folded the lid flaps on the box she was packing and took the books from Nancy. ""'Well like one lady. Mother, I didn't even know who she was. She came up to me in the grocery store when I had Amy and Skipper with me. And she shook her finger at me and said, 'You have a lot of nerve taking those poor little babies clear out of civilization.' "' Grace laughed. "Really, Nancy. How can you let a thing like that get you down? She doesn't even know where you're going." "I know. But then there was this man in the doctor's office. We were sitting there waiting to get our typhoid shots, and the re- ceptionist said, 'Oh, Mrs. Jackson! How do you feel about going to Saipan?' I replied that we were really quite excited about it when this man across the room growled at me. 'I wouldn't be excited! I have been there!' " "Well, he was obviously there during the war, Nancy. I'm sure things are much, much different now." Grace sat down on the couch and slipped her shoes off. ''When we did see the doctor," Nancy went on, "he did his level best to talk me out of going. He said I wouldn't like having a baby on Saipan, and that I should stay here until it comes!" Grace reached up and took Nancy's hand. "Oh, my, what a mood you're in," she said. "Time to throw down the gauntlet!" '""What's that mean?" "Tt's an old knighthood expression," Grace said. "A knight used to take off one of his gloves and throw it down in the face of his opponent to defy him or challenge him. When I was a young girl and thought the worst was about to happen, your grandfather would always tell me to 'throw down the gauntlet!' Now it's your turn, Nancy. You Grant and _ the children are facing a_ strange new kind of life. You're bound to meet adversity. But defy it. Challenge it! Never let discouragement or bitterness reign as victors in your life. Nancy, you've seen people who grovel in their misery and drag everyone around them down. And then you've seen others like your bishop's wife who bounce back and never admit that life has been anything but rich and happy." supposed to 770 She gave Nancy's hand a gentle squeeze. "Now, what kind of wife and mother is my girl going to be?" Nancy smiled. "Armored all the way, I guess." "That's what I like to hear! Now, tell me. What did Sally and Tom decide about the dance studio?" "Tom thinks it's a great idea! But you know Sally. Coming to substitute for me while I had the baby was one thing, but taking it over on a full-time scale well, you know your baby daughter. It sounds too confining! But they'll probably give up their apartment and do it anyway." Girace laughed. "Be patient with her, Nancy. She'll grow up." Then Grace looked around at the clutter of packing. "Couldn't you put some of this off a little?" she asked. "'At least until you know when you're going?" "Oh, Mother, I'd rather get it over with now and not have to worry about it. Besides, the cable accepting Grant said a letter would follow. And a large brown envelope came in this morning's mail. So that's probably the travel authorization." "You mean you didn't open it?" '"'Well, I'm sure that's what it is so why should I spoil Grant's fun? Besides, wasn't it you who taught me not to open other people's mail?" "But this concerns both of you, Nancy." "Oh, Grant'll be home pretty soon. Come upstairs now and help me sort out my linens, will you? I'll store the tablecloths that Grandma gave me, but some of the others I'll have to take. Sister Mortensen wrote that Saipan social life consists almost exclusively of reciprocal dinners for anywhere from eight to sixteen people. Can you imagine it? I've never had twelve people to dinner at one time yet and now it looks as if I may find myself four short in the china department. Oh, well, you read her letter. I just can't picture myself in the social whirl she describes. I've never dreamed of getting involved in anything like it. She said they reminded her of the amateur shows we went to when we were kids. I'm not so sure that will be my favorite sport!" They both laughed, with the anticipation of an exciting adventure. Heirloom linens were sorted into one pile to be stored. Best linens were sorted into a second pile to go in the surface shipment, and still a third pile of sheets and pillowcases was set aside to go air freight. "Actually, I have five divisions," Nancy said, "'air surface storage give-away and throw-away. I lie awake half of every night sorting things into piles in my head." Grace looked at Nancy seriously. "As much as I dread your leaving, I will be glad when you are on your way for your sake." "Come on downstairs," Nancy said, '""'and we can see what the big brown envelope has to say! Grant is home." Nancy stopped short when she saw the look on Grant's face. ""What's the matter?" He held out the envelope from Trust Territory Headquarters. "You didn't open this?" "And then seal it again? Of course not!" Throw Down the Gauntlet "Here. Read the second paragraph of this letter," he said. It is urgent that we have additional qualified teaching personnel in Truk District. Although you asked specifically for a position on Saipan, you were aware that applications were being considered for the entire Trust Territory; and we assume you will concur in being sent to Truk for your first contract. "T don't understand," Nancy said. "It's very simple. We're not going to Saipan." "But, Grant! The packing's half done. I TI've given so many things away! Grant we've made such a big thing about telling everyone we were going to Saipan. And after all the parties. Now what do we say?" Grace picked up the brown envelope and began thumbing through the papers. "What is all this?" she asked Grant. "Travel authorization that means the Government has already contacted the mover and the airline for us; medical forms; allegiance forms; more information on things to bring." "And everything gives the location as Truk?" Grace asked. "Well, I won't go!" Nancy gestured. "If there's only one family of Latter-day Saints at headquarters what do you _ think there would be on Truk or whatever it is? We just can't go! They can't make us do that. Not after all our plans." "They also sent the contract,"' Grant said, his voice dropping to a hush, as if he himself didn't even want to hear the words he was saying. 'They would like it signed and back by return mail." (To be continued) 771 FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department,