SOCIAL RELATIONS A Light Unto the World Lesson 4 What Will They Remember? Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes her responsibility to represent the standards of the Church in all aspects of personal deportment. INTRODUCTION Two questions are correlated and discussed in this lesson, (1) Can the Latter-day Saint woman retain her religious identity and still be an active participant in social or civic groups whose membership are of different faiths? (2) How does being attractively dressed relate to the standard of modesty? These questions are of interest and special importance to the Latter-day Saint woman in today's world. Whether she lives in a small community or in a metropolis, she may encounter activities and clothing styles which are not in harmony with standards which she has set for herself or which have been established by the Church. How she reacts to these situations may depend upon her sensitivity to the standards of good taste and her courage in holding fast to her personal religious convictions. (To class leaders: It will be well for class leaders to discuss both questions, developing more fully those areas of greater interest and application to their particular Relief Society group.) PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY Each individual woman represents someone other than herself. She represents her family, her friends, her community, her Church, her nation, and, were it possible for a woman to have no living relative and no pointable affiliation, she is still a child of God and therefore represents humanity. Because she does not stand alone, and, therefore, is not a law unto herself, her actions reflect favorably or unfavorably upon those whom she represents. Intelligent representation of any group can come only if the members are familiar with the objectives and standards of that group. The Latter-day Saint woman who, through enthusiastic choice or by persuasion, affiliates with a non-Church group, needs to become familiar with the purposes and standards of that group. She also will need to review in her mind what the standards of the Church are on particular issues, if she is to represent the Church fairly, thus retaining her Church identity. She may wish to ask herself, ""What does the Church teach?" In the Articles of Faith we read, 'We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all 39 men... CJ Question Would these qualities constitute a good standard for judging a woman's personal performance? Discuss. Following are some organized groups having different specific objectives and which may have varying standards of personal conduct. 1. The strictly social group (objective being to enjoy leisure-time activities). 2. The culture club (objective being to enlarge one's appreciation for the cultural arts). 3. The civic organization (objective being to study or promote community programs and projects). 4. The scholastic club (objective being to study education problems and to promote programs for school betterment). 5. The political organization (objective being to inform or motivate interest in local or national political issues and voting procedures). This list is only suggestive of innumerable group affiliations. Others may be suggested. Our concern in this lesson is whether or not a Latter-day Saint woman can enjoy membership and participation in a non-religious organization and neither compromise her standards nor unfavorably represent the Church. For discussion of this important question we turn to some individuals who have and are thus affiliating. Consider their comments, in response to specific questions put to them: Question: Mrs. B., you are active in community affairs and interested in civic legislation. How do you feel about your affiliation? Mrs. B.: Community activities need interested and dependable men and women. I enjoy my civic affiliations 790 and am delighted when individuals not of our faith ask about the Church. I am proud to tell them what we believe. Question: Has the Word of Wisdom created any problem for you, in mingling with non-Church individuals? Mrs. B.: Never. Perhaps it is my home training, plus the fact that I have lived in different cities where there were very few members of the Church. I do not feel that I am being courageous. Believing firmly in the right of individual choice, I find it very easy to say, 'No, thank you, I don't smoke," or "No, thanks, I don't drink." It's as simple as that. Question: Mrs. E., you are affiliating with non-Church cultural groups. What has been your experience? - Mrs. E.: For me it has been more difficult, especially was it so at first. It has required courage. Perhaps this is because I had not established in my own mind the importance of certain Church standards. I had to find out what the Church recommends. The fact, however, that I am known to be a Latter-day Saint woman and thus represent the Church, has kept me from compromising some standards of conduct that I might otherwise have done. Question: Mrs. H., how do you feel about this? Mrs. H.: In the cultural and social non-Church groups with which I am associated, I have found that people of high quality accept you for what you are and represent, rather than whether or not you are going to conform to their beliefs. But, they expect you to be what you profess to be. I find that consistent living of one's own beliefs, not forcing them on others, makes for congenial and satisfying relationships. I have never needed to relinquish my beliefs or lower my standards. Question: Mrs. C., you are an active member of a small creative writing group. Its members represent several different religions. What is your experience? Mrs. C.: This affiliation is one of the rewarding associations of my life. Each of us respects the religious beliefs of all others. Our common bond is that of creatively interpreting life as we see it. I have found in these women of other faiths great integrity and, often, a compassion for others which has been an inspiration to me. I hope that my own feeling of moral responsibility and religious insight - are of like benefit to them. REMEMBERED BEHAVIOR The woman who thinks that infraction or compromise of a standard has only immediate effect, is not being realistic. She is not acknowledging the influence of memory. Very often the memory influence is more significant than the immediate reaction. Note the following comments, representing both favorable and unfavorable memories. Class Involvement Comment #1. It was once my professional assignment to hire mature females for our business. We found so much dependability and a strict adherence to the standards of morality in the Latter-day Saint women whom we had employed, that membership in their Church, alone, became almost an automatic recommendation for other Latter-day Saint women seeking employment with us. Comment #2. Years ago when we were summer touring, we became involved in a rather serious automobile accident. I shall never forget the kindness of a Mormon woman and her family to us. If her home is representative of her Church, it truly has much to recommend it. Comment #3. It had been my impression for years that the Latter-day Saints conformed to a certain code of behavior. I was so disappointed when a Latter-day Saint woman behaved contrary to her professed beliefs. It has lessened my esteem for her and I am wondering about the efficacy of the teachings of her Church. Question Do you believe this statement, "'NeiLesson Department ther the individual nor the Church can benefit when one of its members violates a behavior standard of the hurch"? Why? A Class Involvement In light of the foregoing individual comments, discuss the following questions: 1. How best may a Latter-day Saint woman project the ideals and standards of the Church into a nonChurch group' without = giving offense? 2. In what ways does it reflect upon the Church when a Latter-day Saint woman compromises a Church standard before a non-Church group? 3. Is greater harm done if the violation occurs before a non-Church group than before a group of her Church friends? If so, why? 4. What motives are most apt to cause a Latter-day Saint woman to apologize or to make even slightly unfavorable statements about the Church before a group of nonLatter-day Saints? 5. Need a Latter-day Saint woman ever be embarrassed to uphold Latter-day Saint standards before the world? 6. Is a Latter-day Saint woman apt to regain the esteem of a nonChurch group if once she has violated Church standards, even though she ceases a continuance of that violation? THE GOOD EXAMPLE OF THOSE WHO LEAD The examples of outstanding Latter-day Saint women who hold positions of honor and responsibility in organizations of nonChurch membership and who at all times honor and uphold Church standards, are respected and influential among women of other religious faiths. GUIDANCE IN DRESS The clothing one wears may and frequently does influence one's social behavior. It is, therefore, relevant 'tnat feminine clothing be considered in this lesson which deals with personal standards. We read with curious interest of the apparel, ornament, and devices employed by women throughout the ages in an attempt to enhance their physical appearance. Fashions in female dress have varied from age to age, culture to culture, country to country as they do even today. The prophet Isaiah spoke in denunciation of excess in female ornamentation, referring specifically to the tinkling ornaments, chains, bracelets, mufflers, ornaments of the legs, headbands, earrings, nose jewels, changeable suits of apparel, wimples, hoods and the vails, and crisping pins. (Isaiah 3:13- 23.) Latter-day prophets and Church leaders likewise have given counsel to Latter-day Saint women as to their wearing apparel. They stress the importance of modesty in dress as a virtue related to chastity. Elder Mark E. Petersen speaks of the responsibility of mothers in guiding their daughters toward standards of dress which are in keeping with the teachings of the Church. (See The , , pp. 7-11.) The booklet ''For the Strength of Youth' (published by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City, Utah, Second Edition 1966) lays down guidelines. Questicns Discuss briefly: 1. Do you think mothers need this counsel as well as the daughters? 2. Do you think the statement that 792 mothers often encourage their daughters to wear strapless party gowns is true? FADS VERSUS CONSERVATISM The woman of today may find herself in a net of feminine allurements unless she is wise. Women's clothes, extremely styled and unbelievably costly are displayed in shop windows. Exotic and beautiful color combinations, attractive trim, and unusual design are praised in the daily papers. Too often a woman does not resist buying clothing which is too costly for the family budget and wholly unsuited to either her age or her figure. Instead of enhancing, such clothes may detract materially from her personality. Fashions in women's clothes vary from one extreme to another, but there are fundamental rules of proportion and design which are basic to good taste. The Latter-day Saint woman knows that good taste, modesty, and conservatism go hand in hand and that extreme fashions violate the basic rules of modesty and good taste. Class Involvement What, in your opinion, constitutes an attractively dressed, well-groomed, woman? WHAT WILL THEY REMEMBER? A number of women, interviewed for this lesson, were asked what they remembered most about their mother's grooming. Some of their answers follow. Discuss as time will permit. 1. I remember my mother's beautiful hair, always neatly and attractively dressed, even before breakfast. 2. My mother emphasized cleanliness more than any personal appearance quality. Whether in house dress or Sunday dress, she always looked immaculately clean. 3. My mother emphasized economy in clothing. An expert seamstress, she was proud of clothing her six children attractively on a fraction of what the purchased articles would have cost. 4. I remember my mother's shiny shoes. We were rather poor when I was young, but my mother insisted on neatness. 'Most everyone," she said, "can keep his shoes neat and clean." 5. My mother always looked very feminine. "Femininity," she said, "Gs the birthright of a woman. Don't sell it for a mess of potage." CONCLUSION Latter-day Saint women have a dual responsibility, through their living, to project the truth and soundness of gospel teachings Lesson Department to others. They owe this standard of performance to themselves and to the Church. This responsibility embraces more than what they say, or even what they do as a social action. It embraces, also, their standard of dress. The intelligent and wise Latter-day Saint woman will consider modesty, appropriateness, and conservatism as essential to good taste in dress, essential to being a womanly woman. FOR HOME-DOING Check your non-Church affiliations to see if you are being fair to yourself and to the Church. If not, grasp every opportunity to do so. Help your children and your friends by your example to see that modesty is a factor in a standard of good taste in dress. Ask yourself, what will my children likely remember about me?