Church Support of Education John A, Widtsoe. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is essentially an educational organization. Its mission is to know the gospel, and to teach it to all the world, since all correct knowledge may find its place in the gospel system. There can be no domain of truth which may not be explored or taught by the members of the Church. Moreover, the gospel, which comprehends all truth and all time, can best be known and taught by those whose minds have been developed, within or without schools. The Church has always been committed to education, and has been and is friendly to all honest institutions of learning. The great love of the "Mormon" people for education is nowhere better shown than in the record attendance of students of the Utah Agricultural College and the University of Utah, in both of which institutions "Mormon" students overwhelmingly predominate. Both of these schools have the largest attendance in their respective classes, when compared with other states and with the population of our own state. It is only natural that a Church so thoroughly committed to education should have established, and does now maintain, schools, that are wholly under its control. The work of the Church is extensive and varied; the special training for many forms of Church service can be secured only in schools under Church control. Then, it is a vital need in a church with the mission of the "Mormon" Church to maintain in many places and of easy access, institutions where the characteristic spirit of the Church lives and shines brightly and may be absorbed by. The young. Moreover, there are thousands of Latter-day Saints to whom the gospel is the dearest thing on earth, and for which they have made tremendous sacrifices. Such parents want to instil into the minds and souls of their children the full meaning of the gospel, and they desire therefore to send them to a Church school. Finally, the present educational custom of our land is to ignore religion. This is perhaps the chief weakness of the system of American education. The time, perhaps, should never come when religion is taught in our public institutions supported by public funds, but the public schools must come to a time when they will recognize the need for religious training and allow credit for such work done, and provide time periods during which stu- CHURCH SUPPORT OF EDUCATION 509 dents may go out to places provided by the churches, to secure religious instruction. When state schools become more liberal in this respect, there will be less need of private, church-maintained schools. 'Today, however, it would be a calamity to eliminate our Church schools. Meanwhile, excellent instructions are offered in many Church schools. Those who, for one or another reason, feel impelled to support the Church schools will find available almost everything that the student may desire. There is no competition between Church and state schools. Tt is a well known maxim in education that the more provisions which are made for education, the more young people become in-- terested in schools, Latter- -day Saints should encourage their children to secure the best education of the day; for our people, in knowledge and understanding, must be as a light upon a hill— and when schools are considered, our excellent Church schools should be given full consideration.