The Mothers and the Church Schools Zina Young Card. Wonderful indeed is the influence of the Church schools upon the lives and characters of the children of our people. We find, as a self-evident fact, that next to the home life, the schools our children attend, have the greatest influence in the formation of their characters for the battles of life. The greatest and most important point stands out boldly, and is pre-eminently the converting of our children to the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. From visits recently paid by me to the leading Church schools, I find they are the peers of other schools, in the teaching of hygiene, ethics, meciuanical arts, domestic science, and domestic arts. A few of our advanced schools, have business departments that vie successfully with other business schools that specialize in that alone. From actual contact and intimate knowledge, the fact stands out in bold relief, that a more competent, intelligent and conscientious class of men and women can not be found in the halls of learning than those who grace the schools of our Church. This widespread diffusion of knowledge upon these vital subjects, has borne fruit, by preparing the minds of the rising generation, for great responsibilities of active service and cheerful sacrifice. Those who are called upon to fill responsible places in our wonderful organizations if they have been trained in Church schools will be well prepared. Dear| mothers, do you realize what the Church schools mean to you and your children. If you don't, go and visit them, and see for yourself, study the spiritual side of their education which is the science of living, the true and better life. Go with your girls into the gymnasiums and view with delight the won-. Derful systematic training given for the development of their beautiful bodies, that they might be qualified for their future missions as wives and mothers, with intelligent minds and strong bodies, for hygiene, properly applied, will give them this knowledge.: As mothers we know we cannot give what we haven't got, but the crowning source of instruction is the religious training given to the youthful and plastic minds of our precious children, THE MOTHERS AND THE CHURCH SCHOOLS 513 the powers to see and understand the principles of life and sal- ' \ t vation.. | Do you know why the Church schools were established? The system was revealed to the prophet Brigham Young, and by him established for the salvation of the children of the Latter-day Saints. The mission of conducting these schools was given by Brigham Young into the hands of the divinely inspired Brother Karl G. Maeser and Pres. Abraham O, Smoot; and their perpetuity has been largely due to great teachers who have followed. A B. Y. U. Family of Educated ~ and Educators Education is a passion, one might say, with Latter-day Saints. It is a part of their religious creed that "no man can be saved in ignorance." As a consequence every Church organization carries on educational extension work and the Church schools are filled to overflowing with eager students. Perhaps one of the most interesting recent examples of this love for education, which exists among us, was demonstrated in the recent graduation of Elijah Allen from the law school of the University of Utah. It is not unusual for students to graduate from the law school; but it is very unusual for a man fortythree years old, with a wife and nine children, to come from Mesa, Arizona, to Salt Lake City, three years alone, leaving his highly capable wife at home to run the farm and the family while he studied law, then the fourth year bringing the wife and nine children and the two autotmobiles up to Salt Lake City, buying a home so as to save rent, putting all the nine children in school to continue their school, which was variously begun at Mesa and Phoenix, his wife taking the law lectures with her 'husband so that she might be companionable with him in his future activities. They had every one of the children in school at the University of Utah and the L. D. S. University, except the baby who was watched over by a kind old lady next door, at so much per. That is unusual, isn't it? But that is exactly what happened to Elijah Allen and his remarkable family. Of course Elijah Allen is himself remarkable, not only for his foresight but thrift, for he had presence of mind enough to sell part of his big cotton farm at the peak of high prices 514 which gave the family plenty of capital for the enterprise. Remarkable also because he has kept his mental powers bright through the exigencies of domestic and pioneer life, by study and itinerant politics and legal activity in the district in which he lived; so that when he decided to secure a Jaw degree with the accompanying classified information adding this to his mental equipment, he lost no time, no energy, and no money in carrying out his plans. All of it was in the nature of a noble investment in community finance and social futures. Even so, Elijah Allen remembered after he was there that he would have been only half what he is, and done only half what he has accomplished, were it not for the more than remarkable wife who has not only made a thorough Latterday Saint wife, mother and companion, to him and the children, but has as well kept her own mental tools sharpened through activity in the various auxiliary organizations for women of the Church, from the time she was a little girl to the present day. Both parents are human dynamos; but both engines are so nicely adjusted that there is little noise and almost no friction' in the generation of force and power. Modesty is perhaps as dominant a characteristic of both these good parents as the simple dignity with which they conduct their family and religious life. Elijah Allen is the son of Charles H. And Adelaide Hoops Allen, and he was born at Cove, Cache county, Utah, on the 22nd, Jan. 1878. He went with his parents to pioneer the Arizona country, settling in Mesa about 1882, where he lived until 1898. In that year he came to the Brigham Young Academy, as it was then called, graduating from the business college in 1901. When in school he met and fell in love with Miss Emma Pearl Nielson, who was the daughter of Eurihoff G. And Emma Meecham Nielson, who was attending the Brigham Young University at the same time. Pearl lived in the family of Jacob F.