Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock. (Continued..) After eating a hasty lunch he fell to reading the Book of Mormon. His interest grew apace, and reached its height when he read the 28th chapter of II Nephi, where it told among other things, of the 'churches which are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other, Behold I, I am the Lord's; and the others shall say, I, I am the Lord's. And thus shall every one say that hath built up churches, and not unto the Lord. And they shall contend one with another; and their priests shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance." Surely this prophecy had come to pass! All his young life he had witnessed religious and doctrinal contention, especially in his own family. Well might the Prophet Joseph Smith have asked "which ane is right?" Turning the page, he commenced the 29th chapter: "But behold there shall be many at that day, when I shall proceed to do a marvelous work among them. * * * * "And because my words shall hiss forth, many of the Gentiles shall say, A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bibles." i Walter leaned back in his chair, amazed. He felt cold chills racing up his spine; it brought him to his feet. To think that a prophecy had been fulfilled in his own home that very day by the woman coming to the door with her "Golden Bible" tale! Was it possible that Joseph Smith, an uneducated young man, could have forseen anything like this without divine inspiration? Eagerly he read the remainder of the chapter. "Tt is enough!" he spoke aloud; "from now on T am a 'Mormon,' " the walls echoing his defiant tone. While he was penning a letter to Elder Lafayette, applying for baptism, he was interrupted by Edith coming to the door, explaining that she was on her way home from Thanksgiving services at the church. "Why weren't you out this morning?" she asked, as she seated herself. Lal 18 "Oh, I got interested in a book and stayed with it," he replied in a noncommital tone. "Reading the Bible, eh?" she proclaimed, picking up the sacred book. Turning a few leaves, she came across a pressed flower that brought a heightened color to her face—"the pink of a winter's sunrise," Walter thought. "You remember them?" he questioned eagerly. "Yes; they are the sweet peas I gave you last Easter," she replied gently, averting her face and spying, unfortunately, the Book of Mormon. "Walter, are you still reading that trashy 'Mormon' stuff?" she asked petulantly. "Yes, Edith; and I am writing this letter applying for baptism." "Walter, do you value my friendship?" she asked tremulously. "More than that of anyone else in the world," he whispered. "Then turn aside from this 'Mormonism,' " she pleaded. "No, Edith; I cannot," he replied positively. "It has become a part of very life—if not life itself." "Then—I bid you good-bye—forever!" "Oh, no, Edith don't say that!" he begged, clasping her hand in sudden anguish; but to no avail, for she quickly passed out the door—away from the well-springs of affection bursting forth from the ardent depths of his being—leaving as his only comfort the thought that he who loved friends more than Christ was not worthy. Of him. Throughout the winter Walter continued to study and think upon the beautiful truths of the gospel. He would have been willing to cut the. Ice in the Hudson in order to go down into the cleansing waters. But Elder Wood, who was very cautious, felt that there was no reason why he shouldn't wait until spring. So Walter had to be content with talking about the gospel and distributing literature at every opportunity. He learned that one John Perkins, could quote Bible "by the yard; so one evening he presented himself at said Perkins' front door and inquired whether the gentleman would be willing to discuss religion. The host, a six-foot, raw-boned Yankee, was willing, so for several hours they had a lively time. Walter "was glad to learn that Perkins believed in baptism by immersion, and also that he lived the law of tithing, giving one-tenth of his earnings to the church. Perkins was compelled to admit, however, that the minister got most of the money paid into his Church, while in Walter's case, any tithing that he might pay would be used in building meetinghouses and temples, and for the benefit of OUT OF THE WORLD 519 the poor; no one receiving a cent for preaching the gospel. Walter also uncovered an earnest investigator in the person of a Mr. Milan, who was particularly impressed with the sturdy, clean, and manly build of the missionaries. A passage of scripture which appealed forcibly to this man was Rev. 14:6-7: "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, kindred, and tongue, and people. "Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come; and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." "You see, Mr. Milan," quoth Walter, "if the gospel was already here, why should it be necessary for an angel to fly through the midst of heaven with it? Why should it be necessary for him to cry with a loud voice to 'worship him that made heaven and earth' if the people were already worshiping that Being?" "You're right!" agreed Milan. "The 'Mormon' Church sure has a hefty claim when it says that an angel came to Joseph Smith." The most interesting experience that Walter had along gospel lines occurred one Sunday afternoon while visiting people named Taylor. Mrs. Taylor was a devout Catholic, but Mr Taylor did not believe in any particular church. Walter managed to engage him in a doctrinal discussion, she interrupting when he broached the subject of baptism to her husband. "There's no use talking, Mr Nelson," she said; "children are born in sin—the devil is born right in them! I've got three, and every one of them was brought to the Priest and christened within two weeks from the time they were born. I would hate awfully to have one of my kids die without christening—it could not be saved." "Ves, I noticed last fall when I was up in the Catholic cemetery a lot of little gravestones off to one side and I was told that that was the burying spot for children who had not been chrisened before they died,' commented Walter. "But, you know," he continued earnestly, "in the Bible they never speak of baptizing little children; instead Christ took them up in his arms and blest them. Baptism is for the washing away of sins and one must repent before being baptized. Little children can't repent, and I do not believe they are born in sin. Either. I once did, but I don't any more. You wouldn't punish your baby, and I don't think God would, either; suppose you did neglect to bring it to the priest and the baby died—don't you 520 think the sin ought to be on your shoulders instead of the baby's?" "I never thought of that before," she answered slowly. "You know," she explained, "our priest studies the Bible and is up on these things, and we Catholics leave these mysteries to him. We are told not to talk over religion with people of other churches and if he knew that I was talking with you, he would call me out from the altar! My sister had that happen to her once, because she talked with the Methodist minister, and I wouldn't have it happen to me for anything in the world." Notwithstanding, Walter read her passage after passage from the scriptures going to show that adults were the only proper subjects for baptism, but to no avail. True, he weakened her blind faith somewhat, but he seemed to be unable to clinch his arguments. She finally went about preparing dinner, while he drew from his pocket the Book of Mormon, perplexed at his inability to make a positive impression upon the mind of his hostess. Often, as a boy, he would haphazardly open his Bible and read the' first page which met his eyes. With that thought in mind, he opened to nearly the last page of the Book of Mormon and began to read the eighth chapter of Moroni: * * * "Tisten to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance: the whole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore little children are whole, for they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them; and the law of circumcision is done away in me. "And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye shall baptize little children. * * *, "For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he hath no baptism." Walter was inspired with the message of the prophet. He was about to call Mrs. Taylor's attention to the chapter, but hesitated with the thought that if she wouldn't accept the Bible, she cerainly wouldn't the Book of Mormon. However, he decided to risk it, and, in response to his request, she listened attentively while he read. "What do you think of it now?" he asked eagerly as he finished reading.; "T must say that I never heard anything so plain before in OUT OF THE WORLD 521 all my life," she admitted frankly, the ice of her creed-bound heart melting at last. "Still," she continued reflectively, "I've been taught for so many years to believe in christening that I don't know how I could change now. Oh, dear! Here comes my sister. She is a Catholic, too—for mercy's sake, don't say anything about my talking with you or she'll tell the priest!" Mrs. Taylor was plainly agitated and Walter readily promised to keep quiet. However, no sooner was the newcomer introduced than she bristled: "You're that 'Mormon,' ain't you?" "Yes, ma'am; but perhaps I'd better say that I hope soon to become a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," he answered serenely. "Tt's blasphemy for you to use that name for your Church. When you don't believe in him," she observed bitterly. "Why, I certainly do believe in him, and always have believed!" protested Walter indignantly. "That may all be; but mv mother told me, years ago, that 'Mormons' were little better than the heathens. I imagine von don't know must about it yourself. I heard that you were an Episcopal until you got to runnin' about with those book agents," she sneered. Walter saw that she was blindly preiudiced against the "Mormons," and wisely refrained from replying further to her contemptuous remarks. The next evening, two missionaries were to come in on the train. And Walter walked the mile to the station to meet them. The train soon rolled in. The wheels clankine snapvilv on the -ice-bound rails. And the engine hissing clouds of steam over the bleak countryside about the station. Walter recognized immediately Elder Wood. But his companion, Elder Lester, he had never met before. The latter was of the same ruddv. Sturdy tvpe that Walter had learned to look for in a "Mormon" elder. Thev took the stage to Walter's home, and his mother welcomed the visitors cordially, particularly Elder Wood, as he was much older than the average missionary. Walter was glad to see her sit and listen, while the Elder told of the West. His mother would seldom listen to him, as she always believed it proper that children take instructions from their parents upon matters religious. She could not but notice. However. The change that had come over Walter since he first: met the "Mormon" elders. He had given un smolkine: said he desnised liquor: and she cold not cet him to drink a cup of coffee for breakfast anv more He ha? 522 also taken to asking grace at the table, which pleased her; but a feeling akin to jealousy would sometimes arise at the thought that it was the "Mormons" who had inspired her boy rather than her own teachings. One evening, Elder Lester inquired where Walter had been brought up. Walter told him. "Green Island?" ejaculated the elder. "Why I passed through there one time—over a year ago. I remember talking with the ferryman before I crossed the river to Troy." It was Walter's turn to be surprised. "What!" he exclaimed; "are you the elder that told the captain about God, and about pre-existence, so that he got into trouble with his own church people? Oh, I can see it all now!" he cried delightedly. "Well do I remember the night I visited his house boat and he told me of the young man who preached to him. Funny I hadn't thought of it before," he went on reflectively; "but I never dreamed that a 'Mormon' missionary could have talked with him." "T intended to stop by that way again and see him," explained Elder Lester, "but I was transferred soon after. I was so interested in preaching to the old fellow that I forgot to leave my card or even a tract." The elder chuckled as Walter told him how the members of the Captain's church had cast him from their midst; and of the time the Captain indulged in his argument with the Episcopal minister. "Tt looks as if you were sure meant to be a 'Mormon,' Brother Nelson." observed Elder Lester. "You really heard the gospel before you met us, but, of course, vou didn't realize it. Vd sure like to talk with the captain again; I liked him." "Tell you what we'll do, Elder Lester: let's go down there some day next spring. It's only fiftv miles and we can go on the train in a couvle of hours. I'd like to visit mv folks again. Anyway. As I haven't been back since I left home, although IJ hardly know how they'll treat me when they find out I am a 'Mormon.' " _ Saturdav evening Walter procured a cutter and drove the elders over the mountain to Glenns Falls. The scenerv was wild and beautiful alone the route. The snow. Like mvriads of diamonds, reflected the bright moonlight. Once in a while sluggish, white cloud would rise in the steely blue and partly cover the clear. Perfect winter's moon. Throwing a stealthy shadow over the road and the brilliant londscane. The trees were bare. Excent fr= a few faintly rustline dead leaves on the oaks. While here and there a somber, dark-rohed pine stood. Like a sentinel watching OUT OF THE WORLD. 523 over the sleeping valley below. Often could be heard the faint roar of the Hudson as the waters plunged over a rapid. At times, utter silence brooded over the mountains, even the sleigh bells neglecting to tingle when the horses slowed to a walk, as if to allow the travelers to fully appreciate the sublime stillness. Then again, when the bays broke into a trot, away they would fly, as on wings, with Walter instinctively shouting the good old New England song, "Jingle Bells!' Glens Falls was reached at length, and all were delighted to see the elders and Walter at the Guiles home, where a long evening was spent in telling gospel experiences. The next morning, Walter resolved to call on: his Uncle John's family, so he hitched the team to the cutter and drove to Sandy Hill. As usual, his uncle was compelled to work Sundays, but his aunt and the girls were delighted to see him. Walter invited them out for a ride, but only Elizabeth would accept. As they were sleighing merrily along, her demeanor suddenly became serious, and she asked: 'Walter, have you ever read much of anything more about the 'Mormons'?" He almost stopped the team by the involuntary tug he gave on the reins, so great was his surprise at her question. "Why I thought you never wanted me to Se to the magain," he finally blurted out. "Yes, but I have a confession to make. You-know that night we came from Guiles, and J threw those tracts away? Well, I got to thinking and worrying as I lay in bed, and I hardly slept a wink all that night. I left the house earlier than usual the next morning with the idea of finding the tracts on my way to work. Lucky for me, I remembered that it was just as we were leaving Brooks' station that I threw them away; so when I got there, sure enough there they were scattered alongside the track. "T started to read the 'Plan of Salvation, during my noon hour, and nearly finished it then. I read 'Joseph. Smith's Own Story, 'A Friendly Discussion, and last the 'Voice of Warning.' Oh, Walter, that 'Voice of Warning, is a wonderful, book!" she went on impulsively. "I sometimes feel that there is something to this 'Mormonism," after all. I wish you would tell me more about them: I've hated to ask you before," she requested, somewhat shamefacedly. "Blizabeth, you don't know how glad I am to hear you talk that wav. I. Too, have some news for you; I expect to he baptized into the 'Mormon' Church just as soon as spring comes!" "Good! I'm glad!" she exclaimed delightedly. "Still. Wal 524 ter," she questioned seriously, "are you sure it is the right Church?" "Yes, Elizabeth, I have a testimony of 'Mormonism.'" He then went on to tell her his story—how he had studied the tracts, and the consequences that followed at the office; his experience with the Baptist minister; of Edith; and of Thanksgiving Day when he became fully convinced. "Now, as to the morals of the 'Mormons,'"' he declared reflectively, 'the 'Mormons' believe in a single standard of virtue; that is, they believe the man should keep himself just as spotless as the woman he asks to marry him. You know yourself that you never saw two cleaner looking men in your life than those two elders we met!" "Yes, they certainly were," she answered; "and J have longed to see Elder Maxwell and talk religion with him again, but I have felt too ashamed to go back there after the way I did with those tracts. And besides," she shuddered slightly, "I'm afraid they would want to call at the house, and that would only cause trouble. What you say is certainly interesting, Walter. Have you any literature with you that I haven't read?" she asked. "No, I haven't; but I know where we can get some. What do you say to coming up to Sunday-school with me this afternoon, and we can get some tracts from the missionaries? A can make it in time if we go right now.' "Oh, I wouldn't know what excuse to give mama. She would be terribly angry if I told her I was going to such a meeting." Walter rode with a dejected countenance for a few minutes. "T have it!" he exclaimed suddenly, as they neared the Nelson home, "let's drive right on past the house and say nothing. The Guiles' will give us a bite to eat to make up for the loss of our dinner," he urged. "I'm with you, Walter," she decided, after a moment's reflection. "Let's go." he cried, the bays bounding forward with the sharp crack of the whip. (To be Continued)