DRESS REFORM We are happy to call attention to the timely. And excellent announcement from Superintendent Adam S. Bennion, in regard to the dress rules of the school girls in the Church schools. These rules are issued not in the spirit of restraint for the girl so much, as in the spirit of protection to herself and her brother in the matter of chastity and right behavior. If there are any mothers who have not yet explained to their daughters the vital reason why girls should not expose their bodies, as is done today on the streets and in our ball rooms, it is high time that they begin an exhaustive set of private lectures and explanations to the girls on the difference between the temptation of a girl and the temptation of a boy in sex matters, The home is the place where these instructions should begin, and mothers should certainly be familiar with the laws of nature; above everything the instructions should be given with a delicate appreciation of the laws of modesty, and of the necessity for approaching sex subject entirely from a scientific view. The instructions given herein applies equally to school dresses and to party dresses. Let mothers see that the girls are willing to adopt them. Superintendent Bennion's statement follows: DRESS RULES ANNOUNCED. "In these days of economic and social unrest, America may properly look to her schools as a sobering and stabilizing agency, All too frequently fashions of the ballroom and the vaudeville EDITORIAL 541 stage are carried over into our institutions of learning so as to interfere with scholastic ideals for which our schools should stand, as well as to impose a burden upon the parents who are called upon to finance their children in getting an education. "Party dresses with their accompaniment of extreme hairdress, rouge, lipstick, etc., ought certainly to be wholly out of place in a high school where students, simply attired, ought in modesty to give themselves to that study which will develop most fully the talents that are theirs. "Tn an effort to establish in our schools standards of simplicity, economy, and good sense, the Church schools, beginning in September, 1921, will ask all girls attending to observe the following regulations: "Extremely thin material such as chiffon and georgette crepe will be barred, as will open loose sweaters, lace stockings and hosettes. The schools do not deem it advisable to specify a regulation uniform, but will approve dresses and suits made modestly and simply. In doubtful cases the school matron will be the judge of the suitability of the costume in question. "Because of the expense involved, the schools discourage the wearing by girls of silk stockings. The recommendation applies to the boys with equal force in the matter of silk shirts and silk socks." "As a safeguard to health and normal development, the schools advise girls to wear walking shoes, either high or low, rather than French heeled shoes and slippers." "This announcement is not made," Supt. Bennion said, "in any sense of an effort to curb individuality. In fact we really object to the idea of a school uniform. We do not in the least wish to prescribe what the students shall do in the matter but rather we want to establish a condition in regard to dress so that everybody will be on an equal footing in regard to dress and feel comfortable in regard to style. If there is anything arbitrary in the matter we are merely substituting for the arbitrariness of fashion, the arbitrariness of correct school costume. "While full appreciation is expressed of the charming beauty of a woman's hair, especially as typified in the school girl's waving locks, the present vogue of much marceled, little combed, little cared for hair on a growing miss is much lamented, aside from the fact of the needless expense of maintaining such styles of head dress. While no drastic note of dictation is taken by the school heads, it is believed that simpler, more healthful modes of headdress will by no means debar any girl of her full right to all the girlish beauty nature has given her. It is believed the entire matter will meet with the hearty appreciation not only of the girls themselves but also of their parents.