the General Board, of whom she is a representative, is honored in this recognition. All in all, it was a glorious occasion, as we learn from letters received from Sister Cannon and Elder Duncan McAllister. We rejoice and give thanks with our beloved Hawaiian Saints who deserve this gracious privilege;  we congratulate those who have been instrumental in bringing this event to pass;  especially do we remember with deepest gratitude and loving loyalty President Joseph F. Smith, who revealed and DEDICATION OF HAWAIIAN TEMPLE 81 organized the conception of the plan, practically bringing it to completion before his death a year ago. His closest friend, Bishop C. W. Nibley, was as vitally concerned in this whole matter and to them both, the Saints owe a profound debt of gratitude. Great credit is due President Samuel E. Woolley, who has successfully carried out the plans, and financed the whole scheme through donations and appropriations in the Islands themselves. And most especially do we add our loving greetings to President E. Wesley Smith, who represented his hero-father both in the services and in the carrying out now of the work there and then begun. We give President Heber J. Grant's dedicatory prayer in it's entirety. It is one of the most simple prayers ever uttered on such an occasion, humble, succinct, clear, and magnetically appealing. It touches every interest in the Church, and does not forget the Nation's stress, nor the serious plight of the President of the United States. It is a masterpiece of simple diction, wide vision, and touching appeal. Indeed, it is inspired and beautiful in its completeness of detail. The addresses delivered by President Anthon H. Lund, Elder Samuel E. Woolley, President Rugder Clawson. Bishop Chas. W. Nibley, Elder Stephen L. Richards. President E. Wesley Smith, Elder Arthur'inter. and Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, closing with a loyal and loving talk by President Grant himself were all moving and inspiring. It may interest our read