[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Oh Lad O'Mine Annie Wells Cannon]

Oh Lad O' Mine Affectionately inscribed to the war mothers of Utah. Annie Wells Cannon. I. You answered the call, Oh. Lad o' Mine, The call to do or to die;  You followed the flag, Oh, Lad o' Mine, With never a question why. n. The flag you loved. Oh, Lad o' Mine, Meant more than life to you;  And you held it high. Oh, Lad o' Mine, With its stars in the field of blue. You followed it far, Oh, Lad o' Mine, And bravely you saw it through With never a stain, Oh, Lad o' Mine, The glorious red, white and blue. IV. On land or on sea, Oh, Lad o' Mine, A song in the heart of you And a prayer at home, Oh, Lad o' Mine, To keep you brave and true. V. Through strife and struggle. Oh, Lad o' Mine, You held your courage high. Nor faltered once, Oh, Lad o' Mine, E'en when death was nigh. 
 VI. The heart beats lighter, Oh, Lad o' Mine, For the valor you have shown;  The stars shine brighter. Oh, Lad o' Mine, For the victory you have won. VIL The victory gained. Oh, Lad o' Mine, Lies not on battle field, But in your soul, Oh, Lad o' Mine, Lies safe the victors' shield. VIIL For a conquered world, Oh, Lad o' Mine, Long and loud the sirens ring;  For a conquered self, Oh, Lad o' Mine, The spheres glad anthems sing. THE MORMON BATTALION MONUMENT. The Legislature of 1917, appropriated $100,000 for the erection of a monument, provided the people of the state would raise a similar amount. The commission is fortunate in its chairman, Hon. B. H. Roberts, whose kindling power for any cause is well known in this region. Under his able leadership, assisted by the indefatigable efforts of May Belle T. Davis, an appeal is just now before the people to contribute the money needed to secure the contribution and build a monument. No one who is familiar with the courage, hardihood and suffering, of the Battalion boys, could withhold desire to support this movement which would perpetuate their memory and memorialize the record of their achievements. No matter what opinion some may hold concerning the choice of such a monument, all will unite in answering the call made upon them by their leaders and by the state. We commend the project to all who are now enjoying the benefits derived from the labors of the Pioneers and the Battalion boys.