The Adventures of Mr. Fly By Ann M. Bennion The first place I remember in my life, was a nice, dirty pig pen. I must have been very tiny because there were millions of us in one little space. Oh! Ho! It was a fine place. Just billions of big, fat germs, just what us flies like to live on. One day I decided to venture out into the world, so I left the rest of the family, and gathering a lot of germs on my legs, I started out. I soon came to a house where there were several children playing. Of course I wanted to be generous with them sc I unloaded my germ-laden legs on them and flew on into' the house. There, in the first room, lay a little girl tossing with fever. I heard someone say, it's typhoid. I could see several other flies playing around her so I went over, and there were all kinds of fine, fat typhoid germs, so I loaded my legs with them and flew into the next room where a baby was playing on the floor. I deposited some of my germs on him, then again I flew cutside but just as I flew out there was a strong breeze struck me and blew me a long distance. By the time I was able to land I was very hungry. I searched all around but was unable to find one thing to eat. I looked around and everything seemed so strange. There were very few flies. 1 just thought to myself, "This is a poor place for Mr. Fly to live." I decided I'd go in the house but as I hit what I thought was the doorway I almost broke my neck for there was a screen stretched. I crept around and around for almost two hours trying te find a place to get in. I thought, "Well, Mr. Fly, you are doomed to die from hunger." But all at once the screen opened and let me tell you I lost no time in flying through the door. Prospects seemed much worse inside for everything was so clean I could THE ADVENTURE OF MR. FLY 137 find nothing at all to drink or eat. Soon I heard a girl say, I am going to put out some formaldahyde for these flies. Of course I thought she was just feeling sorry for us. So I sat down on the table and waited. Soon she came with a saucer and placed it right by me. I went up and drank from the dish. Oh! It was good and even sugar init. But just at this stage, oh, dear me, my head, my stomach, oh, all over I was so sick. So I decided to lie down until I felt better. I saw my few comrades lying about me. Some were moaning, some were groaning, but oh, something was happening. Now we were all being gathered together into a dish pan. I turned over and could see we were going toward a big flame of fire. I knew this was my last chance, so I picked up all the strength I could muster up and flew across the room to the door. I stayed there until the fresh air had revived me. I felt I must have something to eat or I should surely perish. Just then someone brought out some nice roast beef. I thought I'd be very careful how I ate of it, but it was not necessary to prepare at all, for just as I went to light I heard someone say, "Swat that fly." Of course I didn't know what they meant, but I thought it was time for me to go, but just as I turned something came smash down on me breaking my wing and stunning me. I could not say how long I lay there on the floor, but when I came too, I looked up and saw the screen open. I thought right then, "This is no place for me," so I flew out of the door and out to the pig pen. It was also very clean but my attention aes soon drawn to a screen in some little slats inside of which was ies. I thought I should like to go in so I hunted around until I found a little funnel leading into it. But when I got in-there was no way of getting out. I have been and talked to some of the other flies and find out it is a fly trap and here I am doomed to stay until I die. But although this is a tragic death it is better than to live in that spotless, clean house where one's life is always in danger.