This is the Day By Mrs. Ellen L. Jakeman Daughter of Laman, come from the wilderness, Braid your black tresses, and crown your dark brow; This is the day that was promised your fathers;? List to his voice for, God speaks to you now! Come from the forest and come from the mountain,? The sin of revolt,?the dark vale of sadness;? Put on the beautiful garments of virtue, Drink at Faith's fountain with joy and great gladness. Comes His bright spirit, your sad soul alluring,? Lift up your heads ye oppressed and rejoice,? Burns the sweet fire your Red-dross consuming, Fair shall your face be! Oh, lift up your voice! Rich were the promises made to the prophets, When you have turned from sin fully away; All hearts shall join in a paean of gladness,? Return of the Child from the truth gone astray. Golden plates taken from sacred Cumorah, Furnished the key to your fate's tangled skein; Precious the writers,?thrice precious the message You shall wander in darkness,?ah, never again! Earth shall be pure,?gone they that oppressed thee; Anguish and sin passed forever away. Comes from God's presence, Holy Jerusalem! We know not the Hour, but this is the Day. Daughter of Laman, come from the wilderness, Braid your black tresses, and crown your dark brow; Singing hosanna,?an heir and a princess;? Thou art the blossom on Joseph's rich bough. Lehi and Nephi, Mormon,?the prophets, Your fathers, your brethren, exult in His power! Oh, with what joy we will welcome your coming! This the great Day is,?God hasten the Hour! Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology and Testimony (first Week in May) Yu DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES (CONTINUED) OBJECTIVES OF THE DISPENSATION Introduction: An objective means the purpose or aim, and in this lesson it is to mean the purpose or aim which the Lord evidently had in view for the work of this dispensation. The statement of each objective is followed by some scriptural evidence which the student may profitably add to by reading. The comments are not to be taken as doctrine but as material to arouse interest and direct thought. Two Objectives: There are five evident objectives of the dispensation and there may be others. The objectives considered may not be just in the order of their importance or sequence. The arrangement is a study device and seems consistent.
The First Objective: This was the flooding of the world with light and truth. "Truth shall spring out of the earth and righteousness shall look down from heaven." (Psalms 85:11). Thus we have the light of truth coming from above and below, as it was in the days of the deluge when "all the fountains of the great deep" were "broken up and the windows of heaven were opened." (Genesis 7:11). "For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea." (Habakkuk 2:14). "They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountains: for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea." (Isaiah 11:9). The Lord himself, while speaking in Palestine, declared the flooding of the earth with the light of truth. "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations and then shall the end come." (Matt. 24:14). No one will claim that these words of Jesus were fulfilled during the Dispensation of the Meridian of Times. Many nations and millions of people have never yet heard the Gospel and moreover the last clause of the above quotation indicates that the work was to be done in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times.
For the extent and unescapableness of this flood of light and truth we look to modern revelation: "For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. (Doc. And Cov., Section 1:2). No man is the author of the above marvelous utterance; they are the words of the resurrected Redeemer after his reglorification with the Father in the celestial kingdom.
The Second Objective: This second objective was the organizing and the building up of an institution for the spreading and utilizing of the light of truth. It was to be a means for the elevation of man and for the acceleration of man's advancement towards his Maker. It was to be an instrument of education for the living and for the salvation of the dead. That the setting up of this kingdom was one of the objectives of this dispensation is made evident by the following: "But in the last days it shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the tops of the mountains and it shall be exalted above the hills, and people shall flow unto it." (Micah 4:1). This being the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times it would include "the last days." "In the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed." (Daniel 2:44). The declaration of the Lord, through his prophet Daniel, proclaims a kingdom of durability, a promise not made concerning any kingdom in any of the preceding dispensations, and there would be no other place for it than in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. But the most indisputable evidence that the building of a church was one of the divine objectives of the dispensation is found in the word of the Lord himself: "And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this church have I established and called forth out of the wilderness." (Doc. And Cov., 33:5). And that the building up of a church was a part of this great objective we have evidence in the following: "Wherefore, if you shall build up my church, upon the foundation of my gospel and my rock, the gates of hell shall not prevail against you." (Doc. And Cov., 18:5).
The Third Objective: The third evident objective was the production of Christian character. Men and women, youths and maidens, boys and girls of Christian faith with Christian ideals and Christian conduct?making up a Zion community that will fulfil the words of the GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 163
prophet: "And many nations shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths." (Micah 4:2).
There can be no propaganda for or advertisement of any institution like that of its products.
The Fourth Objective: The fourth evident objective was the reaching back with gospel privileges for those who have passed to the great beyond without these blessings?the "salvation for the dead." This objective was declared to the prophet Joseph early in the dispensation. "Behold I will reveal unto you the Priesthood by the hands of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord, and he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers: If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at its coming." (Doc. And Cov., 2: 1, 2, 3). This divine announcement carries with it the promise of authority or power. It was to come by the hand of Elijah a resurrected prophet. His visit should be before the coming of the Lord in judgment. He was to put into the hearts of the children an interest in their parents. They were to learn of the promises made to their ancestors and be inspired to an active interest in their welfare. This perfectly altruistic work for the dead was to be the one thing that would keep the world in a condition that would prevent the necessity for its utter destruction. Through this work the world would preserve a fitness to survive.
The Fifth Objective: The fifth objective of this dispensation was the making of a dispensation which would cover everything except the time, of each and all of the other dispensations, hence the name: The Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. (See Compendium, pages 144, 145, 146).
Questions
1. Name five of the evident objectives of The Dispensation of the Fulness of Times.
2. Tell of the unescapableness of the deluge of truth and light.
3. Give scriptural proof that the building of a church was a divine objective of this dispensation.
4. How is the third objective of this dispensation made evident by the following: "Zion will be built on this continent?" (Articles of Faith, "Zion Is the pure in heart.")


5. Which is the antecedent of the pronoun "its" in the last line of Doc. And Cov. 2:3?
6. When Jesus the Redeemer said: "I am the resurrection and the life," in which did he express the greater interest, the living or the dead?
7. Discuss the following: Without interest in ancestors a people grow unfit to survive.
8. State the fifth evident objective of this dispensation.
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May)
Teachers' Topic for May?The Home
FINANCES OF THE HOME Cooperation in the earning and the spending of money.
1. Economic security is dependent upon two factors: a. The nature and the amount of the income. A family whose income is based upon seasonal occupations must necessarily plan more carefully than one whose income is fixed and regular. When children become earning factors they should be taught to willingly contribute to the family income. b. The manner in which the income is spent. The women of the world have to do with the spending of over 80% of the income of the world. What a great responsibility rests upon women in this respect. There should be careful management of the family income. A budget of income and expenditure should be kept. We should live within our income and avoid debt.
2. Moderation should be exercised in dress, foods, and recreation; false standards should be avoided.
3. The value of allowances as to wife and children; the right of children to spend for themselves part of their earned money; the meaning of the value of the dollar; the importance of proper spending; the benefits of saving; the virtue of thrift, etc., may be properly discussed