GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 753 It is our earnest desire that it shall be built by the many rather than the few. That every person may be given opportunity to contribute to its erection and enjoy the sense of satisfaction and pride that comes from so doing, we believe that every one of our more than 100,000 members will want to make a contribution and thus become in reality a part owner in this Relief Society home and Latter-day Saint women's memorial edifice. We believe that throughout the Church are many men, as well, who will welcome the opportunity to honor a wife or mother by contributing funds, and that many other friends of Relief Society will wish to show their regard for the Society by assisting financially. Through the united support of all, we believe that the necessary finances will be readily and willingly contributed. We realize, however, that to erect the type of building we have in mind is a mammoth undertaking. We know that if we are to realize our ambition the full support of every enrolled member of Relief Society will be necessary. We would like at this time to know your attitude toward the proposed building program. Therefore, just as our sisters of long ago called for a vote on this identical proposition, so today, forty-nine years later, we too are calling for a vote of this great congregation composed of Relief Society women of our day representing most of the stakes and many of the missions of the Church. Your General Board proposes the erection at the earliest possible date of a Relief Society building that shall be monumental and beautiful, to adequately serve the members of the Society not only for today but in the years to come. Will all those in favor of this proposition please show it by the uplifted hand. (The vote was unanimous in the affirmative.) This is a glorious experience, not only to see your uplifted hands but to feel your support. As soon as plans for the building and its financing are perfected and approved they will be released to you. We feel assured of your support. We appreciate your support in all of the work of Relief Society. We are grateful for your righteousness and your spirit of service. We are grateful for the strength of your testimonies. We are grateful for the women of the past, for their vision and understanding of the needs of Latter-day Saint women, and for their great contribution to us and to the future. We are above all things grateful for the gospel. May the Lord bless you and comfort you and may our righteous and worthy ambitions know fulfillment I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. [The address by President George Albert Smith, page 715, was then delivered. ] Success to a Relief Society Building Elder Marvin O. Ash ton First Counselor, Presiding Bishopric SUCCESS to you in this building! May you speedily start, and may you speedily finish it. If we are perfectly honest with your, and sometimes we are, we would say something like this to President Spafford, "Success to you in this building," and, as the host said to those guests he had in the house as he went into the closet to take out their coats, "Here's your hat, but what's your hurry?" Our building over there is crowded. You need a new building and so do we need more elbow room. Success to you! I wish that every building that is financed would be financed as easily as you are going to finance this building; and I hope I have the privilege, and I am sure it won't be denied, to give my pittance in this direction. In closing, inasmuch as President Smith has mentioned the Lamanites, I just want to pay tribute to a Relief Society worker; namely. Sister Flora Hicks, who has had charge, with her husband, of the Lamanites in the Papago Ward, Arizona. She was called down there ten or twelve years ago, and she passed away about eight weeks ago. We had the privilege of standing in that house as those Lamanites came in to pay homage to her. They are supposed to be cold; they are not supposed to be very enthusiastic in their emotions. When those people came in, about three hundred strong, one at a time and in groups, they cried like babies in the loss of that wonderful woman and what she had done for them. And as they put her under the ground, the little Lamanite president of the Relief Society put fifty dollars in the hands of Brother Hicks. They heard that he had had some intention of moving back to Salt Lake City sometime. She said, "Here is fifty dollars, and men have another fifty dollars. That is for a monument to this good woman. You are not going to move her from this sacred soil?" God bless her memory. She gave herself to help other persons raise their standards of life. God bless you. Amen. Relief Society Wheat Project Elder Joseph L. Wirthlin Second Counselor, Presiding Bishopric THERE is no question but what I should like to talk to you for a you sisters have missed a great moment about a project in which many things in not being able to at you are vitally interested, namely, tend the sessions of the general the wheat storage project which conference during the past four originated in the days of President years, but I should like you to know Brigham Young when he counseled that we have missed you very much, the members of the Relief Society and we are happy that you are back, to store wheat against a day of need. If we were to continue attending In that day of long ago, the sisters general conference without our sis of the Relief Society went out into the fields after the brethren had harvested the crops and literally gleaned what was left, and from that day on until 1919, the sisters of the Relief Society had been accumulating wheat which eventually amounted to thousands of bushels. The Federal Government, in 1919, proposed the purchase of this wheat, and it was sold to the Government for the sum of approximately $400,000. With the approval of the First Presidency, the money was placed in trust in the Presiding Bishop's office with the understanding that this money would be invested in such a way as to insure its safety and return some interest. Over the years the interest has been paid to the Relief Societies of the Church, who in turn have used it for maternity and child welfare work. But about four years ago, the First Presidency deemed it advisable to invest the money again in wheat to the end that should there come a day of need, some provision would be made to provide for the members of the Church. Hence, a large elevator was erected on Welfare Square with welfare labor, which holds approximately 250,000 bushels of wheat. A small elevator was purchased at Levan, Utah, and another one at McCammon, Idaho. The recently purchased flour mill at Kaysville has an additional storage capacity of 72,000 bushels. At the present time the Relief Society has stored in the Salt Lake Elevator and the one at Levan approximately 215,000 bushels of wheat which has a value at the present market price of over $200,000, and there is a sizable amount of the original wheat funds that has not yet been invested in wheat.
As we contemplate this achievement by the women of the Church, the effort required, it represents to
all of us a grand and glorious achievement. More than that, it represents the principle of generosity and willingness to provide the staff of life for any members of the Church who might be in need. It is further evidence of the divine power that inspires men and women to do those things which are for the spiritual and temporal benefit of the Church.
AND now as you approach a new project in the way of a building for the women of the Church, there will be no question about your success and the final accomplishment of your objective. No doubt when this building project gets underway, the brethren of the Church will be given the privilege to contribute to the fund that will cover the cost of the building as an expression of appreciation and gratitude for the splendid service rendered by this great organization of women.
My mother was a Relief Society president. I say, "God bless her for her devoted service," for out of the service rendered in this great organization, she set her children an example which instilled in their hearts a love for the gospel of Jesus Christ. When I think of these ministering angels of the Relief Society, the words of the song just rendered express best the spirit in which they labor: "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give unto you, not as the world gives, give I unto you." The spirit of the Master motivates this great organization of our sisters to render a service which causes all of us to say, "God bless them."
May God bless you in all of your endeavors, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent December 1, and December 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" ADVICE TO MOTHERS: Mothers, and those who have the care of young children and infants, should remember to be in school themselves every day of their lives, for even the infant imbibes the spirit of her who attends it day by day and hour by hour; delicacy and refinement should guard every action, for, be assured, the plastic soul will bear the impress given! Language, also, should ever be guarded, that no words or exclamations may fall upon the infant ear, but that which is sweet, harmonious, and loving.... You, young mothers, remember day by day and hour by hour the mighty responsibility that rests upon you.... Devote, at least, the next twenty years to maturing and educating your children; this will be to you the finest school on earth.?Hannah T. King. CHRISTMAS: Christmas approaches, and as the merry season draws near, our thoughts revert to a period... When the Eternal Son of God, the mighty Savior of the world, condescended to become the babe of Bethlehem, and descend below all things, that He might bring about the great scheme of redemption, and open up the way whereby a fallen world could be restored to the presence of the Father... He came unto his own, and his own received him not.... Then, when another Christmas day dawns upon the earth, let us remember the Holy One who has again restored the Gospel to the earth... Let us as Latter-day Saints, seek after the spirit of Him whose birth we celebrate, and strive to do the works that He did.... In this way we shall ourselves receive a blessing, and give to all a happy Christmas.? Phebe C. Young. WINTER: Winter at last is here in pomp and magnificence; it has ushered itself in. The beautiful carpet of grass has been replaced by one of pure white snow.... Who does not love, as in the evening they are seated before a cosy fire, to hear the wild winds of winter first coming like a low, moaning whisper, then louder, shriller, and more fierce.... Again, who does not love to view the trees on a clear frosty morning; they stand forth draped in their pure white robes of snow.... All, all in loveliness.... I thank God that I have been given an appreciative mind to enjoy all this loveliness of nature.?Ida. A CHRISTMAS PRAYER Enlighten, comfort, sanctify my heart, Sweeten my temper and subdue my will. I want to bring my sisters to thy throne, I want to love and honor Christ alone, I want to feel the spirit's inward power. And stand prepared for death's important hour.  I want to do whatever God requires, I want a heart to burn with pure desires. Lead me through life to glorify thy grace, And after death to see Thee face to face. -M. A. Greenhalgh Page 756 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WINNIFRED M. TIBBS, Utah poet, who was ninety years old, October 26, and her sister, Miss Nellie Morris, who was eighty-three in March, were honored at an open house Sunday, October 28, at the home of Mrs. Tibbs' daughter, Mrs. Josephine T. Saville. Nearly three hundred guests called to greet the sisters. THE August number of Theillustrates the headdresses of Navajo girls. Sister Maggie Nielsen of Bluff, Utah, recently made a wedding dress for a Navajo bride, in which the skirt had twenty-two gores, each approximately one yard wide at the bottom. AT atea on November 5, honoring Utah's 8,000 Minute Women, Governor Herbert B. Maw presented each guest with a certificate of merit bearing the State seal. Especially honored were Mrs. John T. Wahlquist, State Chairman, and Mrs. L. A. Stevenson, Salt Lake City Chairman, unusually intelligent and dynamic organizers and leaders. Working on thirty-two salvage and conservation programs, the women have salvaged for example, six and one-half million pounds of tin, seven million pounds of waste paper, and forty-six and one-half million pounds of rags and old clothing. Miss Helen Blakenhorn of the national War Production Board said: Utah has the very best woman's organization for salvage in the United States. Mr. E. C. Seawell, national chairman of fat salvage said, "Utah has done the best salvage job in the United States. There is alive today a vivid imprint of the pioneer. Utah has retained the realities. She has combined qualities visible and invisible to set an example." VARIOUS professions in which Utah women have excelled are: Law?Judge Florence E. Allen, also poet, musician, and instructor in Greek, who has served on the Ohio Supreme Court Bench, and on the Circuit Court for Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee. Engineering: Young Inez Hansen was the third engineer hired at the Geneva Steel plant, and is now working on a great airport being built in San Francisco. Dentistry: Dr. Rose By water Valentine was Utah's first woman dentist, practicing forty-five years ago. She is now president of the Women Dentists Association of the Pacific Coast. Anthropology: Mrs. Huberta Berg Robison, a young Latter-day Saint girl, formerly of California, now of Utah, is employed by the Carnegie Institute, studying Mayan characters and culture, and making expert graphs. Page 757 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 32 DECEMBER 1945 NO. 12 116th Semi-annual Church Conference  COLORFUL and impressive was the scene in Salt Lake City on the morning of October 5, 1945, the opening day of the 116th semi-annual conference of the Church. All roads appeared to lead to Temple Square as thousands of Latter-day Saints, conference bound, hearts rejoicing in the blessing of our Heavenly Father, eagerly anticipated words which would soon come from inspired Church leaders to guide, comfort, and sustain them. Four weary, anxious war years had passed since the general Church membership had met in the great Tabernacle in conference session, years in which souls had been tried and many had been called upon to mourn. The resumption of conference for the general Church membership, made possible through the cessation of hostilities, was indeed a comfort to the souls of Latter-day Saints, and a joy to their hearts. This conference, too, was an eventful occasion for a most important and impressive ceremony, one participated in by the priesthood and general membership but rarely a ceremony referred to in Church history as a Priesthood Solemn Assembly. Page 758 This ceremony is the custom when voting for a new president of the Church for the first time in general conference, and has been the practice of the Church since President John Taylor was sustained in conference general conference. Voting is by quorums, in order, beginning with the First Presidency and continuing down through the Aaronic Priesthood. Voting by the priesthood is followed by that of the remaining Church membership. In voting, the right hand is raised to the square to witness to the Lord that one sustains the officer for whom he is voting. The Solemn Assembly, presided over by President George Albert Smith and directed by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. At the opening session of the conference October 5, voted to sustain President George Albert Smith as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Smith came to this position on May 21, 1945, following the death of President Heber J. Grant. The humility of soul, accompanied by the power that comes with a deep and abiding testimony of the gospel, confirmed in the minds of the thousands who heard the voice of President Smith as he addressed the Church membership following the voting, the belief that they had indeed sustained one who was a prophet, seer, and revelator divinely appointed and endowed with divine authority to lead the Church in this great and perilous day. The Church membership also EDITORIAL 759 sustained President George F. Richards as president of the Council of the Twelve, and Elder Matthew Cowley as a new member of the Council of the Twelve. Strong and effective, and a terse reminder to the saints of the covenants they had made that day in voting were the words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. When he said: Today I have given witness to President Smith, to you and to the Lord that I will sustain him as prophet, seer and revelator and president of the Church. Each of us has made a life covenant. God gives to each of us the strength and the power to be loyal; to give up fault finding; to follow the command of the Lord; to follow those whom we have ourselves sustained. Without leadership the Church cannot grow. Throughout all of the sessions of the conference, speakers paid high tribute to President Smith. With unusual clarity and conviction they bore testimony, expounded the doctrines and interpreted the principles of the gospel, and bade Church members to keep the commandments of the Lord. Pronounced emphasis was given the missionary program of the Church and the intention to expand it in the immediate future?to call many men and women into missionary service, was made clear. The music of the conference seemed unusually beautiful. Relief Society was proud that a combined chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers from the stakes of the Salt Lake Region provided the music for the first two sessions. The desires of the thousands of Latter-day Saints who had so eagerly awaited this conference for the guidance and spiritual succor it might bring them were fully realized. This 116th semi-annual conference will go down in Church history as a great and blessed occasion. BSS. CHRISTMAS WISH Helen Kimball Orgill I wish I had dwelt in Bethlehem in that long ago, To greet those lonely strangers, with weary feet and slow. I wish I had been near Mary, her every wish to attend, To comfort and to love her, when needing most a friend. But these are vain desires, and never meant for me? Around are other pilgrims on life's upsurging sea. His heart is yearning over them?I hear again his plea: Ye do it to the least ones, ye do it unto me! Christmas in the Bible WHAT shall we do on Christmas Eve? What shall we do when the fire blazes high upon the hearth and candles flame in the window? Beyond that window, in the darkness, stars line the black arch of night. Perhaps, far away or near at hand, in the hills, modern shepherds watch their flocks by night. And here we are at home on Christmas Eve thinking about these things. There is no better way to enjoy this evening than to spend it reading the story of Christmas as it is written in the beautiful words of the Bible. Let these words be read aloud and pondered again, for there is need of their serenity and comfort?a great need for their steadfast message of hope: Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, Saying, where is he that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him (Matthew 2:1-2). These are the words of St. Matthew, telling the wonderful story of the first Christmas. And the wise men, near the end of their journey, when they had conferred with Herod in Jerusalem, "departed: and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was." The story continues, and we can almost see the starlight upon the hill road to Bethlehem, the tall camels silhouetted against the night, the city walls lighted with splendor. It is Luke who gives the exquisite description of the shepherds: And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night (Luke 2:8). Above the desert and the Dead Sea, above the desolate wilderness, safe in the coves of the hills, these shepherds watched their flocks, careful that no lamb wandered into the ravines, careful that no ewe escaped from the walls of the fold. Peaceful were the shepherds and the sheep upon the dark hills. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them. Fear not: for, behold, I bring you tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord (Luke 2:9-11). A message for all the world. Christmas as the Bible tells the story! There is no substitute for these words. Nothing can take their place. Before the waning of this Christmas Eve, read this message of the four gospels. The Christmas spirit will come to you across the gulf of time, across the interval of centuries, and there will be no boundaries of time or space. Christmas will be yours! V. P. C. And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER VII SYNOPSIS Delsa Marriott, trying to find a way to lessen the stigma when her friends will learn that she has been jilted by Hugh Temple, finds that Alec Windsor, a marine on furlough in the town, is attracted to her. She believes that she can make the people in the town think that she has been the one to break off her engagement with Hugh if she pretends to be in love with Alec, Jeff Holden, father of two motherless children, tells Delsa that he loves her, but Delsa thinks that Jeff is merely lonely for his dead wife. ON Saturday morning Delsa rose early to help her mother do the weekly wash. Sometimes, as this morning, she wished she could lie in bed, warm and safe and far from all the troubles and duties of the world about her. But the wash must be done, and her mother, strong and well as she was, could not be expected to do it alone while Delsa loafed in bed. At least, Delsa couldn't expect her mother to work while she rested, so she tossed off the covers, dressed quickly in a faded blue gingham, and went downstairs. 'The clothes will dry quickly in this sun and wind," her mother said happily. "We should be all through by ten o'clock." "Oh, if we are, Fm going for a long horseback ride," Delsa cried. "It will be wonderful up the canyon today?buds just bursting, grass so new and green!" They worked swiftly, talking of the wedding and of Alec Windsor and of all the neighbors, whose affairs seemed so much a part of their own daily lives. Long before ten, Delsa was hanging the clothes?the morning sun slanting against her brown curls, turning them to fine gold; the wind whipping her gingham dress about her slim young body. Shaking the sheets like white wings about her shoulders, Delsa gave them a little tug and laughed aloud for the sheer joy of hanging clean clothes in sunlight and wind. "That does it!" She was startled at the exclamation and turned, to see Alec Windsor on his knee at one side of her, a kodak tipped at a rakish angle, as he swiftly recorded the picture before him. "Oh, Alec!" Delsa cried, flushing, "I look a sight! Why don't you wait?" "A sight to be remembered?a sight to be recorded in koda chrome!" Alec laughed, getting up from the soft ground and coming close to her. "That was a beautiful picture, Delsa. I think, if you'll give me permission, I'll enter it in some nation-wide contest. Pick up a little money, and make the world happier at the same time." "Better sell it for advertising," Delsa mocked. "Use Sunny Monday soap chips!" "It'd make me a fortune," he said seriously. Page  He picked up the wicker clothes basket and carried it to the house for her. "What you going to do once the washing's all hung?" he asked. "Oh?nothing much, I guess,? Delsa answered. Her mother heard the question and said, "I thought you were going for a horseback ride, Delsa. Maybe Alec would like to ride, too. Do you ride, Alec?" "I?ll say," he laughed, "have you an extra horse?" "There's Hugh's horse in the barn," Mrs. Marriott went on happily, thinking she was doing Delsa and Alec and Hugh, too, a good turn. DELSA was a little annoyed. She'd planned to ride up to her's and Hugh's "thinking spot"?a big flat boulder that stuck out from the face of the hill east of the ranch, where the two had often sat and pondered on life and death and the weighty problems of youngsters and adolescents. She had wanted to be alone this morning, to think, to plan, to decide. But now she would be with Alec?maybe it would be even more pleasant. She smiled up at him. "Why don't you come with me, Alec? I can show you the whole valley from the hillside up there," and she motioned toward the east. "I can put up a few sandwiches and some cake and a thermos of milk," Mrs. Marriott went on eagerly. "It's warm enough for a picnic. You'd like that, wouldn't you. Alec? Most boys love picnics." So an hour later, Delsa on her little blue mare and Alec on Hugh's roan were climbing up through the pale green brush toward the boulder that would give them a view of the valley. When they reached the spot, Delsa dismounted and let Blue Star's reins trail. Alec swung down from Beauty's back, and came and stood beside her. The mid-day sun was warm, and Delsa took off her bandanna and let her hair blow free. "Isn't the valley lovely?" she asked. "I don't believe there's a more beautiful place in the whole wide world." Alec looked out over the scene spread below him. The valley stretched from north to south, like a long tortoise-shell cat stretched on a rock, sunning itself. The plowed farms were the dark spots on her fur; the wheat stubble the lighter blotches. Back of the sunning valley rose another chain of hills, golden in the spring sun. "Tt is lovely," Alec breathed. Delsa sat down on the boulder, and was grateful for the warmth that the sun had given it and for the peace of the position high above the world. "This is my favorite spot," she said dreamily. Alec sat down beside her, very' close. "You come here often, I guess," he said. "Whenever I can't stand the valley?but that isn't often," she murmured. "Can't stand the valley?" he asked, inviting her confidence. "Oh, you know how it is, where you know everyone and everyone knows you. Sometimes you feel that they are too close, too interested. You want to get away." "Why didn't you get a teaching AND FOR ETERNITY 763 position some other place, then?" The question was gentle. 'If it hadn't been for the war, I probably would have done so," Del-sa said musingly. "But as it was? well, you see so many parents losing their children because they have to, you don't feel like bringing that loss upon your own when it isn't necessary." "You're sweet, Delsa," Alec whispered. He picked up her hand, where it lay open beside her, and gently turned it over. The slender golden band that was Hugh's pledge to her, gleamed upon her slim brown finger; the tiny diamond glistening in the sun. Alec touched it, questioningly. "Does this mean so much to you, Delsa, that you cannot forget it for a moment?" DELSA looked down at the ring and slowly shook her head. "It is the symbol of a pledge," she said softly. Alec's voice became urgent. "If you need a symbol," he began, "the pledge must not be real to you-" "But I have the symbol," she pointed out quietly. "If I slipped it from your finger-let it roll down there among the rocks and brush below us?what of the pledge then? Delsa lifted her eyes to his and the question he had asked was repeated in the clear blue irises. Then she shook her head wonderingly. "Would it be as easy as that?" she asked softly. "Delsa!" Alec cried, "Delsa! You don't love him!" "Oh, I do! I do! I've loved him all my life long, Alec. I'll love him as long as I have life." "IT love you like that, Delsa," Alec whispered, "and I've known you only for days. Delsa, darling, I want to marry you. I want to have a little happiness ?I want something to cling to?Who knows whether your Hugh will ever come back? Who knows whether I will ever come back? You deserve happiness, Delsa. We could find it together." "Hugh must come back, some day," Delsa said, and her throat ached, knowing that when he came he would bring his wife with him, "and so must you. Alec," she added softly. "I'd want to, more than ever, if I had you to come back to." "Alec, Alec! You are pledged, too!" Alec's mouth grew hard and bitter. "Yes, I'm pledged. But when can I keep that pledge? I didn't ask Helen to marry me, just so that 1 could have the pleasure of being engaged. I wanted to be married. I hurried home to marry her. But she was gone. I may never see her again." Delsa shook her head sadly. What could she answer? She knew how he felt ?young and eager and lonely. He wanted arms about him; he wanted love. She felt strangely older than this boy beside her. She understood so well that he was crying, not to her as a sweetheart, so much as to her as a woman?a woman who could take his mother's place, and, holding him in her arms, comfort his loneliness, wipe away his fears. "I'd return to you, Delsa. I'd love you all my life long," he pleaded. "And after that?" she asked. "After that?" he shrugged, "Well, we take our chances." Delsa shook her head. "Not with us. Alec," she said. He looked at her, the urgency still bright in his eyes. "What do you mean?" "If you married me, Alec, it would have to be as we marry in our Church, for time and for eternity. Would you want me for eternity, Alec, if Helen were there, too, not separated by distance and time as she is here?" ALEC'S arms went about her and drew her close and his importunate lips were pressed upon her mouth. When she drew back, he said, "You love me, Delsa, I can feel it. Let's not worry about tomorrow, or the hereafter, or anything else. Let's take what we can take?we'll have that much, anyway, and nothing?neither time nor eternity?can rob us of it once it is ours." But Delsa's yielding, sympathetic mood had passed, and she withdrew from his arms, rising lithely. "We came for a picnic. Alec," she said, "Let's see what Mom put in our lunch?" She went over to Blue Star and took the canvas bag from the saddle. Alec sat moodily staring out over the valley while she laid a cloth and placed sandwiches and cake and the thermos of milk before him. He looked like an unhappy small boy, and she could not refrain from stooping as she passed him, and laying a light kiss upon his frowning brow. He looked up then, and a smile as bright as sunshine chased the dark look from his eyes. "Right!" he cried, and set to work on the lunch. Delsa laughed with him and talked lightly as they ate and later as they rode down the trail together. But she was not happy. The little dialogue there on the boulder, high above the valley, had showed her many things. What these were she couldn't tell just yet ? she would have to be alone, she would have to take out the thoughts that were so jumbled now, smooth them out, and examine them, and find out just what they meant. She didn't get an opportunity to do this until she went to her room that night. There, kneeling in her accustomed place by the window, so that she could look out and see Hugh's old window gleaming in the moonlight, she tried to think. She took Hugh's ring from her finger and looked at it. Was it true that she needed a symbol of her pledge to Hugh and his pledge to her? Was it easier for Hugh to break that pledge because he had no ring to remind him? If that was true, then the thing she had been telling herself all along was not true?that their engagement was binding as a marriage vow, that Hugh had no more right to break it than he would have to violate his marriage pledge. "Yes," she whispered at last, "I have been wrong. If we had married, Hugh and I, it would have been a sacred rite, in God's temple?a vow taken before him, and never to be broken. Our promises to each other were not the same?they required this ring, this shining diamond to remind me of them. Hugh, Hugh, AND FOR ETERNITY 765 forgive me! I know in my heart that if you had taken those other vows, you would have been true to them. It was my fault, perhaps, for not marrying you before you left. Or maybe it was so intended. But however it came to be, you were free to change, Hugh. You had that right. And you acted honorably in writing to me as you did. Oh, Hugh, I see now that I can write to you at last and release you from your promise to me." She laid her forehead against the window sill and held Hugh's ring in her hand, watching it, while the sense of being wronged and cheated slowly dissolved in her heart. I still love Hugh, she thought wonderingly, I think I love him even more than I did before. I love him so much that I want him to be happy?I don't want him to feel lost and afraid as Alec feels right now. And if that Australian girl can comfort him?if her real arms mean more to him than the memory of mine? then I want him to have them. She shook her head slowly. I hope she loves you, Hugh, truly loves you. I hope she isn't marrying you because she feels the compassion for you that I felt for Alec today-She stopped on that thought, "compassion"; then she repeated it softly, "compassion. Is that all I feel for Alec? Is that all that his need awakens in me? Compassion? Could that sustain us through time ? and through eternity?" She sat there a long time after that, looking out into the night, not even thinking. But at last she rose and went slowly across the room to her dressing table. She carefully put Hugh's ring in a small box and put this in the top drawer, and shut the drawer slowly, surely. Then she went to her bed, and the smooth white pillow was not cooler nor more quiet than her own cheek against it. (To he continued) VOLUNTEER PRICE CONTROL SERVICE THE battle to keep prices down is still going on. Strong inflationary pressures are still with us and will be until the supply of goods can catch up with the demand. Experience has taught us that the greatest danger lies ahead. The cost of living continued to rise after World War I, reaching its highest point during the months immediately following the armistice. Help is needed in preventing a recurrence of this experience. Returning servicemen and war workers seeking new jobs, as well as all other citizens, should be protected from inflation and the economic depression which inevitably follows. Relief Society women should keep informed on the latest announcements on rationing and price control which touch the lives of all of us. Relief Society members who personally wish to help may do so by offering assistance to the local Price Control Boards, or by responding when a special call is made for volunteers as tliey are needed. A few hours of time each month, spent in making price surveys at nearby stores or doing clerical work at a Board office, \\dll be of benefit. TO MAKE TWO DOLLS FROM ONE PAIR OF SOCKS Most effective if man's work sock with redtoe and heel is used. For babies use pink or blue bobby sock. 1? Cut toe off here (one inch from colored port of toe) 2?Open foot flat and cut in toward heel about three inches and sew cut edges together on wrong side. (Making the two legs.)  3?Stuff stocking with cotton. Tie 1 string just above ribbing, and another one about three inches down to form the head.  4?Double back ribbing to form cap. Catch stitch to head. Blanket stitch edge. S?Cut toe in half lengthwise. Sew cut edges on wrong side and stuff, for arms. 6-Attach arms to sides of body. 7?Embroider eyes, nose and mouth. 8?Make pompoms of bright yarn. Tie pompoms at neck, wrists and ankles. Stitch pompoms to top of cap and down front. Page 766 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 14?The Missionary System Broadened Dr. H. Wayne Diiggs For Tuesday, March 5, 1946 Objective: To develop the truth that the gospel is ours, but we must strive to carry it to others. IT is paradoxical to learn in life that often the best things we keep by giving them away. In imparting knowledge to others the teacher himself learns. By kind acts to fellow beings one gains in personal kindliness. Love itself is reciprocal. Does not God's gift of his Only Begotten Son forever draw us nearer the Eternal Father? Knowing the strength of this seeming inconsistency, the Lord has always set men's minds upon service to be rendered, rather than personal profits to be gained. "But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant" (Matt. 23:11). These were his words to the disciples. With the establishment of his kingdom in the latter days, there has come the same opportunity to serve. Hardly had the Church been organized when the call was given to Parley P. Pratt and his companions to go upon a mission to the Laman-ites (Doc. And Gov. 32). And ever since that October in the year 1830, servants of the Lord in steadily increasing numbers have gone forth to preach the gospel, only to find that they, in turn, have become more converted to the faith. Nor have there been any limits set as to the distances these present-day disciples of the Lord were to carry the message of salvation. As in the days of Peter, so now the passage reads: Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world (Matt. 28:19-20). It is good to have the comfort of the last thought the Lord gave in this injunction. He is always to be with his servants. Missionaries by the hundreds from the year 1830 to the present day have learned,. Through personal experiences, the need for such a priceless companion. The work of the elder or seventy has always been difficult. Page 767  Bitter opposition to the word of God has caused his servants much suffering and misery, even death.
When the first missionaries were sent to England in 1837, the forces of evil which blind the eyes of men were most dramatically made real. Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde and Willard Richards saw legions of devils and felt their physical violence. With hatred toward these brethren for the priesthood they held, and bitterness for the gospel they were to bring to the British people, the fiends of darkness assailed the missionaries. Elder Kimball was knocked senseless to the floor. He recalls the happening in these words:
I was struck with great force by some invisible power, and fell senseless to the floor. The first thing I recollected was being supported by Elders Hyde and Richards, who were praying for me . . . Elders Hyde and Richards then assisted me to get on the bed . . . when a vision was opened to our minds, and we could distinctly see the evil spirits, who foamed and gnashed their teeth at us. We gazed upon them about an hour and a half (by Willard's watch). We were not looking towards the window, but towards the corner of the room. Elder Richards finally saw the devils coming with their legions, who came towards us like armies rushing to battle. They appeared to be men of full stature, possessing every form and feature of men in the flesh who are angry and desperate; and I shall never forget the vindictive malignity depicted on their countenances as they looked me in the eye; . . . We distinctly heard those spirits talk and express their wrath and hellish designs against us. However, the Lord delivered us from them, and blessed us exceedingly that day (Doc. and Cov. Commentary, page 634; ORSON F. WHITNEY, Life of Heber C. Kimball, page 144).
The majority of the missionaries who have gone forth on their good tidings, while not encountering such exceptional experiences with the spirit world, have, nevertheless, seen the flames of hatred for God's work in the eyes of ill-informed men and women. The malice planted in their hearts by the adversary in the case of some nonbelievers has led to overt acts of violence. To be a Mormon missionary at times has meant not to be sure of life itself.
There is a love for the truth, however, which makes men brave. One day, they know, every soul must acknowledge Christ. This it is, among other things, that keeps those who have accepted the good word forever trying. The express command from the Lord, too, that his word must be preached puts an obligation upon the Church to have elders abroad in missionary service.
As we have followed the history of the saints from Palmyra to Salt Lake Valley, often amid their most dire trials has come the call for men to leave their homes and go abroad to preach the gospel. Through the service of home missionaries within the missions and the stakes of Zion, hundreds of faithful Latter-day Saints, not called up on to devote all their time to preaching the gospel, are also spending many hours seeking out the honest in heart. A steadily increasing number of converts are thus coming into the Church through these laborers. Even the recruiting of the Mormon Battalion in the year 1846 was not without its missionary service. Just so, today, our boys abroad in the armed forces are in the most real sense bearers of the truth. Their lives, when held in line with the teachings of the Church, will add to the glory of the latter-day work. 
LESSON DEPARTMENT 769 Before giving a few excerpts from the journals of early missionaries of the Church, let us look at the names and dates of the major missions opened over the earth, since Elder Heber C. Kimball and his companions first went to the British Isles in 1837. Most of this work*of the gathering of Israel was underway before the turn of the century in 1900. There are two dates before 1837 which should be mentioned again. One is 1830, which marks the first mission of all which was the one to the Lamanites. Oliver Cowdery, Parley P. Pratt, and Ziba Peterson were sent at that time. Six years later. Elder Pratt and others opened the mission to Canada. Orson Hyde went to Palestine in 1841; Noah Rogers and others to the Society Islands in 1844; and Erastus Snow to Scandinavia in 1850. Four other missions were opened in this same year, the French by John Taylor, the Italian by Lorenzo Snow, the Swiss by T. B. H. Stenhouse, and the Hawaiian by George Q. Cannon and companions. The following year three other countries were added to the foregoing fields: South America by Parley P. Pratt; Australia by John Murdock and Charles W. Wandell; and India. In 1853, Elders Jesse Haven, Leonard Smith and William Walker went to South Africa. In 1854 AA Zealand was opened; in 1861 the Netherlands, in 1888 Samoa, and in 1901 President Heber J. Grant opened the Japanese field. The harvest was ripe during the beginning years of the missionary work of the Restored Church. Parley P. Pratt records in his journal the following concerning the number of saints to leave England for Zion: Between the middle of September [1840] and my own embarkation in October, I chartered three vessels for New Orleans and filled them with the migrating Saints viz.: The 'Sidney/ with one hundred and eighty souls; the 'Medford/ with two hundred and fourteen souls; and the 'Henry,' with one hundred and fifty-seven. I next chartered the 'Emerald' on which I placed about two hundred and fifty passengers, including myself and family (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 361). Next to England, no field has been more fruitful than the Scandinavian. For a glimpse of the early mission encounters in that vineyard one may well turn to the journal of Andrew Jenson who served for many years as assistant Church historian. He relates this experience on the island of Mors in the province of Jutland, Denmark, under the date of July 1874. Bitter opposition had been encountered by the missionaries there before the incident here given was recorded. It was on a Friday evening that the two missionaries met on the Nykjobing wharf, and instead of putting up in the little city, they struck out in the country at once. Night found them in the village of Jorsby, ten miles to the north, where they found friends who kept them over night. Early the next morning the house, in which they had slept, was approached by a crowd of fishermen hailing from the west coast of Jutland. They had been out on the fjord fishing, but a storm had compelled them to seek shelter for a day or so in the village, which was situated on the east coast of the island. These men were known to be a rough set, and when the owner of the house where the missionaries stopped saw them approaching in their long watertight boots, their short jackets and heads covered with huge fishermen's storm caps, he felt alarmed, fearing that they came for the purpose of ill-treating his guests; and so expressed himself to them, but the young Utah elder told him not to fear, as nobody would get hurt. A loud rap on the door, a response of "vaer saa god" (please step in), and in filed a dozen or more strong, weather-beaten sailors, who immediately introduced themselves in their own peculiar way by saying that they had come out of pure curiosity to see the man from Utah, whom they had been informed stopped at the house. "Then I am perhaps the man you look for," said the young elder, as he rose from the table and shook hands with them all. "I shall be pleased to answer any proper question you may wish to put to me concerning Utah and her people" (Autobiography of Andrew Jenson, page 75). The distant travels of Elder George Q. Cannon to the Hawaiian people in the year 1850 opened one of the most colorful chapters in the story of missionary endeavor of the Church. It was the Book of Mormon, the greatest of missionary aids, that so often comforted Elder Cannon and his companions just as it has done hundreds of others of the Lord's servants. From his writings entitled "My First Mission," chapters 12 and 16, the following excerpts are taken: Before I commenced holding regular meetings, I had plenty of time for meditation, and to review all the events of my short life, and to think of the beloved home from which I was so far separated. It was then that I found the value of the Book of Mormon. It was a book which I always loved. But I learned there to appreciate it as I had never done before. If I felt inclined to be lonely, to be low spirited, or homesick, I had only to turn to its sacred pages to receive consolation, new strength and a rich out-pouring of the Spirit Scarcely a page that did not contain encouragement for such as I was. The salvation of man was the great theme upon which its writers dwelt, and for this they were willing to undergo every privation and make every sacrifice. What were my petty difficulties compared with those afflictions which they had to endure? If I expected to share the glory for which they contended, I could see that I must labor in the same spirit. If the sons of King Mosiah could relinquish their high estate, and go forth among the degraded Lamanites to labor as they did, should not I labor with patience and devoted zeal for the salvation of these poor red men, heirs of the same promise? Let me recommend this book, therefore, to young and old, if they need comfort and encouragement. Especially can I recommend it to those who are away from home on missions. No man can read it, partake of its spirit and obey its teachings, without bein" filled with a deep love for the souls of men and a burning zeal to do all in his power to save them.... The conversations, which I had with the natives concerning the Book of Mormon and the origin of the red men, made them anxious to see it. "It is truly surprising how soon the work of translation began. The first elders landed at Honolulu in December, 1850. Not long afterwards Elder Cannon deeply desiring to know the language had the gift of interpretation given to him. His progress in the new tongue must have been rapid, for in less than two months he was beginning to put the record of the Nephites before some of their descend ants. He writes: 'In the last days of the month of January, 1851, I commenced the work of translation. My fellow laborers, the elders, encouraged me, and from the First Presidency at home ?Presidents Young, Kimball and Richards?came words of cheer, approving of what I was doing, and counseling me to persevere.' "Naturally this work of translation could be only a part of the missionary work. Preaching, explaining the doctrines, meeting the opposition raised against them by Christian ministers, baptizing, traveling from place to place, administering to the sick, all had their time and place. LESSON DEPARTMENT 771In reference to his work after returning to Wailuku, where he had first found a friendly reception, and from which place he had removed to save his friend, J. H. Napela, from the persecution of the Presbyterian minister, who had so bitterly opposed the work, Elder Cannon writes: ?The preaching of the gospel created great excitement; the people came by hundreds to hear the testimony, and I had the satisfaction of seeing the missionary who had treated me so badly and who had so bitterly opposed and lied about the work, almost deserted by his congregation; they having left his church to hear us preach and see us baptize.... We baptized a large number of people at Wailuku and the adjacent towns, erected a large meeting-house at that place and smaller ones at the other villages, and organized large and flourishing branches of the Church!' " (Joseph J. Cannon, "George A. Cannon," Instructor, October '44, pages 456-458). Though the darkening shadow of war robbed the world of nearly all but home missionaries, yet the day will come again when the elders of Israel will resume their efforts to carry the gospel to the nations of the world. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. Discuss the work of the seventies in relation to the missionary program of the Church (See Doc. And Cov. 107:25). 2. Have class members who are familiar with missionary work conducted at centers such as Temple Square, Hill Cumorah, etc., tell what they know of this work. 3. It has been said that once a person is a Mormon he is always a Mormon. Though this is not entirely true, there is enough basis for fact in it to cause one to ask?Why." Discuss this question. 4. As a people we are ever ready to explain our faith to others. Why? Read the word of the Lord to three of the early members of the Church and note the one charge he gave to all of them (Doc. And Cov. 4; 6:1-9; 11). 5. Read Doc. And Cov. 46:1-7. Note the attitude of the Lord toward him who is seeking the way of life. 6. Have class members who have filled missions, including home missions, relate interesting missionary experiences. For home study suggest the reading of the missionary experiences of Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon, and Jacob Hamblin. (See Three Mormon Classics, compiled by Preston Nibley, available at