CHRISTMAS AT NORTH-HEAD LIGHT Beatrice Knowlton Ekman The rock-bound lighthouse fronts the sea, Below, the breakers roar In angry combat endlessly Where waves on cliff rocks pour. All day the gulls wing overhead, Fog hides the outflung space Where sailors' hearts are filled with dread Watching the dark sea's face.... The ocean wind blown in to shore, The cries of birds in flight, Will carol round the lighthouse door To mark the Christmas night. General Relief Society Conference October 3 and 4, 1945 A General Relief Society Conference was held on October 3 and 4, 1945, at Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Belle S. Spafford presiding. The following sessions were held: An officers' meeting on Wednesday afternoon, October 3, in the Assembly Hall on Temple Square for general, mission and stake officers; A reception to honor retiring President Amy Brown Lyman and the retired members of her General Board, for stake and mission officers and specially invited guests on Wednesday night, October 3, in the Lafayette Ballroom of the Hotel Utah; Morning and afternoon general sessions for Relief Society workers and the general public on Thursday, October 4, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle at 10 a. M. And 2 p. M. This general Relief Society conference, the first held since October 1941, because of World War II, had a record-breaking attendance. The audience on Thursday afternoon completely filled the Tabernacle. A spirit of enthusiasm pervaded by a spirit of love and unity in Relief Society work was manifest throughout the sessions. A feature of the conference was the launching, with the approval of the First Presidency, of the erection of a central Relief Society building to be erected in Salt Lake City, detailed plans for which will be publicized later. The final session was blessed by the presence of President George Al-Page 724 bert Smith who delivered a moving address for the guidance of the mothers of the Church and all members of Relief Society. A number of other members of the General Church Authorities and members of the General Church Welfare Committee were in attendance at the Thursday sessions as well as specially invited guests. The music for the conference was under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen, member of the General Board. A solo 'The Voice in the Wilderness" was beautifully sung by Aline Peterson; and Lily Priestly, at the organ, rendered lovely selections for the prelude and postlude numbers at the Wednesday afternoon meeting. At the Thursday sessions, under the direction of Sister Madsen, with Brother Alexander Schreiner at the Tabernacle organ, a chorus of Singing Mothers from the sixteen stakes comprising the Salt Lake Region rendered beautiful and inspiring numbers. This same group was asked by the First Presidency to furnish the special music for the first two sessions of the 116th Semiannual General Conference of the Church held the following day, on Friday, October 5. The opening and closing prayers at the three sessions were offered by present and former Relief Society mission presidents. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 725 There were representatives from 146 stakes and 18 missions of the Church. On Monday morning, October 8, in the Relief Society General Board room in the Bishop's Building, a meeting was held by the Relief Society General Presidency and members of the General Board Mission Lesson Committee with the mission Relief Society presidents of 17 missions. The address delivered at the Thursday afternoon session in the Tabernacle by President George Albert Smith is printed in full as the feature article of this issue of the Magazine. Digests of the other talks given at the various sessions follow in the order of their delivery. OFFICERS' MEETING, OCTOBER 3, 1945