Present-Day Visiting Teaching Opportunities Leone G. Layton Member Relief Society General Board HISTORY is never made in the abstract. Always it is something someone has done. History is never a solid mass of achievement; it is a mosaic of countless parts, each one perfected by the sacrificial devotion of some particular person" (Dr. Waldemar W. Argrow, Sunshine Magazine, July 1945). The history of Relief Society has been determined by the ideals, the plans, and the hopes of those who have gone before us. The program of visiting teaching is based upon an ideal, the ideal of the brotherhood of man, that man is indeed his brother's keeper and that love of man is a virtue all possess. The plan of those who instigated this program was that the sisters of the Church should be concerned with the welfare of the group in which they lived, that those who were sorrowing should be comforted, those who were hungry should be fed, and those who were naked should be clothed. It was not a new plan. One who had lived on earth many years ago had pointed the way, had put the principle to practice in his own life. The Prophet Joseph, in instructing the sisters, called attention to this, saying, "Said Jesus, ?Ye shall do the work, which ye see me do.' GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 731 ?Photograph courtesy of Deseret News. Centerpiece on Table at Reception Honoring Former President Amy Brown Lyman on the Evening of October 3, 1945, at Hotel Utah. Left to right: Lillie J. Roberts, teacher's topic leader and Gertrude J. Iverson, theology leader, Bear River Stake Relief Society Board; Mary Smith Ellsworth, President California Mission Relief Societies; Clarice G. Sloan, former Relief Society President of Portland Stake; Ethel B. Andrew, former General Board member, now Nampa Stake Relief Society President; Caroline T. Eccles, literature leader, East Mill Creek Stake Board. These Are the grand key-words for the Society to act upon." Today we have this mighty sisterhood. We have on the rolls of Relief Society 29,027 visiting teachers who call in the homes of the Church members. It has been a wonderful plan, it is indeed an ideal plan, and, because it is based on an ideal, it must be measured by that ideal. Percentages may measure accurately the number of visits made in homes, but the good those visits accomplish, the heart-warming, soul-stirring good they do can never be read from figures. Yet, sisters, we hear even from stake presidents, "Are we still going to do visiting teaching? We just can't get women to go. They say they are not wanted in the homes, and anyway there is no need to go now we no longer receive contributions." Are there no longer sorrowing people? Are there no longer those who hunger spiritually? Is there no longer a need for human love and interest among our Relief Society sisters? Too few visiting teachers are "called to the work." Rather, they are pleaded with after Relief Society or at any time they happen to be met. "Oh, Sister Jones, won't you help us out with visiting teaching? We just can't get anyone to go! We know just how hard it is to get away, but if you'll just help us out for a little while...."Does this give a sister a vision of the opportunity being presented to her? Attitude means everything in the accomplishment of work. No one who does not have within herself a love of Relief Society and of visiting teaching can do this as it should be done. We must love the sisters we visit with the pure love of the gospel. We must desire with all our hearts to serve them. Never has there been a greater opportunity for doing the Master's work than there is in the world today.
We have the greatest organization ever put on earth for women, but it is of no avail unless we use it. The
organization is here, the opportunities for doing good are here. The leadership which determines the use made of that organization and those opportunities is here today. Your attitude, your vision, your understanding and love of the work determine the fulfillment of the ideal enunciated to us. You here today hold in your keeping the future of the visiting teaching program. See that you guard it well.
Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day (Doc. and Cov. 4:2).
GENERAL SESSION, MORNING OF OCTOBER 4, 1945