A Relief Society Building to Be Erected President Belle S. Spafford THIS is a glorious day for Relief Society, a day for which we have longed and prayed, knowing full well it could come only when the nations should still the guns of war. We are grateful to our Heavenly Father that the hostilities which have engulfed the earth, spreading destruction and breaking hearts, have ceased. We acknowledge his goodness that so soon after the disruptions of war we are privileged to meet in a general Relief Society conference.
This is the first general Relief Society conference to be held since the Society observed its 102th birthday. We are today setting our feet forward on the second century of Relief Society history. As we approach this new era, we do not anticipate any new nor great departmental purposes of the Society as set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith and reiterated by each of the succeeding presidents of the Church.
The past is a force that is alive, and, like all living things, is growing and maturing while preserving a pattern that can be recognized and defined. From the past we inherit not only patterns and standards, but vision, strength, insight, faith and courage. The past has passed on to us, too, as a part of our heritage, its unfulfilled dreams and desires and bids us keep faith with it in regard to these, for these, too, are a constant invitation to advancement and progress.
Sister Sharp has brought to your attention today a deep-seated and sincere desire that has persisted in the hearts and minds of Relief Society women year after year as the century has rolled by?the desire for a Relief Society building, one that would beautifully and adequately represent the women of the Church. This desire, born and nurtured in the past, is today firmly rooted in our hearts. And, entering as we are upon a second century of Relief Society, a strong and growing organization rich in the blessings of the Lord, this seems the right and appropriate time to bring to fruition this dream of the past, to erect a building that shall stand a monument to Latter-day Saint women and a credit to the Church.
Our Church is the foremost organization in all the world with regard to women. The restored gospel gives to women a position of dignity and respect. It recognizes their spiritual and mental powers and their right to use their inborn talents to the full. Latter-day Saint women have been organized under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood and have been provided unlimited opportunities for development. The gospel teaches that women have an appointed place in the plan of salvation and that the Lord loves his daughters as he loves his sons and that the promises, blessings are the same for both. It, therefore, seems entirely fitting that a building should be erected as a symbol to all people of the lofty position accorded faithful daughters of our Heavenly Father in the gospel plan.
Nurtured by a Church recognizing woman's true position, women have, in turn, given full devotion to the Church. This has been true with regard to the building program of the Church. Even before the women were organized as a Society in Nauvoo, they banded together to help feed and clothe the men working on the Kirtland Temple. It was with the desire to aid the work of building the Nauvoo Temple that Sarah M. Kimball, in 1842, invited her neighbors to join with her in forming a "Ladies' Society." When the Prophet Joseph Smith was approached regarding this matter, he invited the women to meet with him and some of the brethren a week later, at which time (March 17, 1842) the women were organized as the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo."
Lucy Mack, mother of the Prophet, spoke of the importance attached by the women to their activities in behalf of the Nauvoo Temple, as follows:
There was but one mainspring to all our thoughts and actions and that was the building of the Lord's house.
Relief Society women have given of their best according to their circumstances and conditions, toward the building, furnishing, and beautifying of temples erected by the Church.
Not only have Relief Society women been vitally interested in the building of temples but they have been generous in their donations to stake tabernacles, ward meeting houses, and other Church buildings, generally raising funds for these edifices as well as building funds,
cooking and serving dinners or conducting bazaars which have taken weeks and months of tedious preparation.
Yet, after more than one hundred years, during which time they have actively participated in the building program of the Church, they stand today with no home of their own.
The continuing growth of the Society, with the continuous expansion of the various departments connected by the General Board, also demand that provision soon be made to more adequately house the general offices, the temple-burial clothes, Magazine, welfare and other departments.
With the consent of the First Presidency, and with your support, it is our intention to go forward immediately with plans for the building and for financing its erection. It is our desire to have the building belong to the women of the Church and to have every Relief Society woman feel the pride of ownership in it. It is our desire to have the building not only house the general offices and the various departments maintained by the General Board, but to have it be of service to all members of the Society. We expect to include in it comfortable lounge rooms where you may leave your wraps, a well as meet a friend; check rooms where you may leave your bundles; a relic room where choice articles of historic value may be preserved and displayed; an auditorium with well-equipped work and exhibition kitchens where homemaking demonstrations and lectures may be given, as well as other features suitable to a Relief Society building and the work of the Society.
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 753 It is our earnest desire that it shall be built by the many rather than the few. That every person may be given opportunity to contribute to its erection and enjoy the sense of satisfaction and pride that comes from so doing, we believe that every one of our more than 100,000 members will want to make a contribution and thus become in reality a part owner in this Relief Society home and Latter-day Saint women's memorial edifice. We believe that throughout the Church are many men, as well, who will welcome the opportunity to honor a wife or mother by contributing funds, and that many other friends of Relief Society will wish to show their regard for the Society by assisting financially. Through the united support of all, we believe that the necessary finances will be readily and willingly contributed. We realize, however, that to erect the type of building we have in mind is a mammoth undertaking. We know that if we are to realize our ambition the full support of every enrolled member of Relief Society will be necessary. We would like at this time to know your attitude toward the proposed building program. Therefore, just as our sisters of long ago called for a vote on this identical proposition, so today, forty-nine years later, we too are calling for a vote of this great congregation composed of Relief Society women of our day representing most of the stakes and many of the missions of the Church. Your General Board proposes the erection at the earliest possible date of a Relief Society building that shall be monumental and beautiful, to adequately serve the members of the Society not only for today but in the years to come. Will all those in favor of this proposition please show it by the uplifted hand. (The vote was unanimous in the affirmative.) This is a glorious experience, not only to see your uplifted hands but to feel your support. As soon as plans for the building and its financing are perfected and approved they will be released to you. We feel assured of your support. We appreciate your support in all of the work of Relief Society. We are grateful for your righteousness and your spirit of service. We are grateful for the strength of your testimonies. We are grateful for the women of the past, for their vision and understanding of the needs of Latter-day Saint women, and for their great contribution to us and to the future. We are above all things grateful for the gospel. May the Lord bless you and comfort you and may our righteous and worthy ambitions know fulfillment I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. [The address by President George Albert Smith, page 715, was then delivered. ]