General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1945 
THIS is a very unusual sight and also an unusual experience. No other organization in the world of women can present such a picture as you have here today?this famous building filled with the daughters of our Heavenly Father. To have this meeting in the Tabernacle, with a great organ that is known all over the world, and to enjoy the great chorus of Singing Mothers make this an event that we will all remember.
I congratulate the women's Relief Society that was begun by the Prophet Joseph Smith upon being the only organization in all the world that was organized by a Prophet of God to represent the women of the Church. While you may feel that at one time you were a long way from the center of so-called civilization, the fact is that today you are the center of civilization.
Relief Society Building
This is an occasion that I enjoy just as much as you do. I have been waiting for the last four or five years to see this large group assemble in general conference. If you are going to have a house large enough to hold yourselves from now on, you may as well plan to build it. I am delighted to have had some thinking of erecting such a structure.
Don't you think it would be appropriate for you women of the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church that bears his name by divine authority, to have a home of your own into which you could invite the spirit of the Lord when you hold your meetings? I realize you have been disappointed in the past; you thought you had a home once before, but it turned out to be the Presiding Bishop's office also. But now your prospect seems to be better, and as you think about it and plan for it, you will be very happy. I don't care how fine it is, how large it is, or how beautiful it is; it will not be better than you deserve. There isn't anything too good for you as long as you keep the commandments of the Lord. You know he said, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you."
I am thinking today of the desirability of a house that will be the headquarters for the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. You may be sure that if you do your part, the Lord will do his. I am sure it will be a satisfaction to some of you who do not have homes of your own to know that there is a house in which to have an interest where you can meet and have enjoyment in the company of your sisters. It will be a gratifying experience for the daughters of Zion to feel that they have been able to provide themselves a suitable home, and that day is not far away. Until that time comes, I am happy that there is a house as fine as this that is our Father's house, in which we can all meet and know that his spirit is present.
The Influence of Relief Society
The seven or eight thousand women here today are but a small part of your membership. It is a large congregation to be sure, but do you realize that the daughters of Zion are the mothers of a group twelve times as large as this that has been serving their country in the armed forces of the United States? The mothers of the nation gave their sons to America. It was the mothers of the Church who offered what was dearer than life itself to them. He said to their sons, "It is your duty under the Constitution of our land and the recommendations of the Church with which we are identified, to go and help preserve the liberty of the world." So today, as large as this audience is, the group that is coming back to you will be twelve times as large, every one of them a representative of the daughters and the mothers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and they have made a wonderful record for you. The letters that have come home, I am sure, have filled your hearts with joy. Satisfaction has filled your soul when the commendation of superior officers has been extended to many of those that belong to you. And now, in the merciful providence of our Father, the war is finished, and by the shipload your
sons will be returning home; and what a wonderful thing it is to know that most of those sons can return to their mothers after having jeopardized their lives that we all might enjoy the blessings so generously bestowed upon us by a loving Heavenly Father.
I feel that I am standing on sacred ground, for in this pulpit have appeared some of the great men and women of the world, those who were anxious to do what the Lord desired them to do. Here they bore testimony of the divine mission of our Savior Jesus Christ. I was born across the street from this Tabernacle. So I have seen the beautiful buildings erected here, including the Temple, completed and occupied. We will soon celebrate the one-hundredth anniversary of the coming of the pioneers. The first company came here with all they possessed in covered wagons drawn by the animals that they could secure, oxen that could work their way across the plains, subsisting on wild grass enroute. See what God has wrought in that hundred years! From the most undesirable wilderness you would imagine, this valley has grown to appear as the garden of the Lord.
I am thinking now of President Brigham Young and his associates with that first company. If they could look down and see the daughters of the people assembled today in peace and thanksgiving and gratitude, how happy they would be. And I imagine they can do that very thing. You have such a diversity of opportunities with the faith that you have. You possess all that the world has that is really essential to eternal happiness, plus the gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord. So I am thinking today how grateful we ought to be. How thankful I am that a little over seventy-five years ago a mother offered her life that the man who is talking to you might be born. When I think of what the women in this Church have passed through in order that the sons and daughters of God might come into the world, I realize that today you have been blessed in so many ways. You do not have the hardships of pioneering your forebears had, and today it is recognized that you are as blessed, and I may say more blessed than any other women in all the world. You were the first women to have the franchise; the first women to have a voice in the work of a church. It was God that gave it to you and it came as a result of revelation to a Prophet of the Lord. Since that time, think what benefits the women of this world have enjoyed. Not only you belonging to the Church have enjoyed the blessing of equality, but when the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for the emancipation of womankind, it was turned for all the world, and from generation to generation the number of women who can enjoy the blessings of religious liberty and civil liberty has been increasing.
Singing Mothers Church-wide
I thought as I listened to this lovely choir here, you never heard of a choir of Singing Mothers until you heard of it in the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I was down in the South Seas a few years ago, in New Zealand, Australia, Samoa, Tonga and Hawaii, and in each of these countries I have listened and
here, there were choruses of Singing Mothers. I could not understand the words they sang, except I assumed that the words were suited to the music that we are accustomed to hearing in such songs as "Come, Come Ye Saints."
It was delightful to me to know that even though they didn't have comfortable seats to sit on like you folks have, they made no complaints. They often said that as hard as these seats are in the Tabernacle, they are about the most comfortable benches anybody ever sat on. I remember seeing a fine congregation of nearly two thousand natives in Apia, British Samoa. They were in two houses, one that had been built for worship, and then a school building adjoining that could be used in connection with the house of worship. These buildings had large doors like this Tabernacle. Then there was a bowery on one side, making three congregations in one. Instead of having comfortable benches, everybody sat on the floor. It was interesting to see them come in. Men and women would walk in, one carrying a roll of matting made of bark or leaves. They would open it out on the floor and a group would sit down on it; then another would come in with another mat and that would be rolled out and another group would sit on that. When the house was filled and everybody comfortably situated, they would sit and sing, keeping time to the music sometimes by the motion of their hands and bodies. It was a lovely picture, one I had never seen any place before.
I remember the last night we spent at mission headquarters before leaving for home. After we were in bed, the last thing we could hear was a group singing in one of the nearby native homes. And the next morning when we awoke, they were singing religious songs, not the nonsense we are amazed with over the radio, but they were singing praises and their voices were tuneful. I thought, if you dark-skinned folk can be as happy as you are with the few opportunities that are yours, then how joyful our lives should be in such a country as we have. I have thought of it many times since. The first group of Relief Society sisters that President Rufus K. Hardy and I saw when we arrived at Apia in the Samoan Islands numbered about two hundred. All of them had cream-colored dresses, not white dresses, but they were all dressed in cream-colored dresses made by their own hands. When they learned that we were going to have a big conference there, the women went out in the woods and gathered the bark of the hypo trees. Then they placed this bark on a large log and pounded it with a hardwood club into great sheets that looked like blotting paper. They were able to make this material as large as they wanted by adding to it. When the sheets were large enough, with such knives or scissors as they had, they cut out their dresses, and with the thread that they could make or purchase they sewed their clothing by hand. The only other adornment they had was a necklace that they called ula which was made of tissue paper or some other available material. They were excellent singers; their voices were tuneful and they kept perfect time. I saw another group of your Relief Society women among the Maori people. In the particular case I have in mind, there were three thousand people in the congregation. That was during their Hui tau, or annual conference. They had a chorus of Singing Mothers. They were strong and vigorous; there wasn't a sickly looking woman in the crowd, and how they could sing! I had a picture of sixty of them, and there was not one among that group of sixty women that wasn't the mother of twelve or more children. Children, Treasures in Heaven One of the thoughts that I desire to impress on Relief Society mothers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to teach your sons and daughters that the blessing of God that you may have with you forever will be children?families of children. You will not have any pride in owning automobiles and other material possessions such as we spend so much of our time to acquire, but on the other side of the veil in the celestial kingdom, the Relief Society mother who has brought a family of children into the world and kept them developing until they have graduated to be servants of our Heavenly Father will have treasures in heaven that will outmeasure and outvalue all the treasures of the earth. I would like to pass that on to you. I would also like to suggest to you that we do not have to live like the world does. If we live like the world does, we will become like the world, and when we go to the other side, we will have the reward that the world has. The Lord intended we should "come out of the world." ADDRESS TO MEMBERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 719 He intended that his sons and daughters should have an opportunity to grow up under his inspiration, not under the influence of the adversary. So your forebears and mine, many of them, came across the sea or from other parts of America and sought first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. They settled in this marvelous part of the world that has been the safest place to be found anywhere. You are in the part of the world that has not suffered for any of the necessities of life. Here your children can be educated and have all the opportunities and privileges and blessings in this great land of America. The Lord called this land "choice above all other lands," and when you think of what we enjoy, it is true. But all his children in other lands are precious to him, and it is our duty and our privilege to so measure our facilities and our advantages that we will want to divide with all the children of God the blessings that we enjoy. These Singing Mothers are not just for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints here in the valleys of the mountains; they are for the islands of the sea and the nations of the earth, and as daughters of our Heavenly Father, they have honored him and magnified him in their songs of praise and thanksgiving. Now, I rejoice with you today that you can meet again in the great Tabernacle where peace and quiet and the inspiration of the Lord can be enjoyed. Isn't it lovely to meet together here! This is a beautiful picture. I congratulate you with all my heart that in your first meeting after the close of the war, you can fill the Tabernacle to overflowing. Do you realize you have opened this Tabernacle to the first general conference we have had for years? Only the priesthood officers have been invited during recent conferences. Now the sky is the limit, and I am not so sure but by the time we have two or three more general conferences here, we may have visitors from Australia, New Zealand, Africa, China, Japan, etc. They may leave their homes in airplanes and in about twenty-four hours be right here. It is marvelous what the Lord has given to us in this age. Tribute to Mothers Today I thank him with all my heart for our blessings. I desire to impress on you daughters of God, you mothers of men, that if this world is to endure, you must keep the faith. If this world is to be happy, you will have to set the pace for that happiness. The adversary of all righteousness and of all happiness has had his innings for a long time in the world. He has betrayed many of the daughters of God into bad habits, and the result will be that their children will suffer from bad habits. If we are to maintain our physical strength and mental power and spiritual joy, it will have to be on the Lord's terms, and he has told us what those terms are. My dear sisters, remember what a power you have with these boys and girls who are growing up. You may have lovely homes and you may have a lot of lovely possessions, but the most desirable thing you have will be the companionship of the sons and daughters of God, in many cases, your own. What a blessing the Lord has given to you. We have had a great war and millions of lives have been lost. On the stand here is a copy of the Book of Mormon, the history of the ancestors of the American Indian, sometimes referred to as the American volume of scripture. I find here in this book a tribute to motherhood, such as I have found in no other publication that I have ever read.
You remember the story of the two thousand sons of Helaman. When Lehi came to the promised land, because this was the promised land to them, his family divided; part of them served the Lord and part of them did not. Those who did not become the wild red men of the country, called Lamanites. Those who tried to keep the commandments of the Lord did very well for some time, but by and by the warfare between the two groups was such that it looked as if the Lamanites would overrun the country and take all the property of their white brothers, the Nephites. Hundreds of the Lamanites had joined the Church and when they did so, they made a covenant with the Lord that if he would accept them into the Church they would not again take up arms against their fellows.
After a few years the wars became so serious it looked as if the Lamanites might prevail. Then the Lamanites who had joined the Church said, "Here, we cannot stand by and let you protect us; we are going out to fight for ourselves." Then one of the leaders of the Church said, "You have made a covenant with the Lord (I would like you sisters today to remember that suggestion)?you have made a covenant with the Lord. You cannot
betray the Lord or fail to keep your covenants. You cannot go out to fight and we will have to go on protecting you." Then they discovered that more than two thousand young men had grown up since that covenant had been made who had never made the covenant that they would not fight. So they were marshalled and sent out to battle. As a result, they, together with the Nephites that were defending that particular part of the country, succeeded in overthrowing the Lamanite army. These boys were referred to by Helaman as his "sons" and he called them his "striplings," for they were youngsters. He tells of the battles they fought with such valor and fearlessness that they frightened the men of the enemy and drove them away. In the last terrible battle that was fought, the ground was covered with dead and dying and Helaman hastened to have his boys gathered from among them. When they were brought in and were counted, it was found that every one had been wounded, two hundred had fainted from the loss of blood, but all were alive. Helaman asked how this could be. And then these youths explained to him that their mothers had taught them to believe in God. They trained them in the faith, and had brought them up to know there was a power greater than that of man. When he asked them how they could have such faith, they answered simply, "We do not doubt our mothers knew it." The faith of those mothers had been planted in the hearts of the sons, and there was nothing that could stop them as long as they were doing what they knew God wanted them to do Teach the Children Righteousness
So I say to you, my sisters, the wonderful gift God has given you of a home life in civilization and the opportunities and blessings of the gospel in this dispensation, should inspire you as mothers to train your children from infancy so that as they develop and become exposed to the dangers of life, they will believe that you have known what was best for them, and they, too, will be able to say, when they have made a success of life, that it was because they have followed your teachings and your fine example; and when people will ask them how they could do it, they will say of you, "We did what our mothers wanted us to do, and we knew that they knew best." That is your privilege. Teach your daughters modesty and virtue; teach your sons to be faithful and good, wholesome and true; teach all that you come in contact with to keep their bodies sacred as the tabernacles of their spirits. If we can keep that in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints and go on in the future as we have done in the past, all the world will yet praise Zion and her people. And the Relief Society organization that will have functioned all the way in blessing mankind will not only be praised by men and women everywhere, but they will receive their blessing from the Lord. If you do your part, this glorious welcome will await you when life's labors are complete. "Well done, good and faithful child, you have been faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things; enter into the joy of your Lord."
Riches of Relief Society
I pray that the prospect of a headquarters of your own may soon be realized, not for a hundred thousand members only, but many more. See to it that you will not only have a hundred thousand women or two hundred thousand women enrolled, but see that every one in this organization will in every way be worthy to be called daughters of the Lord. That is your privilege and you should exercise your influence for righteousness always. If it were not for the influence and virtue of womankind, this world would travel the downward road mighty fast. You must work to save it. The men have never succeeded without your help, and so, set your own homes in order. Honor your fathers and mothers, respect and love your husbands and your children, love one another.
After a while, when the summons shall reach us and we look back upon the experiences of a rich, wellspent life, many of you will be able to say, "Because of my membership in the organization that God set up through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the organization known as the Relief Society, I have had many riches added to my life that I could never have known in any other way."
I pray that the Lord will bless your Presidency, that they may go forward under his inspiration directing the General Board that works with them, and all these stake presidencies and boards and ward presidencies, and every member. Keep in mind always that these bodies are sacred to our Heavenly Father, and like Daniel of old, when they wanted him to take into his body the (Concluded on page 783) THE MATTHEW COWLEY FAMILY