[One September — Chapter 1 by Ezra J. Poulsen]

September Ezra J. Poulsen CHAPTER 1 OU never know what goes on inside a woman's pretty head. That's why Daphne Sommers was so baffling to everyone when she returned to Knowlton after an absence of ten years. 'Though she was barely thirty, her hair was almost white. In every other way, however, she was as youthful as ever. Her smooth, oval cheeks were full of bloom; her step was vibrant; and her voice had the same golden melody as when she was twenty. Then, there remained the old flare of impudence in her manner. She seemed to be defying the rumors that she'd lived a gay, reckless life in the city.
Being merely the home-town boy whom she'd jilted in search of a more glamorous romance, I might be expected to be a trifle confused. It turned out to be worse than that —I was uncomfortable and afraid. It was unpleasant to have my friends looking down their noses at me again; and, frankly, I began thinking the town wasn't big enough for the two of us.
Sometimes thwarted love makes you feel that way—less afraid of death itself than the possibility of being hurt the second time. Nevertheless, as president and cashier of the bank, I was too busy to entertain any foolish notions of running away. So Daphne just breezed in, took over the big house left vacant by the death of her father, and began to be very much in evidence. 'This would have been less disturbing if she had been difPage 584 ferent, but she was one of those people whose presence creates a new center of gravity—you must either be drawn into the vortex surrounding their personalities, or stay far enough away to be attracted toward some other pole. In a town as small as Knowlton, the latter was quite impossible. "You see, I'm quite an old woman,' she laughed, greeting her friends. "My hair is white. But I haven't reached December yet, only September—white September." She laughed this off very easily. It was her way. "We like your hair." "You look wonderful."
These were stock answers, especially with the younger set with whom she quickly became very popular. The boys gathered around her like moths around a lamp, to enjoy her wit and gaiety, and to learn from her stock of scintillating, worldly lore. 'This created talk and suspicion in other quarters, but not - among the younger girls, who admired her hair, her clothes, her inexhaustible glamor. "Oh, she's grand," sighed Mollie Dangerfield, her niece. It was natural for Mollie to adore her, for half the town had already declared she was the image of her Aunt Daphne, even to the extent of following in her flirtatious footsteps. | At best, Mollie's fiance, 'Tom Andrews, was playing an uneasy role.
Mollie was at the moment carrying on a secondary romance with ~WHITE SEPTEMBER Paul Ebberly, who spent his sum- -mers at the resort on Bear Lake, as well as giving encouragement to several other local boys. 'Tom was my assistant at the bank. I could easily see he was going through exactly what I'd once suffered with Daphne. And now, with Mollie's irresponsible, adorable auntie back, I thought he could expect things to grow steadily worse. APHNE''S first party was a grand affair. Old Bill Sommers' big Georgian house hadn't looked so dressed up in years. A decorator and a caterer came up from the city, and fresh-cut flowers were shipped in for corsages. We're a trifle behind on such matters in Knowlton.
Several carloads of young folks, friends of Daphne's, also came from the city. Paul Ebberly was there, as well as Tom Andrews. Mollie, dressed in a cream-colored evening gown of flowered organdy over taffeta, and looking almost as light and airy as a butterfly on a summer afternoon, danced and flirted to her heart's content. 'The event was a rather trying one for me. I couldn't be so rude as to refuse the invitation altogether, especially when everyone else was going, and I was sure my presence there would be regarded as evidence that I had outgrown my youthful disappointment. But I hovered in the outer edge of events, keeping in the shadows as much as possible, though circumstances required me to become an active participant once or twice.
Even then, I avoided Daphne, "or met her with cool formality, and "she paid only the most casual attention to me.
Next morning, I was at my desk 585 when Tom came in with a haggard, washed-out expression on his face. "Well," he said miserably, after greeting me, "I guess it's all over between Mollie and me. I took my tring back last night." He dropped into his chair and drummed his fingers on his desk, letting his tall, angular form sag lifelessly, and his gray, deep-set eyes wander over my shoulder. "I'm leaving Knowlton." "Oh, now, Tom, don't talk like that. We need you here." I was a trifle alarmed, but felt capable of giving him some good advice right out of my own book of experience. "Whatever you do, don't let a love affair destroy your career. I've been through the same thing. I know how you feel. But—but I—" | Just then the street door opened, and in walked Daphne, dressed in a chic black suit, and a hat set off with a small white feather. She smiled winningly and _ walked straight up to the railing in front of me. G, wae morning, Jim," she greeted., "Good morning." I felt like a boy caught in the act of stealing jam. The temperature seemed to rise ten degrees. But, leaning back in my chair, I looked at her cautiously. I knew her presence was a challenge, and accepted it as such.
There was a flood of memories, even after ten years, and I had to be on my guard, knowing Daphne was scheming something. "Jim, may I see you alone—about a matter of business?" "Certainly." I opened the door of my private consultation room, and invited her in.
When we were seated on opposite sides of the table, I waited. 586 "Jim, I want to borrow three thousand dollars," she said evenly. "T'm going to send Mollie to Europe this summer.
Poor child, she's hardly even been out of this poky little place, and it's about time she saw something of life." It was easy to see Daphne was under a strain in spite of her composure. I knew she was smart enough to see how foolish this proposition sounded to the ears of a banker. "You can have a mortgage on the old home for security," she proposed impatiently, as if I'd already refused her. "I have some property in the city up for sale, too. I'll pay the loan off as soon as the sale goes through." ILL Sommers' home was perfectly good security. But I felt as if Bill would turn over in his grave in protest against this plan to throw away his home in order to send his already spoiled granddaughter on an unnecessary trip. Canny Scot that he was, he'd often opposed his wife's rather extravagant concern about the social future of his children. He'd come from Europe himself, and experienced its hardships and lack of opportunity. No one in Knowlton had ever heard him express a desire to return to the old world, even for a visit; but many had heard him praise the goodness and abundance of America. | For the first time, I tried to look straight into Daphne's deep, restless eyes, but she hid them behind her long, silken lashes.
Then my eyes fell upon her lovely hair. Somehow, it gave her an exotic, sophisticated beauty. In spite of its whitish  cast, it seemed warm and alluring; yet, knowing Daphne's temperament, I couldn't understand her failure to dye it. Then, a train of memories began. HE Sommers house stood on the - brow of the hill on the west side of town, where it commanded. A broad view of the valley.
From childhood I'd loved the place, running across the street from my own much smaller home on the lower side of the hill whenever I had an opportunity.
There was always a thrill in going through the tall picket gate, and up the broad flagstone walk bordered by a maze of shrubbery and flowers. I could always be sure the beautiful Mrs. Sommers, whose hair reminded me of Martha Washington's, would load me with cookies and let me play with her little daughter Daphne. Later, it became a habit to call for Daphne on my way to school. And, as we grew up to high school age and attended the academy on the hill, I made it a practice to carry her books up the snowbound trail leading along the lane back of the Sommers house up to the academy. The boys sometimes teased me, and finally gave me so much competition I was frequently left out; but I remained devoted, though Daphne was beginning to show a restless interest in others of the masculine sex. But I still haunted the Sommers house. On summer afternoons I often slipped over and played tennis with Daphne on the clay court at the rear of the lot, when her other admirers were absent. I helped Mrs.
Sommers cultivate her flower beds, I cut the lawn, I ran errands. WHITE SEPTEMBER But what cut me to heart at the moment was my recollection of the time I first declared my love to Daphne. We were strolling up the front path on a Sunday afternoon. I picked a sprig of lilac and placed it in her hair. "This blossom will die, but my love never will," I insisted. "Beautifully said, Jim," she murmured. "But you may want to take it back. My hair will fade very early, just like mother's." "Then it will be more lovely than ever," I cried, giving her an experimental kiss.
When we arrived at the house, I playfully cut a strand of her rich brown hair and placed it inside the glass covering her graduation picture, which hung in the broad, paneled hall back of the stairway. * x % UNV ELL, don't you think the security's good enough?" demanded the Daphne of the present from across the table. I stared guiltily. "Oh, er, yes, very good. You may have the money. We'll get the papers fixed up at once." My heart sank, for I didn't think she'd be able to redeem the place. As for her having property in the city, I didn't believe it, knowing her father had often sent her money while he lived.
Daphne arose with a smile of relief, which reminded me I had quite overlooked the impatient tensity with which she'd been waiting. "You bankers are so terrifying," she reproved. "You seem to look right through one as if you suspected some dark plot to steal your money." "Tm sorry," I said, realizing my cheeks were burning. 587 "Thanks, Jim. You won't regret it. But you do think I'm foolish, don't you?" "Frankly, yes," I admitted. "Oh, well, I'm doing it for Mollie. It's to be her part of the estate, and I want her to have it now while it will do her some good." "You'll ruin Mollie." I said this against my will—bitterly.
This caught her off guard, but she rallied quickly, much to my discomfort. "That isn't what I want to do." She turned to go, and, with a flash of spirit, added over her shoulder, "You're still a small town boy, aren't you, Jim?" | On her way out, she spoke to Tom, as if nothing had happened between him and Mollie; then, with an impudent, triumphant little toss of her head, she left the bank. The mere fact of breaking up a fine young couple like Tom and Mollie appeared to be a trivial detail in her plans. Instantly, I was furious, then frantic. I started to rush toward the door to call her back and tell her she couldn't have the money, but stopped helplessly as she glided past the window outside.
What a fool I was, I reflected, to let her make me a tool for her purpose of ruining 'Tom. I was sure she was bent on doing to him just what she'd done to me—all to satisfy her ambition and love of display. How could one with such a lovable exterior be so utterly ruthless, I gasped, almost aloud. I must do something, I must!
This thought seared its _ way through my brain like a streak of fire, yet when I turned to Tom, I realized I was incapable of advising him. (To be continued ) 
588 
Hal Rumel HARVEST FIELD JLearned by[ uieart
Elizoheth Waters
When I have memorized the lines
Of mountains rising to the sun,
And learned by heart the sound of pines,
And all the ways that rivers run,
I still shall not remember quite
The spell that on this valley lies,
When autumn turns its wheat fields white
And high at night the wild goose flies.
The hills are brown, and gold the trees;
I shall recall, when far away,
Each trivial detail of these,
Yet grieve to half forget this day.

An Apple for the Teacher
Lydia Bennett Egbert
MRS. Bently had just finished ''It isn't fair to tempt children, anyher breakfast dishes. She way." dried her hands and drew But there was a cake to bake for aside the crisp ruffled curtain from the cooked-food sale, cookies for the the window to watch the school children's party, and peaches to can children surging by, and yearned for Mrs. Adams, not to mention a a little when she recalled the years dozen other odd jobs. There was when her own had been among the no time left in which to pick the happy throng on that always excit- apples that day. able, first day of school. Perhaps it was curiosity that took
'Td better pick them soon," she the sill of the window and watched mused, smiling to herself, while her with interest,
They may find their way to the hanging branch had made its imteacher s desk. pression, for now the boy had no A small boy rounded the corner trouble in spotting it immediately, at that moment, and paused be- and with hands in his pockets he neath the branch holding the big, stood with eyes fixed upon the red apple, upon which her eyes rest- bright object above him.
For a long moment the boy stood hadn't been easy, either. They had gazing at the apple, then ran swift- had no apple tree growing in their ly on his way. back yard then, and fresh fruits
'Til pick the apples today," she had been a rare treat for them in decided, turning from the window, winter. The "depression" had been Page 589

590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER 1950 at its peak, and Tom had worked For special reasons, Mrs. Bently only part time. Feeding a family made no attempt to pick her apand making ends meet was a prob- pies that day. The next morning lem, indeed. But, even so, they had her dishes were left standing in the been happy. She had Tom then, sink later than usual, while in the They found joy in scheming and back yard she busied herself among planning together, she and Tom. her flower beds, picking the bright
And their two beloved children had blooms and arranging them in a given them many a moment of silver-trimmed wicker basket, laughter and thrills. "Good morning. Sonny," she called casually, as the object of her
CHE blinked her eyes to release curiosity came into view and made an unwelcome tear and the smile his usual stop beneath the apple that flickered across her face chased tree. "A little late this morning, it on down to rest on the bosom of aren't you?" her fresh gingham dress. She was The boy jumped in surprise and reminded of the time when Polly turned to face her. ''G— good morncame home with a beautiful rosy ing. Ma'am," he stammered. "Yes, apple, a reward for helping the Vm always a little late, but I make teacher straighten up after school, it before the bell rings." But his and proudly placed it on the shelf mind was not to be distracted for of the cupboard for Daddy's lunch, long from his main interest. "Are
And small brother Phil, on his way these your apples. Ma'am?" he out the next morning, innocently, asked, turning abruptly and again had collected it^ and for the second casting his eyes upward, time it found its way to the teach- "Why, yes. Would you like to er's desk. She and Tom had laughed take that big, red one to your teachand joked about it, but Polly never er?" knew. The boy's face lighted up and With a deep sigh of tenderness, his voice quivered with excitement.
Mrs. Bently laid aside her golden "Oh, yes. Ma'am. I'd sure like thoughts again to concentrate upon to take an apple to the teacher. But the little stranger within her gaze, —but," he continued, his tones sud-
"He's looking so wistfully! Bless denly lowering and his mood growhis dear heart! I'll call to him that ing serious, "it— it was Nancy I was it's all right to take the apple." Un- really thinking about." consciously, she spoke aloud. Then, Mrs. Bently detected the note of as a small hand reached upward, seriousness in his voice and spoke she began censuring herself for hav- softly, "Is Nancy your baby sister?" ing waited so long to allow the first "Well, Nancy isn't really a baby, seed of temptation to be sown in Ma'am. She's almost as old as me, the young heart. But a moment but she's been sick for a long time later she stood amazed, realizing and has to stay in bed, and I sort that the child had only smoothed of look out for her." the apple carefully, before taking "I'm very sorry your sister is sick," to his heels to make up for lost she answered, sympathetically. "But time. I m ust say she's a lucky little girl

AN APPLE FOR THE TEACHER
591 to have a brother who looks after her. What is your name, and where do you hve?"
"My name's Jimmy Mason, and I hve over by the mill in that old house without any paint. Mom says maybe when I get old enough to help out we can have a better house."
''What about your Daddy?"
"Oh, my Dad's dead. We had a better house before he died, but Mom couldn't make enough to pay so much rent, so we had to move."
"Your mother works, then?"
"Yes, she goes to work at night, after me and Nancy's asleep, and don't get home till nearly eightthirty in the morning. That's why I always come late to school."
"Do you have any relatives or friends near?"
"No, my aunt and uncle used to live here, but they moved away right after Dad died and we don't have anybody now. Mom says she don't have time to find friends and, anyway, she says our house is too shabby and nobody'd want to come there."
"It isn't so much the house that counts, Jimmy, it's the people who live in it. But perhaps you'd better run along now," she suggested kindly, "or you may not make it this time before the bell rings."
"Oh, gee, yes, I almost forgot . . ."
His words faded; he ran swiftly on and vanished from sight at the next corner.
Gathering the basket of flowers in her arms, Mrs. Bently made her way across the green stretch to the house and into the living room. She arranged the basket at the foot of the mantel and sank, for a few moments, into the easy chair beside her, before beginning her day's routine. As she looked about the cheery, well-furnished room, a feeling of gratitude swept over her, and she wished that all those less fortunate might enjoy the same comforts.
Tom had left her a good home; with the insurance and other securities, she was amply provided for.
True, Tom's death, and then the children's marrying and settling in distant towns, had left her lonely.
But it was not for long. With so much to be done in the world, one could not lose herself to grief and loneliness for any length of time.
"There's enough happiness in the world for everybody, and life is kind to those who search for it," she repeated to herself. as she motioned the boy toward her.
"Have you a few moments to spare,
Jimmy?"
"Yes, Ma'am, I think I have. The teacher let us out early this afternoon." He came near and paused outside the fence.
Mrs. Bently unlocked the gate and pushed it ajar. "Come inside.
Are you a good climber, Jimmy?
I'd like to get you to help me pick my apples."
The boy's face beamed as he slid through the gate. "Oh, gee!
I'd like to help you pick your apples, Ma'am. I'm used to chmbin' trees. I climb the big ones over by our house and Nancy watches me through the window." He straightened his shoulders proudly and shoved both hands in his pockets.
{Continued on page 642)

Sixty LJears Kyigo
Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September i, and September 15, 1890
"For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations"
JOHN HOWARD PAYNE: The music of the future may be enriched by the products of men of more genius, learning, and wisdom than those of today, but it is safe to say that so long as the world stands there will never again be produced a song that will so universally touch the human heart as "Home, Sweet Home." The most notable rendition of "Home, Sweet Home" of which there is any account, was probably at the Jenny Lind concert in Washington on the night of December 17, 1850. John
Howard Payne was present, and the quarter of an hour during which he listened to THE SONG OF THE SEA
The song of the sea was an ancient song
In the days when the earth was young;
The waves were gossiping loud and long
Ere mortals had found a tongue.
The heart of the waves with wrath was wrung,
Or soothed to a siren strain.
As they tossed the primitive isles among
Or slept in the ocean main.
Such was the song and its changes free,
Such was the song of the sea.
— Richard E. Burton
OUR COUNTRY
Our thought of thee is glad with hope
Dear country of our love and prayers;
Thy way is down no fatal slope.
But up to freer sun and airs.
With peace that comes of purity.
And strength to simple justice due;
So runs our loyal dream of thee:
God of our fathersi make it true.
—J. G. Whittier
HUNTER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY: Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of being present at the first organizations of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and of being intimately acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and testified that all the principles he taught were true, and would benefit the human family. Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the grand results achieved through the organization of women, also upon true charity, and the disposition to look upon the bright side, referred to the days of famine and of sickness, the trials of the Saints in Nauvoo and in Winter Quarters and thought for many reasons we ought to be grateful notwithstanding the persecutions of the present time, for the