[Vol37 | September 1950 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: 593 Editorial: Voting Is Our Responsibility | Author: Vesta P. Crawford]
responsibility given it by the General Authorities to encourage all Latter-day Saint families to experience the joys and_ satisfactions which come from planned and regularly held Family Hours. The other auxiliaries of the Church, representing different age groups in our families, have joined with the Relief Society in helping to establish and further this Family Hour program. Those families which regularly participate in this program know the extent of individual development and the unity and happiness this activity brings. For example, many parents have had experiences similar to that of one Salt Lake City family of eight members, including six small children, who organized their group on a corporation basis, with each member acting as a stockholder. This family group meets on a scheduled evening twice each month to discuss family affairs and to enjoy the association of one another. At one meeting, the discussion centered around an important event soon to take place—the addition of a new member to the family. The group discussed the expected new arrival, and each member volunteered the help he or she would provide. 'The event was looked forward to with great joy and anticipation and, when the beautiful new baby girl was born, each member of the family sensed a feeling of individual ownership and pride, and the joy experienced in participation went far to establish a firm foundation for solidarity and unity in that family. Thoughtful parents have an abiding interest in the spiritual, intel- 581 lectual, and social growth of their children. Individual participation in regularly held Family Hours can do much to stimulate this growth. It is generally agreed among eminent psychologists that one reason small children often attempt to "showoff," and are difficult to handle in the presence of company, is because their parents have failed to give them ample opportunity to express themselves in normal family relationships. The Family Hour, if properly planned and conducted, can serve as one of the best possible means of encouraging this self-expression. Some Methods of Conducting Family Hours Parents who have the greatest success with their Family Hours do not think of them as regimented or stilted formal meetings. Rather, they use the Family Hour as a means of getting their children together for the purpose of discussing family plans and problems, of socializing as a family group, of organizing special family study programs, of learning more about the gospel, and of developing the art of self-expression. Some specific activities which contribute to successful Family Hour programs include: An evening of good music. Each member contributes with his own talents or with playing favorite records, and with group singing of selected songs and hymns. An evening of games. Most family members, young, or old, enjoy games in which all can participate. To be most effective, these should be planned in advance for maximum variety and group interest. An evening of enjoyable reading. In this activity, reading should 582 be aloud, with as many of the group members as possible participating. Books to be read should be selected wisely for maximum interest and intellectual and spiritual development. This is an excellent opportunity for enjoyment and enlightenment from reading the scriptures. An evening of planned discussion. For subject matter, current articles from Church publications, including The Reliet Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Instructor, The Children's Friend and the "Church Section" of The Deseret News, might be used. A variety of interesting discussion topics can be decided upon by the group. An evening of reminiscing. Extremely interesting Family Hour periods can be built around missionary experiences of father, mother, son, or daughter, and courtship experiences, and other — events. A stimulating evening can grow out of "my most interesting experience" related by each member of the group. A picnic or outing can be effectively used as a part of the Family Hour program. These outside activities can add variety to the family gathering and can do much to hold the group together. HESE are only a few of the many activities which can be employed to make Family Hours appealing and stimulating. Organized family groups will find other ways to develop interesting self-expression: There are, however, four fundamentals which every thoughtful parent will strive to make a part of the Family Hour program. These are: 1.

---

This is subter- EDITORIAL fuge, for the total vote is made up of individual ballots, and each vote expresses the sovereign will of an individual, and is as important as any other vote. Another excuse may be that we are not acquainted with the people whose names are on the ballots. There are many ways of finding out about these people. If we have been alert to civic affairs, we shall probably already know something of the records of the men and women who are seeking re-election. If we know nothing of the new names appearing, we should find out before election day what type of people these candidates are, and what principles they may be expected to support. One way to find this out is to learn of their affiliations with various social, educational, cultural, and civic groups. It is helpful to ask the advice of reputable people who personally know the candidates. The voter who realizes the importance 595 of her civic responsibility may wish to attend meetings at which the candidates speak, or she may wish, in local cases, where this is feasible, to talk personally with the man, or woman who is to represent her in the all-important work of government. Ability and integrity are qualities that we should demand in our representatives. 'Their attitude toward our