[Vol37 | September 1950 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: 646 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: "Death and Burial" and "In the Realm of Departed Spirits" | Author: Don B. Colton]
LESSON  ^^JBi  department 
Q/heologq — The  Life  and  Ministry  of  the  Savior 
Lesson  27— ''Death  and  Burial"  and  ''In  the  Realm  of  Disembodied  Spirits" 
Elder  Don  B.  Colton 
(Reference:  /esus  the  Christ,  by  Elder  James  E.  Talmage,  chapters  35,  36.) 
For  Tuesday,  December  5,  1950 
Objective:  To  show  more  of  the  love  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  who  suf- 
fered and  died  that  mankind  might  be  saved;  and  that  this  salvation  includes  both  the 
living  and  the  dead. 
On  the  Way  to  Calvary  paid  no  attention.  However,  he  was 
The  previous  lesson  closed  with  touched  by  the  sympathizing  cries 
the  condemned  Lord  in  the  custody  of  some  women  who  were  watching 
of  a  group  of  Roman  soldiers  who  the  procession.  Turning  to  them, 
had  been  instructed  to  take  him  he  said:  ''Daughters  of  Jerusalem, 
out  and  crucify  him.  Two  criminals  weep  not  for  me,  but  weep  for 
who  had  been  regularly  convicted  yourselves,  and  for  your  children." 
and  sentenced  to  die  on  the  cross  In  kindness,  he  told  them  of  the 
were  led  to  the  same  place  to  be  terrible  things  that  would  come  up- 
executed  at  the  same  time.  A  mot-  on  them.  All  of  the  prophecies  he 
ley  crowd  followed  the  procession.  uttered  had  literal  and  painful  ful- 
The  law  required  that  the  con-  fiUment.  (For  the  prophecy,  see 
demned  person  should  carry  the  Luke  23:28-31.)  The  details  of  the 
cross  on  which  he  was  to  be  exe-  fulfillment  of  this  prophecy  are 
cuted.  The  terrible  ordeals  through  gruesome  indeed  (text,  note  2, 
which  Jesus  had  passed,  including  page  666).  It  is  worthy  of  note 
the  agony  in  Gethsemane,  the  that  on  that  trip  to  Golgotha,  or 
scourging  ordered  by  Pilate,  and  the  Calvary,  the  Sufferer  thought  of 
fearful  sufferings  endured  by  reason  others.  It  was  a  voice  of  warning 
of  the  cruel  treatment  by  the  Ro-  raised  to  those  women  who  would 
man  soldiers  and  others,  had  so  listen, 
weakened  the  Lord  that  the  cross 
was  almost  greater  than  he  could  The  Crucifixion 
carry.  He  moved  slowly.  Finally  Prior  to  the  actual  crucifixion, 
the  soldiers  drafted  a  passerby.  Si-  Jesus  was  offered  a  narcotic  draught 
mon  of  Gyrene,  and  made  him  which  would  deaden  the  sensibility 
carry  the  cross.  of  the  sufferer,  but  he  refused  to 
Most  of  the  onlookers  were  mock-  take  it.  He  was  now  to  make  the 
ing  and  deriding  and  to  them  Jesus  great  sacrifice  for  the  sins  of  the 
Pag€  625