[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" JOHN HOWARD PAYNE: The music of the future may be enriched by the products of men of more genius, learning, and wisdom than those of today, but it is safe to say that so long as the world stands there will never again be produced a song that will so universally touch the human heart as "Home, Sweet Home." 'The most notable rendition of "Home, Sweet Home" of which there is any account, was probably at the Jenny Lind concert in Washington on the night of December 17, 1850. John Howard Payne was present, and the quarter of an hour during which he listened to Jenny Lind's singing of this ballad—which has since been heard in all lands—was without doubt the most thrilling fifteen minutes of his life. —Hearth and Hall THE SONG OF THE SEA The song of the sea was an ancient song In the days when the earth was young; The waves were gossiping loud and long Ere mortals had found a tongue. The heart of the waves with wrath was wrung, Or soothed to a siren strain, As they tossed the primitive isles among Or slept in the ocean main.
Such was the song and its changes free, Such was the song of the sea. —Richard E. Burton OUR COUNTRY Our thought of thee is glad with hope Dear country of our love and prayers; Thy way is down no fatal slope, But up to freer sun and airs.
With peace that comes of purity, And strength to simple justice due; So runs our loyal dream of thee: God of our fathers!
Make it true. —J. G. Whittier ~HUNTER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY: Counselor B. W.
Smith spoke of being present at the first organizations of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and of being intimately acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and testified that all the principles he taught were true, and would benefit the human family. Sister E. B.
Wells spoke upon the grand results achieved through the organization of women, also upon true charity, and the disposition to look upon the bright side, referred to the days of famine and of sickness, the trials of the Saints in Nauvoo and in Winter Quarters and thought for many reasons we ought to be grateful notwithstanding the persecutions of the present time, for the Lord had greatly prospered us in these valleys.  OST of the winners in the League of Utah Writers contests this year are contributors to The Relief Society Magazine.
Included are Olive W. Burt, who won first place in the short story and first in the juvenile story; Rosa Lee Lloyd, who placed second in the short story; Anna Prince Redd, with second place in the article; Christie Lund Coles and Dorothy Roberts who placed first and second in poetry; Sarah Moss and Mabel Harmer, who received second and third places in the juvenile story. RS. LeROY McBRIDE, of Hytum, Utah, herself housebound for eleven years, organized in Utah the state-wide campaign for observance of Shut-in's Day. It was held on the first Sunday in June, when shut-ins were to be remembered with visits, letters, flowers, homemade delicacies, or other thoughtful expressions. She won the co-operation of Governor Lee, of many mayors, newspapers, women's clubs, radio, and church officials. Her efforts won her the third prize of the national Rhoda Corwin Pickens annual award for successful organizing for Shut-in's Day. ONE of the oldest books on our American Continent, the Popal Vuh (book of the people), which Ramona W. Cannon preserves historical facts, legends, religious tenets, and the customs of the Quiche Maya Indians, has now been made available in English for the first time through a translation from Spanish made by Delia Goetz, an authority on Latin American languages, history, and tradition, and Sylvanus G. Morley, another scholar. They translated it from the Spanish of Adrian Recinos, who, in turn, had translated it from a copy in Latin characters but in the Mayan language made by Father Ximenez, an early Guatemalan priest, from a similar copy written in the middle of the sixteenth century by an educated Indian. The Indian's copy was lost. Fortunately,
Father Ximinez's copy remained.
This is a most important original source for students of early American Indian culture.
TINNY LEE NELSON, of Salt
^ Lake City, married to V.
Douglas Snow, recently won a prize of $500 in a textile design contest sponsored by the Moss
Rose Manufacturing Company of New York. Her young husband has won a Fulbright scholarship to study art in Italy this year. While he works, she will continue studying, specializing in Italian textiles and ceramic designs.
Page 593

EDITORIAL
VOL. 37 SEPTEMBER 1950 NO. 9 jyi ANY women whose grandmoth- permit weak men and wicked men ers and great-grandmothers to attain high office, we can no worked earnestly for the privilege of longer control our destinies. Power, voting have become indifferent to in the hands of the ambitious and their responsibilities. Only a small the ungodly, can and will enslave percentage of women vote in their individuals and destroy nations, city, state, and national elections. As Latter-day Saint women, we
They fail to realize that the per- have a particular responsibility topetuation of liberty and our right to ward government. We know that choose our rulers, our religion, our freedom of conscience and "life, work, and our place of residence, all liberty, and the pursuit of happiare in grave jeopardy, from deter- ness" are inherent rights, and that mined and organized opposition our Constitution, which upholds both within our own country and these rights, was established under from possible foreign intervention, the inspiration of God. In words of In this time of rapid change, with simplicity and strength, we have the dark shadow of regimentation been instructed and we know that and autocratic rule spreading ever "that which is governed by law is wider across the world, no man, and also preserved by law." no woman, who has the precious Section 134 of the Doctrine and right to vote, can be excused for Covenants, which deals with "Govnot exercising this most important ernment and Laws in General," responsibility, upon which so much specifically points out that we depends. should use our influence to see that Many of the privileges and op- our public officials are "such as will portunities most dear to us as Lat- administer the law in equity and ter-day Saint women might become justice." non-existent if we, and others, fail Are we accepting and magnifying to exercise our votes and retain this high and important duty? As that liberty which is God-given. It election day approaches, do we make would be easy to lose our right to sure that we are qualified to be votrear our children in the way of the ers and, when election day arrives, gospel, to lose even the opportunity are we too busy or too indifferent of holding Church services and re- to perform that great responsibility taining our Church organization, upon which nearly all the other
It would be easy to allow our in- phases of our lives depend? stitutions of government to become Perhaps the most common exinstruments of oppression, regi- cuse for failing to vote is that one men ting every phase of life. If we vote is unimportant. This is subter-
Page 594

EDITORIAL 595 fuge, for the total vote is made up of her civic responsibility may wish of individual ballots, and each vote to attend meetings at which the expresses the sovereign will of an in- candidates speak, or she may wish, dividual, and is as important as any in local cases, where this is feasible, other vote. to talk personally with the man,
Another excuse may be that we or woman who is to represent her are not acquainted with the people in the all-important work of governwhose names are on the ballots, ment.
There are many ways of finding out Ability and integrity are qualities about these people. If we have been that we should demand in our repalert to civic affairs, we shall prob- resentatives. Their attitude toward ably already know something of the our Constitution and toward law enrecords of the men and women who forcement is paramount. Their dediare seeking re-election. If we know cation to high ideals and their earnnothing of the new names appear- estness of purpose should be careing, we should find out before elec- fully considered, tion day what type of people these Freedom and liberty are easy to candidates are, and what principles los e, but their regaining is always they may be expected to support, difficult, sometimes impossible. If
One way to find this out is to learn we lose our heritage of individual of their affiliations with various so- choice, we are ourselves at fault, cial, educational, cultural, and civic and ours is the guilt, unless we maggroups. It is helpful to ask the ad- nify our privilege as voters and revice of reputable people who per- main ever alert to the great responsonally know the candidates. The sibility of self-government, voter who realizes the importance —V. P. C.
Co/or of ^yCutumn
Beatrice K. Ekman
Below the mountain road the farms have spread
A colored pattern. Autumn has begun,
And native currant bushes have turned red.
Brown cockleburs, made brittle by the sun,
Sound harsh rustlings by the road, as wind shifts
Veils of dust across their sharpened edges.
From crumpled milkweed pods, soft, white down drifts
To the brown pastures and tawny sedges.
Loosed from their anchored roots, the tumbleweeds
Drift with the wind, light, silent ghosts at play;
Sowing, as they drift, their spiny seeds
Across the fields and prairies faraway.
Wind weaves smoke through September grasses
And purple haze veils the mountain passes. . .
The languorous summer is done.

O^JtSiiu TO THE FIELD
Jranuai Q^enerai [Relief Society (conference
'T^HE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 27 and 28, 1950. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Society and the public are invited. The attendance at the meetings
Wednesday and Thursday mornings is limited to stake and mission officers.
(Bulling cJextvooRS for [Relief Societii oLessons
"pROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons.
The education counselor in both the stake and the ward should present to the president of the respective organization a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library.
Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase the textbook: 1. in order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. to be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook.
Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books.
Unfiuence
Josephine J. Harvey
Some of us who walk the earth
Are bound by feet of clay,
But when you looked at me and smiled,
I walked on clouds all day.
Page 596

(cypportumtif
Elaine Mellor, R.NB.S.
Director, Practical Nursing, Salt Lake Area Vocational School
((T)LEASE—Help us End a Practical Nurse." How often has this M plea been heard— and gone unanswered? Nursing registries frequently have such calls as this and are unable to help. It is the age-old problem, demand greater than supply.
There is a need for more people to enter this field. The demand for nursing service is growing steadily and cannot adequately be filled by the number of registered nurses now on duty or in training.
''What is a Pmctical Nuise?'' Often we think of a practical nurse as a kindly person, perhaps a next-door neighbor, who has learned a ''way" around sick people by working with them. The need for practical nurses is now so acute that formal courses of instruction have been set up in various states, and these people are being educated for the work they do.
The people are assured of the right kind of nursing care because the Licensed Practical Nurse receives her title today only upon completion of this formal course of training after which she must pass a state examination.*
"What does a Practical Nurse do? The practical nurse learns to give complete bedside care, to make the patient comfortable. She learns techniques in preventing the spread of communicable diseases, how to amuse the convalescing child, how to care for the new mother and her baby.
Emphasis is placed upon the care of the patient in the home— preparation of the proper die t, and how to safely adapt improvised equipment to the needs of the patient.

The practical nurse should not be expected to care for critically or acutely ill patients. Her training does not prepare her to perform highly skilled treatments. She functions here as a valuable assistant to the professional staff by relieving them of nursing duties which do not require an extensive scientific background.

Practical Nursing offers a wonderful opportunity for many women who may be looking for a job with a future. There are opportunities for her to work in the home, in the doctor's office, and in other places where she works under the supervision of a licensed physician or a professional nurse.

"Who is eligible?" Any person between the ages of eighteen and fifty, in good physical condition, who enjoys working with people, and who would like to enter a well-paid, dignified lifetime vocation, may be considered as a possible applicant.

A list of approved Practical Nursing schools may be obtained by writing The National Association for Practical Nurse Education, 654 Madison Avenue, New York 21, N. Y. Information regarding an approved school in Utah may be obtained through your local nursing registry or by contacting the Salt Lake Area Vocational School, 431 South 6th East, Salt Lake City, Utah, or the Central Utah Vocational School, 1101 South University Avenue, Provo, Utah. Classes begin each September and March.