[Influence by Josephine J. Harvey]

influence to see that our public officials are "such as will administer the law in equity and justice." Are we accepting and magnifying this high and important duty? As election day approaches, do we make sure that we are qualified to be voters and, when election day arrives, are we too busy or too indifferent to perform that great responsibility upon which nearly all the other phases of our lives depend?
Perhaps the most common excuse for failing to vote is that one vote is unimportant.
This is subter- EDITORIAL fuge, for the total vote is made up of individual ballots, and each vote expresses the sovereign will of an individual, and is as important as any other vote.
Another excuse may be that we are not acquainted with the people whose names are on the ballots.
There are many ways of finding out about these people. If we have been alert to civic affairs, we shall probably already know something of the records of the men and women who are seeking re-election. If we know nothing of the new names appearing, we should find out before election day what type of people these candidates are, and what principles they may be expected to support. One way to find this out is to learn of their affiliations with various social, educational, cultural, and civic groups. It is helpful to ask the advice of reputable people who personally know the candidates. The voter who realizes the importance 595 of her civic responsibility may wish to attend meetings at which the candidates speak, or she may wish, in local cases, where this is feasible, to talk personally with the man, or woman who is to represent her in the all-important work of government.
Ability and integrity are qualities that we should demand in our representatives. 'Their attitude toward our Constitution and toward law enforcement is paramount.
Their dedication to high ideals and their earnestness of purpose should be care-.
Fully considered.
Freedom and liberty are easy to lose, but their regaining is always difficult, sometimes impossible. If we lose our heritage of individual choice, we are ourselves at fault, and ours is the guilt, unless we magnify our privilege as voters and remain ever alert to the great responsibility of self-government. —V. P. C. IP -— Color of Autumn Beatrice K. Ekman Below the mountain road the farms have spread A colored pattern.
Autumn has begun, And native currant bushes have turned red.
Brown cockleburs, made brittle by the sun, Sound harsh rustlings by the road, as wind shifts Veils of dust across their sharpened edges.
From crumpled milkweed pods, soft, white down drifts To the brown pastures and tawny sedges.
Loosed from their anchored roots, the tumbleweeds Drift with the wind, light, silent ghosts at play; Sowing, as they drift, their spiny seeds Across the fields and prairies faraway.
Wind weaves smoke through September grasses And purple haze veils the mountain passes... The languorous summer is done. No TO THE FIELD Annual General Relief Society Conference HE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 27 and 28, 1950. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Society and the public are invited. The attendance at the meetings Wednesday and Thursday mornings is limited to stake and mission officers. Buying Sextbooks for Relief Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and the ward should present to the president of the respective organization a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library.
Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it ls recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase the textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3.
Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook.
Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. * ¥ * Influence Josephine J]. Harvey Some of us who walk the earth Are bound by feet of clay, But when you looked at me and smiled, I walked on clouds all day., Page 596
She Practical Nlurse—A Tlew Opportunity Elaine Mellor, R. N. B. S. Director, Practical Nursing, Salt Lake Area Vocational School (CJ )LEASE—Help us find a Practical Nurse." How often has this plea been heard—and gone unanswered? Nursing registries frequently have such calls as this and are unable to help. It is the age-old problem, demand greater than supply. There is a need for more people to enter this field. 'The demand for nursing service is growing steadily and cannot adequately be filled by the number of registered nurses now on duty or in training. "What is a Practical Nurse?" Often we think of a practical nurse as a kindly person, perhaps a next-door neighbor, who has learned a "way" around sick people by working with them. The need for practical nurses is now so acute that formal courses of instruction have been set up in various states, and these people are being educated for the work they do. The people are assured of the right kind of nursing care because the Licensed Practical Nurse receives her title today only upon completion of this formal course of training after which she must pass a state examination.* "What does a Practical Nurse do? The practical nurse learns to give complete bedside care, to make the patient comfortable. She learns techniques in preventing the spread of communicable diseases, how to amuse the convalescing child, how to care for the new mother and her baby. Emphasis is placed upon the care of the patient in the home—preparation of the proper diet, and how to safely adapt improvised equipment to the needs of the patient. The practical nurse should not be expected to care for critically or acutely ill patients. Her training does not prepare her to perform highly skilled treatments. She functions here as a valuable assistant to the professional staff by relieving them of nursing duties which do not require an extensive scientific background. Practical Nursing offers a wonderful opportunity for many women who may be looking for a job with a future. There are opportunities for her to work in the home, in the doctor's office, and in other places where she works under the supervision of a licensed physician or a professional nurse. *A practical nurse is a person trained to care for subacute, convalescent, and chronic patients requiring nursing services at home or in an institution, who works under the direction of a licensed physician or a registered professional nurse, and who is prepared to give household assistance when necessary. A practical nurse may be employed by physicians, hospitals, custodial homes, public health agencies, industries, or by the lay public (National Association for Practical Nurse Education). Page 597 
598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 © "Who is eligible?" Any person between the ages of eighteen and fifty, in good physical condition, who enjoys working with people, and who would like to enter a well-paid, dignified lifetime vocation, may be considered as a possible applicant. A list of approved Practical Nursing schools may be obtained by writing The National Association for Practical Nurse Education, 654
Madison Avenue, New York 21, N. Y. Information regarding an approved school in Utah may be obtained through your local nursing registry or b contacting the Salt Lake Area Vocational School, 431
South 6th East, Salt Lake City, Utah, or the Central Utah Vocational School, 1101
South University Avenue, Provo, Utah.
Classes begin each September and March. She