[The Constitution of the United States by Grace M. Candland]

Constitution of the United States Grace M. Candland N September 17, 1787, one-hundred sixty-three years ago, a great and glorious event took place in Independence Hall at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was the ratification of our National Constitution, which, on that date, was signed by representatives of all except one of the thirteen original colonies.
This occasion marked the beginning of a new era, for the betterment and progress of mankind, in a land made ready for its marvelous destiny. It thereby continued to be a choice land, a blessed land, bearing the promise that it should be free from captivity or bondage or kingly rule, a land in which the inalienable rights of man might find their fullest exercise. The Constitution was to be the supreme law of this land, a guiding light unto a people who would love and honor it and appreciate its manifold blessings. It came not by chance. It was born out of the yearnings of the human heart. It grew out of the cradle of oppression, and the ever-burning desire of man's spirit to be free. It had to be won by blood and tears and sacrifice on the battlefield, and finally came into being, through the never-failing channel of prayer and contrition of great minds chosen for this mighty work, whom we honor as the founding fathers. The Constitution is a divinely inspired and, therefore, a sacred document, and any attempt to belittle it or disregard it, is most disturbing to the sincere and worthy citizen.
Those who would uproot this precious tree of liberty have no right to rest in its shade.
America should be proud to be the keeper of so great a trust, not only for herself, but for all the world. The Church possesses the keys of the kingdom, Latter-day Saints are the crusaders for living according to the principles established by Christ, and a stirring challenge now confronts us. Let us go forward, on the difficult road ahead, with faith and courage, blazing new trails up the mountainside, which shall open new vistas of co-operation and understanding, not in temporal things alone, but in things of the spirit, as well; not proudly nor arrogantly, but as good Samaritans, lifting and healing a bleeding and confused world, to the end that wars may be banished, and the inestimable rights and freedoms we enjoy be extended to suffering humanity.
This is America's destiny, but we may not achieve this high accomplishment unless we live righteously and fulfill the measure of the promise given to our Nation. ~ You Can Learn PART VI K Ys for Kathy and L Ys for Dire Katherine Kelly HE next April our daughter arrived, the baby girl I had dreamed about, who would love me better than anyone else in the world! She had so much black hair that we had to cut it to keep it out of her eyes. And her eyes— well, at first, her eyes were dark, but they would be blue. 'Tom's hair was dark and his eyes a clear, deep blue. Baby Kathy's would be just like his! Yes, we named her Kathy, that much she would be like me. But little Kathy wasn't so well. She didn't gain any weight. I was completely bewildered. Ernie, our boy, now three years old, had been so strong and hearty. It was just as _ though this world was his to enjoy from the day he was born, and later, I am sure he thought it was his to explore. Baby Kathy was different. She was like some lovely, fragile spirit from another world who just could not make up her mind whether she would stay or not. By the end of the second month she hadn't gained an ounce. By then it was June! One night, in desperation, we gave her two ounces of cow's milk diluted with four ounces of boiled water, like the baby-book said. She drank it all and went to sleep and slept till six o'clock the next morning! I was up every few minutes all night to be sure she was still breathing! When I told the doctor about it he was very dubious. "Katie, as I told you before, you can't start feeding a tiny baby on cow's milk in June, and you living on a farm where there is no refrigeration! You can try giving her a feeding each night when the milk is fresh, and maybe we can pull her through the summer. But, my dear, you mustn't feel too badly, maybe she wasn't intended for this world..." My darling not intended to be mine!
Those words only made me more determined. If cow's milk was what she needed, then cow's milk she should have. I would milk the cow every two hours if it was necessary!
Because she was so delicate, 'it was necessary at first. Our supply of hay was gone, and the first crop not yet ready, so each two hours I took my little pitcher, covered with sterile gauze, and fared forth down to the pasture to milk the Jersey cow. But it was so worthwhile. Little Kathy, who had been listless and waxy white, had gained four pounds!
This morning, as I finished her bath and laid her all clean and sweet in her little basket, I thrilled to see how she had filled out. Gratefully, I kissed the dimples on each tiny finger. I came back into the kitchen in time to save Ernie's teddy bear from the bath which it obviously needed, but for which it hadn't been made. I took Ernie with me out to pour the bath water on the burned spots in the lawn and to move Minnie, Page 599 600