Joseph Smith in the spring of 1820. All the missionaries and many of the Saints of the Eastern States mission were in attendance, so also were representatives from Utah and the West. President Heber J. Grant, President Rudger Clawson, and two members of the Council of Apostles were also present. President Brigham H. Roberts, of the Eastern States mission, had prepared an elaborate program, worked out in many details to cover topics dealing with the important events which had taken place at these historic places, anciently and in our own dispensation. This program, although departed from as occasion required, was carried through in a manner most impressive. Those who spoke and those who read entered into the spirit of the occasion with zeal and knowledge. Each topic was handled in a masterful manner, leaving impressions upon the assembled multitude that sank deep and touched their souls. Many strangers from the country round about were present at the several meetings. Some entered into the spirit of the meetings and were deeply moved by the sincerity and earnestness of the worshipers who had gathered at these shrines, as they were pleased to term them. None were observed who came to mock; if any came with such a spirit, most likely they remained to pray. The missionaries of the Eastern States mission came from their respective fields, from the borders of Canada on the north, Virginia on the south, and Ohio on the west, each carrying a pennant with the name "Cumorah" written on it. They travelled most of the way on foot, performing missionary labor as they journeyed, and advertising with their flying pennants the object of their pilgrimage. As I stood upon these sacred places I had peculiar feelings which I cannot describe. I always do have such feelings; I have visited the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove on other occasions. As I stood at the Smith home, I thought of the early struggles of the family, and wondered what means the Lord might have used to get them to move from Vermont or New Hampshire, if they had not been forced from those states by poverty. Their poverty was not the result of indolence, as the wicked have proclaimed, but the poverty and reverses of Providence, sent to give experience and to lead the family to a better land where the Lord could perform his work through the youthful Seer, yet to be raised up. When the Smith family arrived in Palmyra they immediately bargained for the purchase of one hundred acres of land. This is known today as the Joseph Smith Farm, and is in the possession of the Church. In that day the land was covered with a heavy growth of timber. This had to be removed before the land could be planted and crops raised to pay for the farm. As I stood upon this ground, I thought of the struggles this entailed. My grandfather, Hyrum Smith, and his older brother, Alvin, were called upon to do much of this laborious task. The younger brother, Joseph, was too young at that time to give much help, being only about ten years of age. Nevertheless he was called to assist, and a few years later—at the time of the vision—was under the necessity of performing labor required of a man. The house which stands upon the farm, was built by these sons of Joseph Smith, Senior; but it is not the house, as many have been told, in which the Angel Moroni appeared to Joseph Smith. The older house has long since disappeared, and stood several rods to the north of the present home. After the proclamation of the angel's visit persecution raged, and the family were not permitted long to enjoy the land which had cost them so much to prepare, because of others, who, through wickedness, for a season reaped the fruits thereof. As I stood upon the summit of the Hill Cumorah, in the midst of a vast multitude, only a few of whom belonged to the Church, I tried to picture the scenes of former days. Here were assembled vast armies filled with bitterness and bent on destruction. I thought of the great promises the Lord had made through his prophets concerning those who should possess this choice land, and how those promises were not fulfilled because the people violated his commandments. Here a people perished because of AT THE SACRED GROVE 587 their extreme wickedness. There must be something in the destiny of things that would cause a repetition of this terrible scene on the same spot, many centuries later. I reflected, and wondered if this unhappy time would ever come when another still mightier people would incur the wrath of God because of wickedness, and likewise perish. If so, would this same spot witness their destruction? I thought of the prophets, Ether, Mormon, Moroni, and tried to realize the sadness of their feelings as they witnessed the mad onrushing of their peoples to annihilation. We sang the song, prepared for this celebration, Zion-land, and I entered heartily, sincerely, into the spirit of the song: "God bless our Zion-land, Firm may she ever stand, Through storm and night; When the wild tempests rave, Ruler of wind and wave, Do Thou Thy Zion save By thy great might! "For her our prayers shall rise To God above the skies, With Him we stand; Thou who art ever nigh, Guarding with watchful eye, To Thee aloud we cry, God save Thy land." Here it was that Moroni, commanded by the Lord, hid up the sacred records of his people. Here it was, fourteen hundred years later, that he, then a resurrected being, came to Joseph Smith and committed these same records to the young man's care. At the time of the Prophet's first visit to the hill, it was covered with trees; today it is stripped and bare, save for the grass which grows abundantly. This former scene of strife and bloodshed, where two nations perished, later the sacred repository of ancient records, today is the abode of peaceful cattle, reclining and chewing the cud. The many millions of inhabitants of the land, who, because they love darkness rather than light, will not believe, although an angel has declared it unto them, appear to have no more thought concerning the wonderful events that have taken place near and on the Hill Cumorah, than have these cattle. The meetings held upon the hill were very impressive. Themes and episodes were discussed and read relating to these great events of former days. Testimonies were given and evidence presented that found lodgment in the hearts of those assembled, and many who came in wonderment and curiosity returned with serious reflections.588 Sunday morning, September 23, a most solemn and impressive meeting was held in the Sacred Grove. Only members of the Church were present. The sacrament was administered by two young elders, Jesse C. McEwan and Vernon D. Law. The Spirit of the Lord was manifest and felt by the entire assembly who sat in serious reflection thinking of the wonderful scene enacted over one hundred years before in this grove, and the great and marvelous work, the outcome of that vision. The following fitting description of the first temples was read by President Brigham H. Roberts: "The groves were God's first temples, ere man learned To hew the shaft, and lay the architrave, And spread the roof above them—ere he framed The lofty vault together and rolled back The sound of anthems; in the darkling wood, Amidst the cool and silence, he knelt down And offered to the Mightiest, solemn thanks And supplication."—