And Then Came Santa By Ruth Moench Bell "In festoons, dear, there that's better." Mrs. Jerry Fair stepped back to get the effect, as Mr. Jerry Fair pinned ropes of tinsel and gold to the curtains Bud thence twined them about the tree. "Now, put this star on the tip-top as if it had just dropped from the sky and lighted on the tree," Mrs. Jerry cried merrily. "Suppose some of the children come after all and catch us at it?' Jerry protested, as he had been protesting every day for the past year. "We've gone over the possibilities fifty times, Jerry;" Mrs. Jerry smiled dreamily. "They can't come. You know they can't!" Jerry took time to nurse a thumb which he had nipped with a cand! E-holder before he replied: 'All I know is, we slinll look mighty silly if any of them do happen in." Mrs. Jerry went on dressing a battered doll, which lay in her lap, nolding up humorously a chewed foot, badly in need of a bootee for covering. Jerry sat on the top of the ladder and looked long at the little lady he had claimed as wife for the past twenty, thirty—thirty-five, —how many years had it been after all? Jerry never could-remember. He still found a fascination in enjoying her varying expressions, as she sewed or did things for Christmas. Jerry realized that he was not the only one who rejoiced in gazing at Mrs: Jerry. In fact, the minute anyone caught his first glimpse of Mrs. Jerry, he found himself believing right away in'Santa Claus and vrandmothers, and all lovely things, though he felt at once that if Mrs. Jerry really were a grandmother she must be a very young grandmother, probably with a marriageable daughter somewhere about; else why was Mrs. Jerry so dimpling and expectant? Anyone could see at a glance that Mrs. Jerry was always perfectly certain, that all sorts of delightful things might happen almost any minute. And also, as one looked at her, one could not help suspecting that lovely memories kept close to her, touching her lips with their butterfly wings and brightening her eyes with their beauty. "T'm not so sure about. Joyce," Jerry continued. "The others have their homes and children and they are too far away. But Joyce i is young and unmarried and has nothing to keep her. I can't help thinking she may drop in.' "It is a long drop from Cheat," Mrs. Jerry laughed. "Joyce 594 will never come as long as there is a chance of meeting Ralph Leigh." Jerry whirled around on her, "But she knows Ralph won't be here. You told me you sent her word. Now if Ralph sails for Honolulu on the 27th, how can he stop over here. He must have gone through long ago.", "Ralph go through and not come and see us?" Mrs. Jerry flared. Jerry went on trimming the tree. "The last time he came, he looked past us hoping for some sign of Joyce." Mrs. Jerry smiled demurely: "Oh, I don't know that he looked past us last time." Jerry would crack nuts with the heel of his boot. And now crunched on his thumb savagely: "If he does come," Jerry exclaimed, "I won't have him getting away with any of that mistletoe stuff with you again." "But Ralph is such a dear, so big and breezy!. Oh, I don't see how Joyce could have quarreled with him. Why, Ralph Leigh would kindle coquetry in a wooden shoe,' Mrs. Jerry laughed. "If he so much as looked at one, it would begin to perk up saucily and—" "Powder its nose and purse its lips and happen to be under the mistletoe," Jerry mocked. "I couldn't help being under the mistletoe, Jerry," Mrs. Jerry remarked, while stuffing a stocking. "It was pinned to ribbon streamers at intervals. And the ribbons were draped from one corner of the ceiling to the other. I was hoping that Joyce might get lonesome and come home and Ralph might happen in—" "You've done it again," Jerry roared, glancing at the ceiling. "There is really nothing like mistletoe for bringing two lovers together," Mrs. Jerry sighed and then busied herself at stuffing stockings, keeping her -face provokingly away from Jerry, who had caught the spirit of the mistletoe and decided that it was also useful in stirring the affections of two married lovers. — "There's Ralph, now," Mrs. Jerry sang out, as the door bell rang impatiently, and Ralph followed his ring into the house. "Anyone home? Hullo, there," Ralph greeted. 'Wait till I shake this snow off. What's this?" he demanded, glancing first at the preparations for Christmas and then at the mistletoe suspended from the ceiling. He gathered Mrs: Jerry in his arms, warding Jerry laughingly away. "Never mind, old man, she's under the mistletoe," he insisted. "She couldn't help being under the mistletoe," Jerry pretended indignation, "she's got it strung from one end of the ceiling to the other." "So much the better," Ralph declared, helping himself. "But I tell you this isn't Christmas," Jerry fumed. AND THEN CAME SANTA 595 "Will be in a few hours," Ralph laughed. "One for you and —and one for—" he looked over his shoulder toward the door of Joyce's room. "I suppose she will be here?" "No, I'm afraid Joyce isn't coming, Ralph," Mrs. Jerry, looking flushed and happy, sighed with sympathy. "She wrote and wanted us to come and spend the holidays in Chicago." "Imagine Christmas in Chicago," Jerry snorted. "Christmas with Joyce would be wonderful anywhere," Ralph said with fervor. "I can't imagine anything easier than for Joyce to be teaching at a girls' school in Chicago and I going off to Honolulu alone." He aroused himself from the mood of depression. "You are certainly making preparations for the rest of them." "They can't come, any of them." "Can't come? None of them? Then why all these fixings?" "Jerry and I—" Jerry reached out and clasped Mrs. Jerry about the waist, as she continued. "Jerry and I are celebrating our—well, our Memory Christmas." "Merry, Memory Christmas," Jerry supplemented. "You see, for years we were so occupied in feeding our four birdlings," Mrs. Jerry explained from the shelter of her husband's arms, "we were so busy keeping them warm and training them to use their wings, that we have never had time till now to—to collect and sort and gather together and re-live all the precious memories of their Christmases. This time with our four birdlings flown to—almost to the four corners of the earth and with no chance of flying back, it seemed just the time to dream through their babyhood, their childhood, and make it all come true again." Under the mood of the moment, Mrs. Jerry sank down onto the large couch that cornered the glow from the fire-place. She drew Jerry with her, nestling into their favorite place, the encirling arm nearest the fire. Ralph folded himself into the big arm-chair and waited with wonder. None of them coming, not even Joyce. And yet rocking chairs, a rocking horse, albeit without a head and much battered, dolls, drums, and trumpets peeped out from the branches of the tree and under its great boughs. None of them coming, and all this preparation. "They left a good many toys behind them in their flight," Mrs. Jerry smiled, following Ralph's survey of the mended toys. "Yes, and all year, day after day," Jerry added, "I've made trips to the attic and painted and glued and fixed up all their treasures." "And every time he came down, smelling of glue and fresh paint," Mrs. Jerry smiled, "I would wonder what he had been up to." "You see, I wanted to surprise her," Jerry chuckled. "I 596 could see that she was working away, sewing and making things, that—that somehow had a familiar look. Hoods and dresses and things that I somehow seemed to remember seeing Joyce or Ellen in—when they were children." "You see, I wanted to surprise him," Mrs. Jerry bubbled, "and he wanted to surprise me. And we were both up to the same trick," she added dreamily. 'Because we have always planned to have this Memory Christmas the very first Christmas that we were sure that none of them could be with us." Ralph suppressed the sigh he felt like emitting. There was no hopes that Joyce might come, even yet. "We are simply reveling in this Christmas, Jerry and I," Mrs. Jerry went on. "From the dolly with the chewed toe, to the headless rocking horse, everything has its memories for us." "And we are not going to be sad," Jerry insisted. "This year we are just collecting the laughing memories." He chuckled again. "We even went to the extravagance of buying something to please us. A pair of boots like Billie's first pair, even to the size." "A saucy red hood, trimmed with fur, like Joyce used to wear," Mrs. Jerry chorused. "And the little red cape that went with it." Ralph glanced again at the two tokens of Joyce' childhood. "And the high-topped shoes with the red border that she insisted she must have to wear with the coat and hood," Mrs. Jerry pointed out. "Tom's sled and wagon and first skates," jen indicated. "Ellen's furs and warm, woolen dress. Jerry bought the furs and I made the dress as near as I could remember like the one Ellen wore that happiest of Christmases!" Mrs. Jerry continued. "You see, by some strange coincidence, we both chose one certain Christmas, when Ellen was—how old was she?" "About twelve," Mrs. Jerry laughed, "and Tom was ten, Billie seven and Joyce near five. Do you see, now, Ralph?' "I see a headless horse without a rider,' Ralph smiled understandingly. "And I see Billie on his back, kicking lustily with his sturdy shoes," Mrs. Jerry laughed.. "And later, after the head was gone. I can see him hanging on by the tail and still kicking lustily." "This was Ellen's doll cradle," Jerry smiled mistily. "And that carriage was the pride of baby Joyce." "That carriage belonged to—to Joyce—?'" Ralph repeated, as if trying to picture his lady love as a demure little miss trailing grandly behind it. "This was her rocker," Mrs. Jerry added fondly, "and many a tea-party she and Ellen had by that small table." Ralph stirred himself with an effort. How he would have liked to stay there with them and hear about Joyce, at least, since he could not win her. 'Well, I shall have to go," he said AND THEN CAME SANTA 597 reluctantly. '"I—I was just thinking how lucky you are to have memories. I wonder if I 'shall ever have any, though I'd like something more substantial first." Ralph slipped into his overcoat, thinking to himself how like Joyce Mrs. Jerry was. And how like Mrs. Jerry it was to plan a Christmas celebration of this sort, after her children had flown away. "Why, anybody else would be grieving at being left alone. And those two are rejoicing in their memories." Ralph glanced again at the mistletoe, as he turned to go. "She is still under it," he cried. - "Go ahead, stock up, take a hundred," Jerry laughed whimsically. Jerry stood with his wife at the window after Ralph had gone.. It was sad to think that Ralph was on his way to the coast and from thence to Honolulu, loving their baby, Joyce, and: that Joyce was in Chicago, no longer a baby, and too proud to forget her quarrel, letting the man she loved go out of her life, all for a silly quarrel. "I can't bear to see him go like that,” Mrs. Jerry observed. "Youth is so tragic. And he and Joyce ought to be ate, at Christmas." She and Jerry stood at the window, watching the. Snow piling up like layers of cotton batting, as Jerry always said. "Only cotton batting is not so live—and fresh—and full of feeling," Mts. Jerry would always reply. "There go that rubberless boy and girl again,” Jerry remarked. "Sometimes they pass with a younger brother and sister and never a rubber amongst them," Mrs. Jerry sighed. - "Beats me how some parents let their children go," Jerry fumed., "I wonder who they are," Mrs. Jerry cried. "Ten years ago we would have known. We knew. Everyone in town then. But the place has certainly grown." "They are rather shabbily dressed," Jerry commented. "There have been times when I have thought of seeing if I could not hire the boy to chop my wood and sweep the paths this winter." "We must not get lazy," Mrs. Jerry admonished, "though I must confess that I have had thoughts of hiring the girl to wash the dishes and do little errands that Ellen and Joyce used to do." Jerry went about his chores and Mrs. Jerry began setting the table exactly as she had set it in the days when four merry, hungry youngsters gathered about it on Christmas Eve. She set places for Ellen, now in California; Billie, a prominent physician in Texas; Tom, a lumber man in Seattle; Joyce, a teacher in Chicago. Twilight was coming on and Mrs. Jerry sat down in the low. Rocker by the tree'and waited, thinking of the little dream children 598 that had once nestled into her heart and danced about the tree, little, shadowy, mysterious dream children. And now they had grown bigger and less mysterious until they had finally airplaned away, leaving behind them the echo of their laughter, a few battered and forgotten toys, such as the headless rocking horse, the dolly with the chewed toe and—Memories. "T'm glad we have never folded our memories away," she murmured as Jerry joined her, sitting in his great arm-chair by the fire-place. "We've always had our memories about us, floating in and out with the breeze." "And this time we have invited them in and prepared to receive them," Jerry responded. Then he drew her to him in their favorite corner of the couch, where the firelight might play over her features. "You are not getting sad?" he inquired. "You know we promised to be merry." "How could I be sad?" she whispered softly, "only I have been wondering. There is the Christmas supper hot on the stove. Each one's favorite is there. Tom's chicken and dressing, Ellen's mince pies, Joyce's oyster soup, Billie's ginger bread—" "And we are going to eat the favorites," Jerry concluded, as ' Mrs. Jerry paused lengthily. "We are going to eat and remember, be merry over the jokes they used to make and the fun they had at meal times."' a "Yes," Mrs. Jerry responded, suppressing the wistful feeling beginning to creep over her. "I wonder if it was a bit extravagant buying all these things, the clothes like they used to wear, che great tree, the filled stockings!'' Jerry looked over at the tree, whose luxurious boughs reached almost to the couch on one side and nearly to the fireplace on the other. What a luxurious tree it was; big, with bushy boughs, broad enough and sweeping enough for a doll to lie on. Drums and trumpets peeped out from between its branches. Tinsel and baubles and stars gleamed entrancingly, catching the firelight and reflecting its glow. "We've surely been very generous to our memories," he smiled. "It is almost time to light the candles. Shall I draw the shades tonight?' "We've never shut our Christmas cheer in,' replied. "We must not shut in our memories." Jerry lighted the candles while Mrs. Jerry looked tenderly over at the gifts that the children had sent: Ellen's wonderful roses from California, adorned the table; Tom's gift of silver, Billie's gift of books. Nothing had come, as yet from Joyce. Her gift would probably drift in tomorrow. It was always so jolly to receive a tardy present on Christmas morning and have a chance to remember the mail-carrier and exchange greetings with him. Jerry sat down again in the corner of the couch, where they ' Mrs. Jerry AND THEN CAME SANTA 599 could both look out of the window on the new falling snow, piling up on the ledge; and then they could dream in the light of the candles. "This is the time you used to recite—" "'Twas the night before Christmas, when-all through the house—" Jerry tried to say with his accustomed fervor. "You used to sing first," Jerry corrected. "I can't sing, Jerry,' Mrs. Jerry cried tremulously, "It seems so—so kind of selfish and indulgent of us. There are the little boots that would delight some small boy, the furs that were one little girl's joy—the dolls, the drums, the sleds that you have painted like new. All these things—and—" ee: "Please, sir, is this a left-over Christmas tree?''- Jerry and Mrs. Jerry did not start. The voice seemed so 2 part of their dream, a part of the firelight, the candle-glow, the snow-covered window. "Please, sir, is this a left-over Christmas tree?' the small voice repeated. Mrs. Jerry blinked her eyes slowly. "Jerry, are we dreaming or is that a little boy and girl before us?" Jerry stirred and took in the reality. It was true. A small boy of perhaps five or six stood before them and a tiny miss of four. ' "Always in books one of them comes," Mrs. Jerry murmured dreamily, "but this is real life. Memories, pine-scented and snowfragrant can not come to life and be real." Mrs. Jerry glanced in bewilderment at the tree. The dolls and drums peeped out like fairies, so that sometimes she could not be sure they were really there and yet at others she could not help believing they really were. But this boy and girl! No, they did not disappear in the shadows. "Why, they are real, Jerry, real," Mrs. Jerry cried in a quiver. "It is the brother and sister, the small brother and sister of the rubberless 'boy and girl we saw this afternoon," Jerry explained under his breath. The small boy advanced uncertainly. "Please, sir, is this a left-over Christmas tree?" "A left-over Christmas tree?' Jerry repeated wonderingly. The small boy, with more confidence now that he saw the kindly welcome that shone in the eyes of the two at the fireside, held his tiny sister's hand protectingly and again urged his claim to their notice. "We saw it from the window," he ventured, "and there were no children around it and—and—you looked lonely and the tree looked lonely and—and left-over—" "Come here, dears,' Mrs. Jerry spoke tenderly. 'Tell me all about it. What is it you mean? Left-over?"' 600 "Yes, like cold potatoes or something that nobody didn't want." "Doesn't anyone want you?" Mrs. Jerry cried in wonder. "Only Tom and Molly, and they are left-over, too," the little fellow answered. "Who are Tom and Molly?" Jerry wanted to know. "Our big brother and sister. They wash dishes and run errands to get us something to eat." "The rubberless boy and girl, Jerry,” Mrs. Jerry repeated. "Haven't you any daddy or mama?" "No'm, you see Mr. Heavenly Father—" "Ttth jutht Heavenly Faver, Molly thath,' the small sister - lisped. "Mr. Is more polite," the small boy maintained stoutly. "Mr. Heavenly Father took mama home to him and—and daddy and us —we were just left-over. He didn't take us. And then daddy met an accident—" "Met with an accident,' Mrs. Jerry smiled, drawing the little boy upon her lap, while Mr. Jerry cuddled the little girl in his arms. "Yes, met an accident—" the boy repeated, "'and Mr. Heavenly Father took him, too, and we were left-over all alone." Mrs. Jerry clasped him more closely to her. "And so—you thought we were left over, too?' she added slowly. "There didn't seem to be any children who belonged to you— or to the tree," the small boy observed. "Where are Tom and Molly?" Jerry inquired. "They went out to det uth thome Chrithmath—" the tiny girl lisped. "She means Christmas," the boy explained patiently. "They tucked us in bed; but we came out to see if we could find Santa, cause mama and daddy wasn't here to tell him where we were. May I ride on the rocking horse just a minute?" Jerry arose and set the tiny girl in the red rocker that. Was once the joy of his baby Joyce. 'I'm going out," he said resolutely, "I'm going out to find the rubberless boy or girl. This— this is their Christmas. God made you plan it, dear, and sent them—to enjoy it." Tears streamed down Mrs.- Jerry's face as she clasped her arms about her husband's neck. '""We must keep them always," she cried. "They are precious realities that—that will help us to harvest another crop of memories." And when Santa came, his merry smile embraced a sweetfaced matron who dimpled expectantly at the little group about her, the little group that once were another's. Old Santa's eyes twinkled tenderly at Jerry's cavalier-like form down on all fours, bending beneath the weight of a small boy in brand, spanking new AND THEN CAME SANTA 601 boots, that fitted without a wrinkle, although they had been meant for another. And maybe you think old Santa's heart did not warm, toward a certain tiny, lisping lass alternately glancing at her red-topped shoes, her precious doll, with the chewed toe, and the wonderful saucy red hood and Christmasy cape that were hers for keeps. But perhaps old Santa's most loving smile lingered on the boy named Tom, and the girl called Molly, arrayed in sweaters, furs, and warm clothes meant for certain memory children of which happily they were nearly a counterpart. Old Santa's smile embraced the favored, laughing group, guessing that a certain young lady had found Christmas cravings too strong for her and had wired a certain young man in answer to his wire—that—but oh, pshaw, who does not know Cupid has his own mischievous devices for uniting lovers at Christmas time, perhaps his busiest season. "Why, Mother, what does this mean?" Jerry demanded, looking over the shoulder of Mrs. Jerry the next day. "A telegram signed Ralph and Joyce." But old Santa knew what it meant and chuckled approvingly. As he sped on his way, glancing over his shoulder affectionately at the happy group he had made merrier.