Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in Fedruary) - SPIRITUAL SERVICE (Continued ) 1. Choice of Spiritual Service. "Choose you this day whom ye will serve," Joshua 24:15. This quotation may well be repeated at the dawn of every day by every one of accountable age. There is need of a Joshua within to start us on our way, as there is need for a power without to keep us at our best. 2. God's Commandments are Eternal and Spiritual. "Wherefor I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man nor the children of men; neither Adam your father whom I created." (Doctrine and Covenants 29:34.) Commandments from God are revelations of truth with an injunction of application of the truth. All truth is eternal, God's commands are therefore everlasting in their nature. Their application may be changed from place to place and from time to time, but the laws change not. The fulfiling of a law consists in completing its application, as was the case with the fulfilment of the "Law of Moses," by Christ. Under the same conditions that were in force, when the law was given, the law of carnal commandments will be ever in force. Change of conditions inevitably brings change in the operations of commandments or revealed law. (D. & C 19:4-13.) The commandments of God are all spiritual because they came from a spiritual source and they all have spiritual effects. A single spiritual service act causes the heavens to rejoice in that it is a response to the inspiration of the Almighty or to his expressed will. Spiritual service is like the broadcasting of a radio message causing vibrations of joy in every direction. The broadcasting also produces return vibrations of joy that expand and refine the actor. For one to awaken in the morning and say, "This day I will serve the Lord," is equal to saying, "This day I will cause waves of happiness to ripple on the ocean of the universe." Spiritual service is double in its effect in that it adds to the joy of its affinity, the Spirit of the Lord, and increases the strength of the one who renders the service. "If ye love me, keep my commandments," carries with it all that could be expressed by saying, "Tf ye love me ye will make me happy by keeping my commandments." That which can be grieved can be made happy and we 626 learn from scripture that Jesus wept (John 11:35) and that the Losd wept at the prospects of human suffering resulting from failure in spiritual service. (See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 8:28-130.). 3. Fervor and Fact Essential to Spiritual Service. "God is a spirit; and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth." (John 4:24.) In this passage we. Have evidence of the personality of God. The letter "a" and the word "him" precludes the possibility of thinking of God as other than an, individual. Had the Savior said that God is spirit; and they who worship "it" must worship "it" in spirit and in truth, there would be some justification for the doctrine of God being nothing more than a diffused spiritual force or influence. The passage also makes plain that the worship of God must be more than half-hearted, it must be full of fervor and valiancy. The trail followed by the unvaliant ends at best in the terrestrial kingdom. "These are they who are not valiant," (Doc. & Cov. 76:79.) But fervor or valiancy is insufficient in a spiritual service that saves and exalts. Truth is indispensable. The worship of idolaters is full of fervor or spirit and their service is full of sacrifice, but truth is not there and without the truth we cannot be free. Phantom pursuit ends in disappointment. But as fervor cannot make progress alone in spiritual service so truth without earnest application stands waiting. The compensation for spirit- — ual service will depend on the amount of fervor put into that service and the closeness to which that fervor keeps to fact. _ 4, Work for God and Treatment of Men Basis of Reward for Spiritual Service. "The Lord shall come to recompense to every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man." (Doc. & Cov. 1:10.) This modern scripture reveals the inseparableness of the two great laws given by the Savior (Mark 12:31). It makes plain that neither of the laws can be acceptably complied with in service withgut obedience to the other. If one would know his fate at the judgment seat of the Almighty, let that one consult the habit-book of life on two points: What are my habits of work for the Lord, and what are my habits of treatment of my fellowmen? 5. Prayer and Sacrifice in Spiritual Service: The first free agency spiritual act of mortals was the utterance of a prayer. Spiritual service began with a sacrifice. We do not know how long each of our first parents had a soul-desire to come under the care of the Lord; we cannot tell how often each felt like uttering that song-prayer: "O my Father, thou that dwellest, in that high and glorious place! When shall I regain thy presence, and again behold thy face?" GUIDE LESSONS 627 With a yearning they waited and waited in the midst of uncertainty, destruction, and death. Then came a voice, the voice of him from whom they had been banished by the estrangement of disobedience and the fiat of expulsion from Eden. They prayed. The prayer was an act, not of service; it was an application for service. It was not a petition for some particular convenient employment; it was the plea that had in it unmistakable willingness to let the Lord name the service. Whatever the words of that application were, they were weighted with sincerity, as were the words of Saul—''Lord, what wouldst thou have me do?" The answer to their application for-spiritual service was begun with sacrifice and thus was put in operation the truth that sacrifice is a prerequisite for spiritual service, and for one to expect to qualify for acceptable service without a willingness to sacrifice is to expect a suspension of the decree of the Almighty, and a reversal of the order of heaven. Doing the convenient only, whether it be attending to prayers, helping the poor, defending leaders, creates no condition of the self that will justify the expectation of high position. We shall all find written over the archway of the door of the temple of eternal justice, "Special privilege for special service." Every day of individual life is like a day in the life of the race. Prayer makes the way for proper entrance into service, and sacrifice begins the service for God and fellowmen. What is true of individual service is true of national spiritual service. National prayer and national sacrifice will bring peace; the spiritual service will work the miracle of universal peace. Questions and Problems 1. Wherein does John (4:24) prove that spiritual service must be based upon belief in a personal God? 2. Show that religious fervor, sincerity, or spirit in spiritual service, is not sufficient for acceptable spiritual service. 3. Prove that half-hearted spiritual service, in truth or in the worship of the true God, cannot reach beyond the terrestrial kingdom. 4. Prove from the Doctrine and Covenants that all of the commandments of the Lord are spiritual. 9. Show that our spiritual service affects both the Spirit of the Lord and our own spirits. 6. Wherein is keeping the Word of Wisdom spiritual service? 7. Show the spiritual service side of paying of tithing. 8. In what respect is marrying in the temple a high kind of spiritual service? 9. Discuss the proposition: Sacrifice is one of the essentials of an exalting spiritual service.: 628 10. Discuss prayer (a) as a means of getting into spiritual service; (b) as an aid in the rendering of spiritual service. 11. Discuss the spiritual-service value of the words of the first judge in Israel, quoted in this lesson. 12. Where is the scriptural proof that we shall be rewarded according to our work for the Lord, and the treament of our fellowmen? Work and Business (Second Week in February) Literature Third Week in February SNOWBOUND Mr. W. S. Kennedy writes of Whittier and his home life: "He was born and passed his boyhood youth in a green, sunken pocket of the inland hills, and he became the poet of the heart and the home. He lived the simple, quiet life of a farmer, loving his mother, his sister, his Quaker sect, freedom, and his own hearth. Between the front door of the old homestead and the road rises a grassy, wooded bank, at. The foot of which flows a little ambercolored brook. The brook is mentioned in Snowbound: " "We minded that the sharpest ear The buried brooklet could not hear, The music of whose liquid lip Had been to us companionship, And, in our lonely life, had grown To have an almost human tone." "The house where Whittier was born and where he lived," says one of his biographers, "is very plain and not very large. Entering the front door, you are in a small entry with a steep, quaint little staircase. On the right is the parlor where Whittier wrote. In the tiny, low-studded room on the left, he was born, and in the same room his father and Uncle Moses died. The room is about fourteen by fourteen feet, is partly wainscoted, has a fireplace and three windows. All the windows in the house have small panes, nine in the upper, and six in the lower, sash. The home is supposed to be over two hundred years old. The kitchen, oldfashioned as it is, of course, attracts a good deal of attention." Snowbound gives us a picture of home life in and about this cottage, in the winter time. The old kitchen, is a cozy old room with its fire-place and huge breadth of chimney with inset GUIDE LESSONS 629 cupboards and oven and mantlepiece. Above the mantle hung the old bull's-eye watch. On one side of the kitchen is the cupboard where the pewter plates were placed and in another part is the brass warming pan, polished to such brightness that it attracted attention from any part of the room. No description that can be given by any prose writer, we take it, can equal Whittier's own description. He says of this home: "Shut in from all the world without, We sat the clean-winged hearth about, Content to let the north-wind roar In baffled rage at pane and door, White the red logs before us beat The frost-line back with tropic heat; And ever, when a louder blast Shook beam and rafter as it passed, The merrier up its roaring draught The great throat of the chimney laughed, The house dog on his paws outstretched, Laid to the fire his drowsy head, The cat's dark silhoue'te on the wall A couchant tiger's seemed to fall; And, for the winter fireside meet, Between the andirons' straddling feet, The mug of cider simmered slow, The apples sputtered in a row, And, close at hand,'the basket stood With nu's from brown October's wood." Within this home dwel'ed the father and mother, who were the inspiration of the jife there. In Snowbound we learn how the father ate moose and samp in trapper's hut and Indian camp on Memphremagog's wooded side, and danced beneath St. Francois' hemlock trees, and a'e chowder and hake-broil at the Isle of Shoals. There was no Friends church in Haverhill, but the poet's Father could be seen each Sunday wending his way to the old brown meetinghouse in Amesbury, a distance of six miles. Mrs. Whittier, the poet's mother, had a very deeply religious nature. She was pure, sweet, lovable, and kind-hearted to a fault. In Snowbound her son tells us something of her girlhood in Somersworth on Piscataqua. In another of his books called The Yankee Gypsie, he tells this story of his mother, which is a tribute to her kind-heartedness: "On one occasion," says th poet, "a few years ago, on my return from the fields at evening, I was told that a foreigner had asked for lodgings during the night but that, influenced by his dark, repulsive appesrance, my mother had very reluctantly refused his request. I found her by no means satisfied with her 630 decision. What if a son of mine were in a strange land?' she inquired self-reproachfully. Greatly to her relief I volunteered to. Go in pursuit of the wanderer, and taking a cross path over the fields, soon overtook him. He had just been rejected at the house of our nearest neighbor, and was standing in a state of dubious perplexity in the street. His looks quite justified my mothers' superstitions. He was an olive-complexioned, blackbearded Italian, with an eye like a live coal, such a face as perchance looks out on the traveler in the passes of the Abruzzi—one of those bandit visages which Salvator has painted. With some difficulty I gave him to understand my errand, when he overwhelmed me with thanks and joyfully followed me back. He took his seat with us at the supper table and when we were all gathered around the hearth, that cold autumnal evening, he told us, partly by words and partly by gestures, the story of his life and misfortunes, amused us by descriptions of the great gatherings and festivals of his sunny clime, edified my mother with a recipe for making bread with chestnuts; and, in the morning when, after breakfast, his dark, sullen face lighted up, and his fierce eye moistened with grateful emotion, as in his own silvery Tuscan accent he poured out his thanks, we marvelled at the fears which had so nearly closed our doors against him; and as he departed we all felt that he had left with us the blessing of the poor. "It was not often that, as in the above instance, my mother's prudence got the better of her charity. The regular old stragglers regarded her an unfailing friend; and the sight of her plain cap was to them an assurance of forthcoming creature comforts." Other members of the Whittier household in the poet's boyhood were his elder sister Mary, who died in 1861; Uncle Moses Whittier, who in 1824 received fatal injuries from the falling of a tree which he was cutting down; the poet's younger brother, Matthew, who was born in 1812 and was a contributor to the newspapers of humorous dialect articles, signed "Ethan Spike, from Hornby;" and finally the aunt, Mercy E. Hussey; the younger sister Elizabeth, and occasionally the half-welcome eccentric guest, Harriet Livermore. Of Whittier's Uncle Moses, he writes: Our uncle, innocent of books, Was rich in lore of fields and brooks, The ancient teachers never dumb Of Nature's unhoused lyceum, In moons and tides and weather wise, He reads the clouds as prophecies, And foul or fair could well divine, By many an occult hint and sign, Holding the cunning warded keys GUIDE LESSONS 631 To all the woodcraift mysteries; Himself to Nature's heart so near That all her voices in his ear Of beast or bird had meanings clear. Of his eldest sister Mary, who died in 1861, he says: There, too, our elder sister plied Her evening task the stand beside; A full, rich nature, free to trust, Truthful and almost sternly just, Impulsive, earnest, prompt to act, And make her generous thought a fact, Keeping with many a disguise The secret of self-sacrifice. Centering his thought and feelings on his younger sister, Elizabeth who, like himself, was a poet, he wrote: As one who held herself a part Of all she saw, and letsher heart Against the household bosom lean, Upon the motley-braided mat Our youngest and our dearest sat, Lifting her large, sweet, asking eyes, Now bathed within the fadeless green And holy peace of Paradise." Snowbound was first published in 1860, and was written, Mr. Whittier has said, "to beguile the weariness of a sick-chamber." Of descriptions of the class that appear in this poem, Mr. Pancoast writes: "To describe such scenes both truthfully and poetically requires power of no mean order and to this power Whittier added sympathy with the lives of those who toil." And. Mr. Bronson says: Snowbound, that unique idyl of New England country life in winter, is, on the whole, Whittier's greatest and most characteristic poem. Nearly all his previous life had been an unconscious preparation for it, and his ancestors had a hand in it before he was born. It could have been written only, by one bred on a New England farm." Whittier was of fine New England stock; inheriting her legacy of moral, intellectual and spiritual wealth. These qualities he breathed into the lines of Snowbound. No one has reflected New England atmosphere more perfectly than he. As a literary expression of New England rural life, Snowbound is not excelled by anything that has been written; it is very justly styled one of the few American classics. Questions 1. Read the lines from Snowbound describing the aunt, to the class. 2. If you think Snowbound is a description of rural life in general, as well as rural life in New England, tell why. 3. Why are literary critics justified in speaking of Whittier as a democratic poet? The word democratic is used in the broad sense.
4. Find as many lines as you can in Snowbound that indicate that Whittier believed in the life after death.
Social Service
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in February) THE STANDARD OF LIVING
The social worker, in an effort to understand the forces that act on the individual in the processes of development and adjustment, very soon becomes aware of the great economic differences which exist in society today. The child, born in the slums of a city, where the struggle for mere food and shelter is a daily actual fact, has an entirely different set of experiences from the child whose parents can provide not only the needs, but the luxuries of life. The student of sociology must recognize that there is a great difference in economic standards, and must understand that these standards determine, to a certain extent, the kind of influence that the home, the church, the school and the community will exert on the individual. An insight into economic standards is therefore essential to an understanding of man's development and his struggle for satisfactory adjustment.
The term "standard of living" could be more easily understood if a standard could be stated in dollars and cents. It is impossible, however, to say that a family of a certain number should be able to provide certain things on a certain income. A standard cannot be stated in terms of income because a stated income cannot secure the same things for every family. A family's needs differ at different times, depending on the age of its members, the degree of health enjoyed, the ability of the mother to manage a home, the demand of certain types of employment in the matter of clothing, and countless other differences. The allowance for rent and carfare will vary according to the neighborhood; the cost of rents, fuel, lights, food, etc., is different in different communities. The term "standard of living," therefore,
must be thought of as a manner of living rather than as a certain income, for a certain number. The "standard of living" as defined by Dr. Edward T. Devine, is made up of "those things which many men in common hold to be clearly essential to them. The standard of living embraces all those things which we want, and want enough to secure them; which have a vital importance for us; for which we are willing to make sacrifices."
While an individual may not attain all the things that are in his standard of living, if he aspires to gain these things, is willing to struggle and sacrifice for them, they must be considered a part of his standard. Each individual has his own individual standard. A family, too, has its standard, which is a combination of the standards of its members and includes those things which most of them hold to be essential. Each community has a standard, which is determined by what the majority of individuals consider important for the common good and is expressed in health regulations, lighting, law enforcement, educational opportunities, recreation facilities, etc.
While keeping in mind that the standard of living to the sociologist is a very personal and varying term, it may be well at this point to consider a general classification of economic planes of living. In his new book, The Standard of Living, Mr. N. H. Comish states that in practically every nation in the world there are four general planes of living. The first is the group whose income can merely keep body and soul together. The second is what is termed as the minimum of subsistence standard, providing for physical wants such as food, shelter, and clothing, but allowing little for the needs of men as social creatures. The third classification is the health and comfort standard, which provides for the material wants of man and also some comforts, insurance that takes care of the major misfortunes of life and a degree of education and amusement. The fourth group is described as the standard of luxury, providing for an abundance of literature, art, travel, and the like.
To discuss at this point the theories of economists to bring about a more equal distribution of wealth would not be profitable. What should be noted is the effect that a particular economic plane or status will have on the experiences and development of the individual. The health habits, the education, the vocational training, the recreation, the associations, etc., will be of different types in these various economic planes.
While it is obvious that the kind of experiences through which an individual will pass is determined by his economic 
status, it is not so well defined which plane of living produces the most desirable kind of people. History is replete with instances of men and women, born in an environment of poverty, rising to great heights in various fields of endeavor. Obstacles often spur youth on to more determined effort, with resulting progression. A need to struggle, to travel the rough road, may give an individual an understanding of the values of life, and this understanding may direct him to serious accomplishment.
But there is a point on the economic scale, below which no one would deliberately place an individual. Below a certain point there is a poverty that is a handicap. It cannot be seriously argued that individuals in the first two classifications are not hampered in their development. Where a family income is not adequate to provide necessary food, there will be undernourished and unhealthy children. If there is a lack of clothing and shelter, and the members are subject to exposure and cold, the health and well-being of the members will again be endangered. If, because of financial stress, the schooling of children is frequently interrupted and discontinued at an early age, they will have a distinct disadvantage. If, because of lack of time, clothing, and means, there is no opportunity for recreation and social life discouragement will naturally follow. Economic stress can reach a point where it causes church connections to be broken, and the family loses the spiritual support of which it obviously has a great need. There is a poverty which destroys its poor; a poverty which leaves in its wake a multitude of social ills and evils: disease, death, exploitation, discouragement, delinquency.
Some of the general plans and programs advanced for the solution of poverty and its related problems will be the subject of the next lesson.
Reference: Dr. Edward T. Devine, Normal Life, Chapter 5, Maturity—Home, pages 128-140.
Note: "Normal Life," by Edward T. Devine, may be obtained at the Deseret News Book Store for $1.50 per copy.
1. Give an example of a family which could not provide the same things in two succeeding years on the same income.
2. Give an example of a family's standard becoming higher the second year on the same income.
3. According to Dr. Devine's definition, how might a college education be included in an individual's standard, even though he never attends college?
4. Name the four general classifications of the planes of living.
5. Point out specific disadvantages (such as a lack of glasses for a child with impaired vision) imposed on children in the first two classes in their health, educational, vocational, and spiritual development.
Teachers' Topic for February THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME Divine Answer to Prayer
"What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them."—Mark 11:24.
"If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you."—Matt. 17:20.
Relate how through prayer and faith great men have accomplished great things. Abraham, Washington, Lincoln, latter-day prophets.
The observance of the law is the greatest solvent of public ills. Men speak of natural rights, but I challenge any one to show where in nature any rights ever existed or were recognized until there was established for their declaration and protection a duly promulgated body of corresponding laws. The march of civilization has been ever under the protecting aegis of the law. It is the strong defence of the weak, the ever-present refuge of innocence, a mighty fortress of the righteous. One with the law is a majority. While the law is observed the progress of civilization will continue. When such observance ceases chaos and the ancient night of despotism will come again. Liberty goes unsupported or relies in its entirety on the maintenance of order and the execution of the law.—Calvin Coolidge, President.
The General Board is pleased to announce that the second edition of the Relief Society Song Book is just off the press and ready for sale. Standing orders will be promptly filled.
All orders should be addressed to Relief Society Headquarters, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Price—75c each, postpaid; $9.00 per dozen.