Child Labor Day
THE annual observance of National Child Labor Day occurs January 28-30, 1933. The depression has lessened the total number of children employed. The United States Census shows that children between the ages of 10 to 15 years includes in 1930, 667,118, while in 1920 there were 1,060,858, a reduction of 37%. Many of those now at work have been driven into industry because of the long continued unemployment of their adult relatives. It is a deplorable fact that some employers have taken advantage of the times and have worked young children at "starvation wages." The National Child Labor Committee emphasizes that there is great need at the present time to enforce child labor laws, improve lax laws, and maintain established standards of minimum age, physical fitness, and working hours. The Federal Children's Bureau states that there are upwards of one-half million boys and young men under 21 years of age drifting about the country on foot or jumping freight trains in a fruitless search for work. The already overburdened communities move these boys on after giving them a night's lodging and a meager meal or two and no real attempt is made to solve the problems of really absorbing them into the social fabric. The golden opportunity of gathering in the young people who are unemployed is mitigated against because of reduced appropriations, shortened school terms, reduced number of teachers, suspension of financial and guidance programs and the cancelling of building plans. The committee investigating, states: "A numerical reduction, therefore, in the number of child laborers is not sufficient, without alternative provision for constructive training. Never has the need for the strengthening of our educational structure been more urgent than now. Including those of 16 and 17 years, more than 2,000,000 boys and girls are reported by the 1930 Census as gainfully employed; but more than 3,000,000 are not attending school. The opportunity exists for keeping thousands of young people in school and preparing them to find greater satisfaction, usefulness, security and development in what their hands and minds find to do. The amount and kind of education given to adolescent youth in the next few years will largely determine the contribution of the coming generation to the solution of the problems of unemployment, economic instability, and international relationships which are troubling the world today."