The Children's Bureau, Its Purpose and Workings By Anna Laura Stohl Cannon
THE act which was signed by President Taft on April 9, 1912, creating the Children's Bureau directed that this Bureau should "investigate and report * * upon all matters pertaining to the welfare of children and child life among all classes of our people." Miss Julia C. Lathrop, the first chief of the Children's Bureau, set forth its purpose in these words, "The Bureau is to be a center of information useful to all the children of America, to ascertain and to popularize just standards for their life and development." The first aim of the Children's Bureau is, logically, the preservation of life for all children. Physical care such as to permit them to grow and develop properly is a further aim. The Bureau works to the end that every child be given the opportunity to attend school. It is striving to see that no child is the victim of harmful industrial activity. It maintains that children who have conduct problems should be cured and not punished. The Bureau emphasizes the importance of the home, and supports the view that no child shall be taken from his own home or from the custody of his own parents because of poverty or illegitimacy. Children who, of necessity, must be cared for outside their own homes are held to be entitled to a type of care approximating normal home life. Children who are the victims of mental and physical defects should be given every possible opportunity for correction and care. Summarized, the ultimate aim is that every child in the country be given opportunity for maximum physical, mental and social development. This is the practical purpose which the staff of the Bureau is working to accomplish.
MISS GRACE ABBOTT, the present chief of the Children's Bureau recently said, "The task which was assigned to the Children's Bureau by Congress twenty years ago is not completed. It meets the proverbial description of women's work?it is never done." The goal of child welfare work is not only to assemble, organize and apply all available information for child development but at the same time, through research and study, to extend the boundaries of knowledge. There still is a long way to go to bring practices up to the standards established on the basis of present information. Much progress has been made, however, in realization of aims during the twenty years of the Bureau's existence. In 1912 only eight states had complete systems of birth registration and only half the states had records showing death statistics. The expansion of the birth registration area by 1929 to 46 states and the District of Columbia brought the percentage of the population of the United States included in the area up to 95. It is impossible to accurately say how many babies were born in the country during 1912, or how many, at that time, died during the first year of infancy. The best estimate indicated that over 300,000 babies less than a year old were dying annually, and authorities were of the opinion that half this number were dying needlessly. In spite of the large increase in population only half that number died during 1930. According to the 1912 estimate, out of every 1,000 babies born alive 124 died during the first year of life; the death rate in 1920 for this group was eighty-six and in 1930 sixty-four in the United States birth registration area. Children born today have the benefit of a more enlightened medical profession. Doctors know more about the value of sunlight and cod liver oil as well as the need for milk, vegetables and fruit for well rounded nourishment. Twenty years ago child specialists were called only to administer to sick children but today many of them are spending as much as a third of their time supervising well children. The child of today is in much less danger of contracting small pox and is less likely to die from diphtheria and scarlet fever than the child born twenty years ago. In 1912 only one state had a bureau of child health while today forty-seven states have such bureaus working to improve the health of every child within the state.
PARENTS of today have the advantages of more practical and cheaper books regarding the scientific care of children. Contrary to the popular idea that government bulletins are in little demand the Children's Bureau has never been able, out of its appropriation, to meet the requests for bulletins. During the twenty years of the bureau's existence more than thirteen million copies of its bulletins on prenatal care, infant care, child care and child management have gone to mothers. An important beginning has been made in establishing child health centers to disseminate parental education. Between 1921 and 1929 many centers were set up, both in city and rural communities by the state and federal governments in connection with the administration of the maternity and infancy act. Many of these centers have become permanent organizations. A great deal has been accomplished in providing proper facilities and training directors for the recreational hours. At the present time there is much interest in extending these benefits to the rural communities. Through the influencing of public opinion and sponsoring of laws much has been accomplished during the last twenty years in the reduction of child labor evils. Forty-three states now have laws requiring school attendance until the age of sixteen, although many of the laws provide for exemptions. Reports indicate, however, that during 1930 nearly two million children and young persons under eighteen were employed. Article XVI of the Children's Charter, given by the last White House Conference, charges us with the obligation to provide "for every child protection against labor that stunts growth, either physical or mental, that limits education, that deprives children of the right of comradeship, of play and of joy."
ALTHOUGH the juvenile court movement had made considerable progress prior to 1912 the changes in methods of dealing with conduct problems have been very marked since that time. The old idea held to punishment as a preventative. The objective now is to cure, not to punish. The child, not the offence, must be dealt with. Much skill is required to bring about cures and prevent delinquency under this modern procedure. In 1912 the first psychiatric clinic for the study of child delinquency was still viewed as an experiment. In 1932 there are more than six hundred psychiatric and child guidance clinics in operation. Physicians, psychiatrists, social workers and probation officers attached to courts, visiting teachers, special schools for truants, and classes for child training for parents are all part of the new procedure of prevention and cure in place of punishment.
PRESERVATION of the home is a controlling thought in the efforts of the best social agencies of this day. In spite of criticisms which have been brought against the homes of the present generation their value in the normal development of the child is recognized more today than twenty years ago. Public money used in 1912 for the care of children went almost entirely toward the support of institutions. The intelligent and affectionate care of parents is now recognized as the best insurance for the future of the child. Legislation has been enacted in forty-five states and the District of Columbia providing for "mothers' pensions" or "allowances" or "assistance to parents funds." In some states only children whose fathers are dead are eligible for this assistance while in others illness, desertion and imprisonment of fathers permits application of this type of aid. At the time of the first White House Conference in 1909 the first mother's aid pension law had not been passed. By 1921 approximately 120,000 children were being cared for in their own homes from tax funds under mother's aid laws and by 1930 the number had increased to 220,000. Children who must be cared for outside their own homes are now, insofar as possible, placed in foster homes, rather than institutions, which homes as nearly as possible provide the natural environment in which the particular child will best develop. The standards of care of dependent, delinquent, and neglected children have been further raised through the establishment of state bureaus in more than half the states to promote the welfare of children.
THE following four types of service represent the working methods of the organization. The first of these is the collection and analysis of facts about children gathered by first-hand investigations. Since the Bureau was established more than 200 such investigations based upon study of thousands of children have been made. Investigators, as well as other members of the Bureau's staff, are selected and assigned on the basis of their education and experience. The results of all investigations are verified and tabulated, interpreted by experts in the various divisions, edited and finally approved by the chief of the Bureau. The second type of service consists of interpretation and dissemination of information for practical use. In addition to the distribution of bulletins, previously referred to. The Bureau has answered hundreds of thousands of letters from mothers, and fathers also, giving information about the care of children. Radio talks on subjects pertaining to children have been prepared and broadcast by the Bureau and child hygiene films have been produced and shown throughout the country. The third method is cooperation with the states. It was in this way that the Sheppard-Towner act, for the promotion of the welfare and hygiene of maternity and infancy, in which Utah participated with such splendid results, was administered. The fourth method is the cooperation with public and private organizations and includes projects undertaken with other government departments, State and county medical and health agencies, universities, conferences of social work, and other organizations engaged in studies of child welfare and maternity.