The Salt of the Earth By Lella Marler Hoggan N expression little short of dismay clouded pretty Lelia McAllister's face, as she inspected the newly discovered run in her silk hose. "Just my luck," she soliloquized. "Of course it would be my best ones. And my only party dress is practically ruined." She smoothed out the silken folds of the long skirt, almost tenderly. Her cousin, Maud Stone, opened her eyes, and yawning' sleepily, reached for the alarm clock. "Three o'clock? I thought it was morning. What you doing up here at this time of night?" "Had a wreck." "A wreck!" ejaculated Maud, sitting up in bed in alarm. "Any. Body hurt?" "Not seriously. It sprained George's ankle, and cut up Hallie's face a little." "And you?" "Not even a bruise. But it wrecked my lovely orchid. Just look." And she held up the grease stained gown. "The cleaner can fix it without a blemish, I'm sure." "Yes, but where's the dollar and a half coming from?" "I?ll lend it to you." "Thank you, Maud, if you will. It took weeks of careful saving to pay for this outfit. And now, with the New Year's party only two days away, and a date with one of the richest boys in town, of course something would have to happen. Look at my beautiful hose." She slipped her hand into the stocking and revealed the long run. "Isn't that just tragic?" "It could have been worse, my dear. You might have broken your leg, you know, or even your neck." "I guess you're right,' admitted Lelia. "The car turned clear over, you see. But fortunately we lit in a snowbank." "Driver drunk?" "No, Max wasn't very drunk. It was the other fellow's fault." "Rather a late hour, don't you think, for respectable people to be getting home." "Possibly. But it's the regular time all high class parties break up." LELIA put the dress on a hanger and viewed it dismally. "I know I should be feeling thankful that no one was killed," she ruminated, "instead of thinking about the clothes. But that's what comes of being so blamed poor." "Don't take it so to heart, dear, I think you're a hundred times lucky." "I know I am. But oh, Maud, I could cry every time I look at these hose. What's the use?" she exclaimed desperately. "I?ll tell you I'm not going through life in one long drawn out wail of poverty. I'm going to marry a rich man. Then I'll not have to weep over a run in a little, old, measly pair of hose. I'm going to marry Max De Lane if I get the chance, regardless of all the pious warnings I'm receiving." "Well, Lelia," drawled Maud, yawning, "in a book of ancient history I sometimes read, there is a story of a bright young man who sold his birth-right for a mess of pottage. Maybe?" "Yes, I've heard of that gentleman before," interrupted Lelia. "I'm not at all interested in his foolish bartering. Besides, I expect to get more than a pair of silk hose out of the transaction."  "What, Lelia?" "Oh, money, and happiness, mayem "What about Dick?" "You're just like Mother, Maud, you always think of Dick Brandon." "Well, my dear, it's hard to think of your marriage without thinking of Dick. Besides, Dick is a wonderful fellow. My sister Eva says all the High School girls were wild about him last year." "Sure they were. He was the best all round athlete in school. Girls always fall for an athlete." "Oh, but Lelia, Dick is so fine? clean, honest, ambitious?" "Not very ambitious or he wouldn't accept a flunky job in the Paris Cafe." "Why, Lelia, I call that a good job. But flunky or not, if my lovely little sister Eva, were to marry Dick Brandon tomorrow, I would go down on my knees in gratitude." "That's just the way Mother would feel if I should marry him. I think she has a positive grudge against Max, just because he isn't like Dick." "No, Lelia, it isn't that. But she feels that Dick can be trusted. He is a man who will go on to bigger, finer things each year. She wants to secure for you, the same peace and contentment that her marriage has brought her." "Well, Mother's sure had a hard enough time raising us eight children. Her life has been one round of work and worry." "And love, and joy, and satisfaction," put in Maud. "Few women have been happier than your mother, Lelia." "Just the same, Maud, I'd sooner risk my happiness, curled up in the lap of luxury, than trudging down the hard beaten path of romance." "That's all right, Lelia, just so you aren't sorry too late." "You're getting preachy, Maud, and it's nearly four o'clock. I'm going to get a few winks before it's time to go to work again." "I hope you dream of Dick. I?d like to see the dear boy get an even break." LELIA did dream of Dick. But she hurriedly put the memory of it out of her mind: just as she had for many weeks, been crowding out of her remembrance, the many happy incidents surrounding' her school days with Dick. The fast social set of the town had taken Lelia into their circle. Her charming personality, her beauty, and her tact, were bringing her into the activities of a group whose ideals and mode of life were as foreign to her conservative Christian pattern, as night is today. The big event of the holiday season for this group, was a progressive breakfast planned for the New Year. It was to commence at midnight and continue until daybreak. Thanks to Cousin Maud, Lelia was in readiness for the party. Her orchid. Dress was restored to its original beauty and the long run in her silk stocking had disappeared. Max De Lane, the beau ideal of the group, was openly acclaimed as Lelia's suitor. And yet Max had no serious intentions for Lelia or any other girl. He lived fast, spent his money freely, and thought only of his own comfort and entertainment. The night of the party, his elegant coupe rolled up to the Little Old Inn just as the bells and whistles announced the coming of the New Year. He and Lelia were enthusiastically welcomed. And the first course of the New Year's breakfast was promptly served on tables gaily THE SALT OF THE EARTH 23 decked for the occasion. There was music, and laughter, and happy sociability. From the Little Old Inn the party proceeded to the Half-Way House for the second course of their breakfast. The gaiety grew more pronounced as the breakfast proceeded. Some of the women and all of the men were beginning to sip a little wine, and already, the cigarettes had been passed. Lelia refrained from taking either. From the Half-Way House they came to the Paris Cafe. The fourth, and last course of the breakfast, was to be served in a Japanese Restaurant, in an unfrequented quarter of the town. The merry makers were becoming somewhat hilarious, now. But as the merriment: rose Lelia became more serious. Repeatedly she was urged to be one with the rest, but she continued to refuse both the wine and cigarettes. As they thronged into the Paris Cafe her gaze at once centered on a. Stalwart white clad waiter, arranging the last details of the floral decorations. Her heart leaped at sight of him. He was outstanding in comparison with her group. She shifted her gaze when he turned toward her. Just as he drew her chair out from the table, the napkin at her plate fell to the floor. "I beg your pardon," he said quietly, but his laughing eyes were looking straight into hers with a fearless expression, almost a challenge it seemed to Lelia. HE met his gaze, however, with a counter challenge. In a moment he returned with a fresh napkin which he placed very carefully beside her plate. As Lelia spread the bit of linen across her lap, her eye caught a penciled marking on the hem. She looked down again cautiously. "Matt. 5:13," she read, in the writing she knew so well. She tried to give her attention to the meal. She pretended to be gay. But she scarcely saw the food before her. "Matthew, five, thirteen. Matthew, five, thirteen," came the words, beating like a tattoo on her heart. She knew it was a message from Dick, the need of which seemed to be most imminent. But try as she would, she could not recall the scripture passage it designated. Now she was eating some dainty dessert. Now she was trying to reply to some witticism of Max's. But above the laughter of the group, above the College songs of the radio, the little rhythmic words chanted in her heart, "Matthew, five, thirteen." Now she was finishing her dessert. In a few minutes the course would be through, and they would be starting for the Japanese Restaurant. "Hurry, hurry," whispered her heart. "Matthew, five?" oh, now she remembered. It was Christ's Sermon on the Mount. But what? what could it mean?" "The girl of my dreams is the sweetest girl in all the world I know," came the melody over the radio. "She drinks, she smokes, and she tells shady jokes," rang out Max's discordant parody. "Now, Baby," he bantered, holding his silver cigarette case across the table to her, "this breakfast is nearly over and you've missed all the fun. Come on, have a little smoke with me." Lelia's smile was pathetic but she did not reach for the case. "Drinks before smokes," announced Jerry Bates. "Here, pass me Lelia's glass. We're all going to have one on the New Year. What's your resolutions for the New Year, girls?" "Start with Bud," chorused the girls. "All right, Bud, you're at the head of the table. What's your New Year's resolution?" "Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die," groaned Bud. In a few minutes it would be Lelia's turn. Her fingers trembled as she toyed with her glass. And then, a little silent prayer stilled her throbbing pulses. "Matthew, five, thirteen." Now she knew.
THE laughing, drinking, hilarious group faded out like a shadow. For one moment she was sitting beside Dick in College Hall, listening to the baccalaureate sermon. The speaker's words rang out with such power that her soul thrilled to his forceful appeal. "Matthew, five, thirteen. "Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted?" Then followed his appeal to them to be true to their spiritual, their lineal inheritance. "Are you prepared," he asked, "to accept the blessings and promises that have come down to you through the ages? Those going before you have paid in pain, and blood, and tears for the spotless mantle they have placed on your shoulders. Are you willing to make a similar sacrifice in order to pass it on to the next generation without blemish?" "What's your New Year's resolution, Lelia?" She came back with a start. She was not trembling, now. Her white lips were set in a straight line. Raising her wine glass, she poured the red liquid into her dessert dish. Filling the glass with clear water, she touched it to her lips, and then raised it high. From a near table Dick was looking straight into her white face. "My New Year's wish and resolution in one," she announced. "During the coming year, may each of us live up to the fulness of the high privileges of law-abiding citizens, in this illustrious nation of ours, the United States of America." "Hey, you've missed your mark, little girl," shouted Jerry Bates. "This ain't the fourth of July. This is New Years." "Fine resolution, Baby," commended Max, glibly. "And now, you're going to have a little smoke with me." Again he reached the silver case across to her. "Thank you, I do not smoke," she announced, clearly. Motioning to Dick, she turned to the crowd. "I want you folks to meet my friend, Dick Brandon, the best athlete at our school last year. If you'll excuse me, please, I want Dick to take me home." "Ah, Lelia, be a sport," pleaded Bud. "Don't break up the party right in the middle of the fun." But Lelia had already turned to Dick. "Are you awfully busy?" "Never too busy to take orders from you, Lelia." With a bright smile she waved to the now serious group. "Happy New Year to you all!" Outside, she turned to Dick. "Thanks, Dick, for the rescue." "For awhile," he said, "I was afraid you hadn't seen it." "I saw it all right, but at first I just couldn't remember." "I never thought of that," said he. "Here comes your cab, Lelia. Say, if you'll wait for me, I'll be up about five tonight, and we'll go places. Will you wait that long?" "That long? Why, Dick, I'd wait years for you."