A Community Plan for the Prevention of Delinquency By Amy W. Evans
SAMUEL R. BLAKE, of Los Angeles, speaking before a community welfare group, organized for the prevention of juvenile delinquency, made this remarkable statement recently: "You are bringing together many community agencies and are working so effectively that you are just going to put the judge of the juvenile court out of business." This organization is called "the coordinating council." The idea originated in Berkeley, California, about twelve years ago, under the leadership of Captain August Vollmer. It was there so effective in solving the community's problems so far as the child is concerned, that it has been adopted in other parts of that State. The underlying idea in this plan as worked out in Berkeley is to bring together representatives of all the social agencies in the community, and then to coordinate them for the purpose of helping to answer the question, What can be done to prevent delinquency? Represented in this Berkeley council were the following social agencies: First, the school, as, next to the home, the greatest influence in the child's life, so far as his relations to society are concerned and in its ability to help him make the necessary adjustments; second, the recreation department of the community, which has it in its power to prevent delinquency and therefore to become an important agency in the council; third, such character-building organizations as the scouts, girls' clubs, and boys' clubs, which can contribute much to a community program; fourth, the police department, which is coming more and more to take on preventive work; fifth, the welfare organizations in the community, especially those dealing with family life, with a view to conserving the family; and, sixth, the church, which, of all the groups outside the home, is the most important in the life of the child. These agencies form the co-ordinating council in the Berkeley organization. A word more needs to be said of one of the units in the council?the police department. The police department as a preventive force is coming more and more into prominence in places where public sentiment is aroused to the importance of preventive measures. One progressive chief of police says, "There is a new type of police officer today. The new type is keenly interested in the prevention of delinquency. It is becoming a profession." The report of the White House Conference on delinquency says: "The police officer on his beat sees the origin of the corner gang, good or bad. Here lies his real field, the task of influencing early those individual and community forces before critical delinquent situations arise."
REPRESENTATIVES of these various agencies in Berkeley formed a case committee, before which came the cases of those children who were community problems in any way. After careful study the committee referred the child to the agency, or agencies, best prepared to solve the particular problem and to meet the needs of the child. All the resources of the community were to be used in the endeavor to make the necessary adjustment. This was done without any publicity whatever. The child did not even know about the existence of the Council. A sort of community case work was done also; the influences for good were known and capitalized, as well as those making for evil. The one was encouraged, the other either minimized or eliminated altogether. In 1931 representatives of the various agencies in Los Angeles, both the city and the county, under the leadership of Kenyon J. Scudder, chief probation officer of juvenile court, met to organize coordinating councils, following the Berkeley plan in the main. Since that time fourteen councils have come into existence there. Each month a council bulletin is issued. This contains reports of the work done by the various councils. In October, 1932, the bulletin of the Glendale council reported: "Our coordinating council has studied 56 cases. There has been satisfactory adjustment in 38 cases, some improvement in 14 cases, and no improvement in 4 cases." Another council reports that, in spite of no appropriation, it put on a community recreation program during the summer vacation period. The community cooperated to such an extent that the council was able to pay for bleachers, screens, lighting equipment, etc., and at the end of the vacation had a surplus of one hundred seventy dollars on hand, which was given to the family welfare agency. During that period only one case of delinquency came before the council, and that was found to be the case of a child who had not been in attendance at the playground. One of the coordinating councils under the direction of a trained leader, turned the energies of a mischievous gang of boys into a play group. These boys had been in the habit of congregating at night in a back alley, where they laid plans for mischief which they carried out. This spot was cleared out and lighted at night, and equipment for games placed in it.
THESE reports of the councils merely indicate the trend of these community programs for the prevention of delinquency among children. There appears to be considerable enthusiasm in each council district; a pride is taken in keeping down delinquency to a minimum. Also there appears to be an increasing awareness of community responsibility for the welfare of children. Perhaps this is due in part to the fact that the child is so early and powerfully influenced by his community in these days?through the radio, the motion picture, newspapers, commercialized recreation. In these ways he is brought into daily contact with ideas and amusements over which his parents, as individuals, have no control. Therefore, it would seem that group action is necessary to control these influences and to create others that are wholesome. A juvenile court judge of a large city says that, in his opinion, "delinquency and crime have their origin in childhood and youth," and that the "flow of delinquency into the court can be prevented in a very great measure by community effort and organization." In all this community effort the responsibility of the home is not lessened, for it is a very important part of any really effective plan. The late Judge Frederick P. Cabot, of Boston, says: "The greatest hope for the prevention of delinquency lies in the example set to the child by the adults with whom he associates, through habits of regularity, honesty, sincerity, and courage."