BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	This people doubtless remember that to-day,
June 1st, is the birthday of Brigham Young, one
of the most distinguished men of the nineteenth
century, and for more than thirty years Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
day Saints. His remarkable works are living
monuments to the memory of the illustrious
man who led the hosts of Israel through the
wilderness, and sought out a safe abiding place,
where towns and cities have been built, peace
and plenty multiplied and temples reared to the
Most High, and the standard of Zion unfurled
to all nations. Honor to the name of Brigham
Young. The children of the Saints should be
taught to revere his memory. It seems only a
slight tribute to the memory of such a man,that
the day of his birth should be remembered
by the people for whom he labored. The suc-
cessor of Joseph Smith, the great Prophet of the
last dispensation, and himself Prophet, Seer and
Revelator of the Church for so long a period. In
the journeyings of the Saints from Nauvoo, he
displayed the greatest ability as a leader, endur-
ing in common with the masses of the people
the toils and hardships incident to pioneer life,
ever encouraging and cheering them under all
trials and difficulties.
	To Brigham Young also belongs the credit of
practically establishing the institution of Celes-
tial Marriage, revealed through the Prophet Jo-
seph and taught during his lifetime, yet never
proclaimed publicly or the revelation published
to the world, until after the people had perma-
nently settled themselves in this Territory. It
took almost superhuman courage to face the op-
position which such an innovation upon tra-
dition and custom aroused. But Brigham Young
proved himself equal to the emergency, and
maintained the dignity of a man called of God
to bring about His divine purposes, through ev-
ery struggle brought to overthrow the practice
of this patriarchal law designed to benefit and
bless the human race.
	At an advanced age in life, he traveled exten-
sively, north, south, east and west, to organize
and strengthen the Stakes of Zion, and perfect
the order of the quorums of the Holy Priest-
hood. He was a true friend to the Indians, and
his policy was ever to preserve peace with them
and aid them in the path to civilization. Feed
them and clothe them, instead of fighting them,
was his manner of treatment. But for the wis-
dom and prudence he manifested towards these
savages at an early period in the settlement of
the country, there can be no doubt the lives and
property of the people would have been jeopar-
dized.
	Brigham Young re organized the Relief Soci-
ety, which placed woman upon a higher platform
than she had been heretofore considered entitled
	He originated the idea of Mutual Improve-

[Column 2]
ment Associations, such as exist for our young
people throughout the Church at the present
time. He set the pattern in his own family,and
called upon Sister Eliza R. Snow to organize his
own daughters into an Association. He after-
wards called upon Junius F. Wells to organize
the young men into Associations. He believed
in women holding the ballot, and was anxious
that the women of this Territory should enjoy
the franchise, and was instrumental in securing
to them this privilege. President Young was
also desirous the women of Zion should publish
a paper in their own interest, and was solicitous
that it should be extensively circulated,and that
the sisters should preserve their volumes and
have them bound, for, said he, "it will contain a
portion of Church history, the record of the
works and experiences of women," and in honor
of him the paper was first issued on his birthday,
the 1st of June, 1872. He also called upon the
sisters to store up grain against a day of need,
to use their influence to dissuade their husbands
from sending it out of the country. In short,
his life was made up of the excellencies of labor
in the interests of Zion. To enumerate all his
strong and marked characteristics and unwearied
labors would require greater ability than we pos-
sess, and would fill volumes. He was indeed a
man of the people, raised up when there was
desperate need of strength of character and a
will indomitable in surmounting difficulties
brought to bear against the chosen people of God.
The mantle of Joseph fell upon him, and
he was, it seemed, instantaneously endowed with
power from on high, preparatory to the great
work assigned him to do. His labors were in-
deed arduous, we might say the burdens laid up-
on him wore grievous to be borne, but his
strength was equal to his day. He has finished
his work here and passed behind the vail to join
Joseph and Hyrum and the hosts who are
awaiting the morning of the first resurrection.
In closing, we will quote a stanza from the poem
written upon his death and burial, by Eliza R.
Snow:

There sleeps, the weary flesh, and rests in peace,
While he, the master-spirit of the age,
Associates with the first great leader of
This Dispensation in the ocurts above.

He loved his people—their high destiny
Will be a monument to Brigham Young.


