[CONCLUDED.]

	There are no doubt many still living who
remember the perilous times in Kirtland. I
can recollect a time when it was unsafe for a
woman or child to be found alone on the street
after sundown, and when the graves had to be
closely guarded or they were robbed by students
who came from Willoughby, and thought it no
sacrilege to dissect a "Mormon" dead or alive.
To illustrate, I will relate one or two incidents.
A young girl named Rhoda Ballard (who was
living in the family of Bishop N. K. Whitney,
and was afterwards married to his brother Ly-
man) started near sundown to go to her Aunt's
who lived on the opposite side of the river that
runs through Kirtland, there was a foot bridge
across it; but just as she came to it two young
men riding in a buggy stopped and invited
her to ride across which she declined, they then
urged her and she was about to accept when
the horses commenced rearing and being fright-
ened she started to run when one of them who
had got out to help her in tried to put a plaster
over her mouth, but missing his aim, her
screams were heard by a man near by who
came to her rescue; when the fiends saw him
they dropped her and drove swiftly across the
river towards Willoughby. This is no fiction,
as the following will also be remembered by
many, more especially by members of Ezekiel
Johnson's family who were then living near
neighbors to us under the hill as we came
down from Chagrin southeast of Kirtland.
Several of them died from consumption and
were buried on the hill near their house, they
had to be guarded and I was informed that for
weeks they were in the habit of tying a strong
rope to a bier, which was turned over the grave
and the other end to the arm of some one who
slept up stairs; for each one who died, this
course was pursued; three or four of that family
are now living in the southern part of this
Territory.
	One of their sisters that died had beeu our
teacher in Sunday School which she kept at
their house. We were in the habit of reciting
portions or whole chapters to her from the
New Testament and how delighted we felt
when she presented us with pretty little Prim-
ers containing "Babes in the Woods," "Robin
Hood" etc., etc. The mention of this brings to
mind so many sweet remembrances of "the
long ago" when life and all was new and bright
and fair.

"And all was sunshine in each little breast."
'Twas there we chased the slipper by the sound;
And turned the blindfold hero round and round.
'Twas here at eve, we form'd our fairy ring,
And fancy fluttered on her wildest wing,
Giants and genii chain'd each wondering car,
And orphan sorrows drew the ready tear.
Oft with the babe we wander'd in the wood,
Or view'd the forest-feasts of Robin Hood:
Oft fancy led at midnight's fearful hour,
With startling step we scaled the lonely tower;
O'er infant innocence to hang and weep,
Murder'd by rufian hands when smiling in its sleep."

"Lull'd in the countless chambers of the brain,
Our thoughts are link'd by many a hidden chain.
Awake but one, and lo, what myriads rise!
Each stamps its image as the other flies.
Each as the various avenues of sens[--]
Delight or sorrow to the soul dispense,
Brightens or fades yet all with magic art,
Control the latent fibres of the heart."
		Roger's Pleasures of memory.
	These lines from that beautiful little Poem
are so expressive and they remind us of our

[Column 2]
own infant years. Dear are the memories of
childhood of the old familiar faces and scenes
that we loved so well, but all, all are gone from
our sight, and should not this remind us that
"life is but a span?" Then let us see that we are
walking in the straight and narrow path that
when our journey is ended, we will not feel
ashamed to meet our Maker.
	On the 13th, of June at nine A. M., my
father and brethren bade adieu to their famil-
ies and friends in Kirtland and started without
purse or scrip to preach the Gospel in a foreign
land, the first Elders to Great Britain. My
mother and children with a number of brethren
and sisters accompanied them to Fairport.
Sister Mary Fielding, who afterwards became
the wife of Hyrum Smith, gave my father five
dollars with which he paid the passage of him-
self and Brother Hyde to Buffalo. If I rem-
ember rightly she lived with my mother from
that time until married to Brother Hyrum.
	The following is the preface to a pamphlet
published by Robert B. Thompson giving an
account of my father's first mission to Great
Britain and the commencement of the work of
the Lord in that land.
	"It is well known to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints as well as to the
community in general; that the labors of the
Elders have not been confined to this conti-
nent, but that the sound of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ has been heard upon the Islands of the
Sea; and in Great Britain numbers have heard
and rejoiced in the same. Some communica-
tions have been published by the Elders who
have visited that land, which were read with
deep interest by the Saints, who were informed
in the last number of the "Elders Journal,"
published in Far West, Missouri; that I in-
tended to publish a pamphlet giving a detail of
all the principal transactions of the Elders.
while in England; which publication was ar-
dently desired by the Church, and more par-
ticularly by those who had formerly dwelt, and
whose friends yet resided there. But on ac-
count of the unparalleled persecution which has
taken place, and the scattered condition of the
Saints, the publication of the same has been
delayed. Although the Saints have endured
great afflictions, and suffered many things yet
their desire for the prosperity of the cause of
truth and righteousness, is not abated; and their
anxiety to hear of the labors of the servants of
the Lord in a distant nation is probably greater
than ever. A belief that the persual of the
Journal of Elder Kimball would be a source
of comfort to the Saints, and a cause of rejoic-
ing to those who have had to drink of the cup
of sorrow and affliction, and likewise a source
of information and instruction to the Saints
generally, has induced me to publish the same
to the world. The generality of the Saints are
acquainted with Elder Kimball, whose labor of
love and humility is known by all who have
had the pleasure of his acquaintance: while
his uniform conduct and humility since he has
been a member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, while engaged in different
offices, and in circumstances the most trying
and painful, render it superfluous for me to
attempt to pass any eulogium on his character,
and speak louder than volumes in his praise.
My acquaiutance with him commenced in the
spring of 1837. Feeling a deep interest in the
mission about to be taken to my native country,
I cultivated an acquaintance with all those who
were going there; and it was no small gratifica-
tion to me when I learned that Brother Kim-
ball was to have the superintendence of that
mission. The day appointed for the departure
of the Elders to England having arrived, I
stept into the house of Brother Kimball to
ascertain when he would start, as I expected to
acompany him two or three hundred miles; in-
tending to spend my labors in Canada that sea-
son. The door being partly open, I entered.


[Column 1]
and felt struck with the sight which presented
itself to my view. I would have retired, think-
ing I was intruding, but I felt rivetted to the
spot: The father who was appointed to super-
intend the mission to England, was pouring out
his soul to that,

"God who rules on high,
	Who all the earth surveys;
That rides upon the stormy sky
	And calms the roaring seas."

that he would grant him a prosperous voyage
across the mighty ocean, and make him useful
wherever his lot should be cast, and that He
who "careth for sparrows" and "feedeth the
young ravens when they cry," would supply
the wants of his wife and little ones in his
absence. He then, like the Patriarchs, and by
virtue of his office, laid his hands upon them
individually, leaving a father's blessing upon
and commending them to the care and
protection of God, while he should be engaged
preaching the Gospel in a foreign land. While
thus engaged, his voice was almost lost in the
sobs of those around who tried in vain to sup-
press them. The idea of being separated from
their protector and father for so long a time
was indeed painful. He proceeded, but his
heart was too much affected to do so regularly;
his emotions were great, and he was obliged to
stop at intervals, while the big tears rolled
down his cheeks, an index to the feelings which
reigned in his bosom. My heart was not stout
enough to refrain, in spite of myself I wept, and
mingled my tears with theirs; at the same time
I felt thankful that I had the privilege of con-
templating such a scene.
	I realized that nothing could induce that man
to tear himself from so affectionate a family
group, from his partner and children, who are
so dear to him—nothing but a sense of duty
and love to God, and attachment to his cause,
I prayed that the Lord would bless the labors
of his servant, give him a prosperous voyage,
make him a blessing in my native land, by
bringing many into the kingdom of Christ; that
He would be merciful to his family, and when
it was wisdom in God that he should return,
that he might be brought home in safety, and
rejoice with his beloved family in recounting
the mercies of the Lord. This the Lord has
done in a remarkable manner, and few, if any,
have been as successful as Brother Kimball.
Yet we do not find him boasting in his own
strength; no, he knows it is the Lord's doings,
and that he was only an instrument in his
hands, notwithstanding the great success which
has attended the labors of this servant of the
Lord, the same humility characterizes him, for
which he has been so frequently admired.
The Elders of Israel would do well to copy his
example, and I hope they will receive some
instructions from a perusal of this work par-
ticularly those who may visit Great Britain.
One great cause of his usefulness was, that he
attended closely to the commandments of
heaven, and preached the Gospel in its simplicity
and plainness; without meddling with abstruse
and dark passages, which are only a source of
speculation and tend to strife rather then sal-
vation. It undoubtedly would be pleasing to
the Elders who returned from distant lands to
find their families enjoying the blessing of
peace; but this was denied our brother; for
after a hard and laborious mission, enduring
great fatigue in traveling, and his body reduced
by sickness, he in common with the Saints had
to be driven from his home and be subject to
all the hardships and trials consequent on a re-
moval in the depth of winter from the state of
Missouri. Yet none of these things moved him,
for no sooner was his family in a place of safety
and amongst the Saints, than he prepared for
another mission, and with the Twelve Apostles,
excepting Lyman, Wight, John C. Page and
William Smith, takes his journey to the scenes
of his former labors.

[Column 2]
	The success which has attended the ministry
of the Elders in England and Scotland, is cer-
tainly encouraging and hardly has its parallel
in the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. Although it has been
principally received by the poor, who have
flocked to hear the tidings of salvation, yet
there are some men of wealth and influence,
who have embraced the Gospel with all their
hearts, and who rejoice in its precious truths.
The information received from the Twelve and
Elders who are now in that land, is of the most
cheering character. A circumstantial account
of which will be found in the Journal."
	From what has been already accomplished,
the Saints can look forward with assurance that
the purposes of the Almighty will be accom-
plished, and that the streams of knowledge
shall flow throughout the world, at which every
honest heart shall drink and satiate until the
knowledge of the Lord shall cover the earth,
as the waters cover the deep.

When at first the work began,
	Small and feeble was its day;
Now the word doth sweetly run,
	Now it wins its widening way:
More and more it spreads and grows
	Ever mighty to prevail,
Sins strong hold it now o'erthrows,
	Shakes the trembling gates of hell.

