WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 5


A REORGANIZATION of the Primary Associa-
tion of South Cottonwood was effected on Mon-
day, May 24th, the former President, Mrs. Mar-
tha G. Young, having resigned, on account of
leaving the Ward. Mrs. Young has labored dil-
igently in the position, and been very successful
in bringing the children forward. Bishop Raw-
lins selected as her successor, Mrs. Elizabeth
Davis, President, and a complete new board of
officers. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson organized.
The meeting was an interesting one. Much
good instruction was given by Sister E. R. S.
Smith and other sisters. The Bishop made a
few closing remarks.

	THE Old Folks' Excursion this year will take
place on the 22nd of June, the birthday of the
veteran, Bishop Edward Hunter. On that day
this illustrious father in Israel will be 88
years old. It has been decided that the excur-
sion go to Ogden, which seems to offer better fa-
cilities for enjoyment than any other place. Bro.
C. R. Savage, who is on the committee, tells us
they will take in old folks by the way at all the
stations on the route, and that the party will be
lemonaded and serenaded. One must feel sure
of the success as far as arrangements for en-
joyment is concerned, knowing the committee
to be Bishop Edward Hunter, George Goddard
and C. R. Savage. Particulars will be given in
full in due time.

	ON Wednesday afternoon, May 24, Mrs. R. B.
Pratt, M. D., delivered a most interesting and
instructive lecture in the Social Hall, exclusive-
ly to ladies, for the benefit of a sister who is
about to graduate at Ann Arbor, Mich. Mrs.
Pratt is a pleasing speaker and her manner of
delivery is easy. The lecture was indeed mul-
tum in parvo, but we regret to say it was not
very well attended. The subjects of hygiene and
physiology of the human system must be more
generally understood ere that progress can be
made in race and condition which is expected
will be the result of a higher education. The
young ladies and mothers would do well to de-
vote some time and means to acquire knowledge
upon these subjects and not leave it to the phy-
 sicians alone. It is an imperative duty that every
woman should know something concerning the
forces and attributes of her own being. Towards
the close of the lecture the Dr. laid before the
audience some plain facts substantiating physi-
ologically the system of plural marriage, from
which we will make a few extracts in our next
issue.


