HOME AFFAIRS.

	UTAH COUNTY.—The total number of names
enrolled for the Utah County Primary Associa-
tion, and deposited in the Jubilee Box, are two
thousand two hundred and forty-seven. Twen-
ty-four Associations in this county are in a flour-
ishing condition, and are thus represented.
					NETTIE SOUTHWORTH,
								Secretary.

	THE Conference of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P.
A. of Salt Lake Stake, will be held on the 17th and
18th insts., in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms.
The presidents and officers of all the branches of
these organizations in the County are earnestly
soliclted to be present, as also all the members
and others who can attend. The Presidency of
the Stake and Bishops are cordially invited to be
present. Secretaries should send in their reports
as early in June as possible.

	MR. and Mrs. A. J. Boyer, both newspaper
correspondents from San Francisco, are spending
a few days in this city. Mrs. Boyer for four orfive years edited the "Golden Dawn," a very
able magazine, devoted to woman's work. She
is best known by her nom de plume, "Dora
Darmoore." The lady is a talented writer of both
prose and poetry. The lady is on her way to
visit friends in the East. We wish them a
pleasant sojourn in the City of the Saints.

	ON Sunday afternoon, May 22nd, a
Primary Association was organized in Big Cot-
tonwood Ward. Bishop and Counselors were
present, also Sister Elizabeth Howard, presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Ward, and Sis-
ters E. R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. Bishop Brinton selected the officers
and Sister Eliza organized. Esther H. Davis,
President; Mary Nielsen and Mary W. Brinton,
Counselors; Mary Sutherland, Secretary; Brana-
ham B. Bitner, Assistant Secretary; Louise
Brockbank, Treasurer. Ninety-six names en-
rolled.

	TUESDAY, May 17, a Primary Association was
organized in the 21st Ward, Bishop Burt and
Counselors being in attendance. A large num-
ber of the leading sisters were present and much
good instruction was given to the children and
parents on the training of the little folks. Sister
Eliza R. S Smith effected the organization:
Bishop Burt making the selection of officers.
Mary Davis, President; Elizabeth Gange and
Mary Ann Higham, Counselors; Fusion Smith,
Secretary; Alice Steers, Assistant Secretary;
Arthur Castleton, Treasurer. One hundred and
thirty names were enrolled.


