6	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


We are little, I know, but that's no reason why
	We cannot enjoy ourselves here,
And if we are good, and serve God as we should,
	Then we will have nothing to fear.

We love our dear meetings, our President too,
	And pray for her every day,
That long she may live, good counsel to give,
	That none of us here go astray.

*		*		*		*		*		*

	Arthur Woods, recitation; Rosa Bonquist, re-
citation; Mabel Park recited, with the peculiar
Scotch accent, "Noo barnies, cuddle doon;" Eli-
zabeth Braby, "Word of Wisdom;" Edgar Spiers,
four years old recited, "Stop, stop that rain
till I go out to play."
	Sister Eliza and other ladies addressed the child-
ren upon faith, virtue, prayer and other subjects
of importance and commended them for the
good order they had observed, and also for ren-
dering their respective parts so creditably to
themselves and those who presided over them.
	President Teasdale in a pleasing manner made
a few interesting remarks, and sung a hymn,
previously requesting the children to join in the
chorus, "Let the Saints prepare to meet Him."
Bishop Speirs made appropriate remarks, also
Miss Edmunds one of the Counselers: sang
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."
Benediction by Counselor James Woods.
	During the exercises Mrs. E. B. Wells was
presented with a vase of delicate white wax
flowers,—gracefully entwined around a cross—
blue-bells, morning glories, calla lily, pond
lily, heliotrope, ivy etc., all exquisitely artistic
in design and very beautiful in workmanship.
Miss Blanche W. Woods delivered the following
address, in a very happy manner:
	SISTER E. B. WELLS, in behalf of the 10th
Ward Primary Association permit me to say
that we remember with pleasure that two years
ago the 15th of this month, we were honored
with your presence in this house, at which time
you organized the children of this ward into a
Primary Association, with Sister Jennie McLean
as President and Sisters Edmunds and Speirs as
Counselors, since that time we have held meet-
ings regularly, and have been greatly blessed,
and though as children we have been at times
a little wayward, yet we hope that under the
wise and prudent counsel of our president, and
the excercise of a great deal of patience on her
part, we have made some improvement in our
manners, in our habits, and that our faith in
God our Father has increased, and that we are
better able to understand the gospel of His Son,
Jesus Christ.
	We feel assured, therefore, that your labors
have not been in vain, and we pray for you that
you may live long upon the earth, that your
valuable services in the defence of truth and
right may thus be continued, and that you may
have joy in your labors, for we know that you
will ever be remembered in the hearts of the
children of the Latter-day Saints in the Tenth
Ward, and that many in the future will rise up
and call you blessed.
	We now, therefore, ask you to accept this
slight token of our regard, as a memento to
which you may in the future refer and know
that you are remembered by the Primary Asso-
ciation of the Tenth Ward.
	The president, Mrs. McLean, was presented
with a handsome motto, "Praise God from whom
all blessings flow," etc., wrought with silk and
beautifully framed, made and given by Miss
Lydia Bullough.


