					ROBERT B. THOMPSON.

[Column 3]
more choice of it than she of her one sack of
flour; but alas, for the hopes founded on the
perishable things of the world, flour as well as
gold fails us sometimes. She thought for sev-
eral days that something about the house
smelled peculiar; and determined to find out
the meaning; on investigation she found a
mouse in her sack of flour. The smell had
thoroughly impregnated the flour and ren-
dered it unfit for use. She felt the loss severely,
and those who have plenty and waste their
hundreds of pounds yearly would scarcely
sympathize with her, or understand her feel-
ings. It was the staff of life and even money
could not replace it. Minnie owned a small
pony which her uncle had brought her and she
had succeeded by the help of her friends in
holding claim on it when he went away. It
was a great favorite, and she spent many
happy hours on his back galloping over the
hills and enjoying the pure air of her mountain
home. She was a good horse-woman, and
could saddle and care for him as well as any
one, and he was so small, just right for a lady's
pet; but she must part with him, for she could
no longer afford him food, and if turned on the
range he would do her no good and would very
likely be lost. They were in need, and the
paetty pony must be sold. She shed many
tears at parting with him, but necessity is a
stern master and brooks no delay. All was gone
now but the gold watch and jewels her father
had sent her, and she would suffer much before
parting with them. Minnie was pretty and at-
tractive and, young as she was, she had plenty
of opportunities of marrying; but she felt too
childish to entertain such ideas, she scarcely
knew what love was except the love of kindred,
neither did marriage offer any indncement cal-
culated to induce her to accept the conditions.
The young men were poor, and if one could
build him a cabin and get a team, he was
thought to have a good start, and indeed it was
all one could expect in a new country like this. 
The young people married and went to work
together to make a living, as early settlers
must do everywhere. Land was plenty and
they could raise their provisions, and other
things came but slowly: but somehow children
do not wait for that, but come just as fast as if
their coming made no trouble or expense, and
large families are common in such cases living
in a small house, with very few superfluities
in the way of clothing, but although simply
clad healthy, happy and often hungry without
a care or thought for the future. Marriage
under such circumstances was not alluring even
for one with so poor a home, and as Minnie was
not in love she saw no beauty in it. 
	Several kind friends offered to take Mary
under their protecting care and make a suitable
home for her children; but her feelings revolted
at the thought of marrying again under any
circumstances, and she was not at all in the
humor to accept attentions from the other
sex; her heart was too sore over her recent
disappointment.
				To be continued.


