SAMARIA.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—The second annual
meeting of the Primary Association of Samaria
was held Friday evening May 6, 1881, in the
meeting house before a large and well filled
audience several of the Priesthood of the Ward
being present; the evening's entertainment con-
sisted of a song by ten little girls entitled
"Jesus once of humble birth" prayer by Bishop
Evans, singing by the children; "Work for the
night is coming," recitations, songs, dialogues,
were then spoken. Five little girls were then
catechised and songs were sung. Essay on Ob-
edience, one song by a boy and some little girls
between three and five years of age, one recita-
tion a boy four years of age. We then had a
song from ten little girls entitled "God speed
the right." My thoughts went back to the
time of the organization and I could see then
that we had made a little progress since; it
is true it seems slow work with the little ones
while laboring with them, but I feel thankful
to the Lord for his Holy Spirit; that enables
us to persevere in this great and important
work, having faith and praying to the Lord for
strength to lead and guide us all; realizing that
the time will come when these associations will
stand forth a great and mighty host battling
for truth, and they petition to God for blessings
on those that organized them and placed them
in a position where they could be taught in the
laws of their Heavenly Father while they were
young that as they grow in years they may be
preserved from outside influences and from
wolves in sheep's clothing who seek to draw, the
young from the fold, and to bring destruction
upon the people of God. Oh, mothers I would
say, assist your children in their organizations
encourage them to attend their meetings, and
also attend them yourselves do not think it too
much trouble they will repay you in the future;
becoming bright and shining lights crowned
with immortality and eternal lives; may our
Heavenly Father bless all that strive to teach
the young and rising generation is the prayer
of your co-laborers.
	Mrs. Amy Davies, President P. A., Mary
Ann Williams, and Annie Camp Counselors,
Agnes E. Bowen, Secretary, Rebecca Morse,
Asst. Sec'y. George Davies, Treasurer.
	Members enrolled 53; average attendance 35;
meetings held during the year 25; testimonies
borne 111; number of books 2; chapters read
from the Bible and Book of Mormon 12; sec-

[Column 2]
tions from the Doctrine and Covenants 8; read-
ings from miscellaneous 17; essays, recitations,
61; songs 6; classes catechised 2; wheat gleaned
5 bushels; home industries, straw braiding,
