				CONTINUED.
	Sister Eliza's visits while in the Holy Land
to the places of note are all thrillingly set forth
in the Book of Letters published some time
after the return of the Palestine party, and
would be instructive to our young people. On
Sunday March the 2nd. 1873, President George
A. Smith and party, Sister Eliza included,
went on horseback to the Mount of Olives, and
ascended the summit. They sent before them
tent, table, seats and carpet. On this Mount is
the "Church of Ascension" which they visited;
it is said to stand on the very spot where Jesus
ascended. The tent was pitched and service
was conducted there after the manner of the
Holy priesthood as revealed in this dispensa-
tion; strange must it have seemed to those
Pilgrims,so to speak,to gather upon this sacred
Mount, so famed in Scripture, and renowned
throughout all civilized lands, and where Jesus
spoke to the people, hundreds of years before,
dedicate and consecreate that land anew, to the
gathering of the Jews and the rebuilding of
Jerusalem. Strange too that a woman should
take part in this peculiar work as did Eliza at
that time in worshiping in that holy place, per-
mitted to wander where in that remarkable era
wandered Mary the mother of Jesus and
Elizabeth. A sort of link to bind the women
of that wonderful age to the women of this
latter dispensation.
	The day following the Sabbath spent upon
the Mount of Olives, Sister Eliza visited the
"Mosque of Omar" famous among Moham-
medans. She says "it is the best Edifice in Jer-
usalem." There were many interesting places
and things to attract one like her in traveling
up and down this land of the past. On the
evening of the 4th, the Jewish Rabbi Abraham
Askenasi and three others called upon President
Smith's party at their tent, and the "Mormons'
and Jews had a most interesting interview

[Column 2]
Sister Eliza was charmed "with the scenic view
of the surroundings of this ancient site of time-
honored memories," and a "feeling of reluctance"
that she bade Jerusalem farewell.
	On the 5th, the party resumed their journey,
passed the "Gibbeah of Saul," and rode on to
Bethel, the place of Jacob's vision, and en-
camped in a mountainous romantic spot where
clear, pure water flowed from the almost per-
pendicular rocks. The next day they passed
the Mosque of Shiloh; the country was exced-
ingly picturesque: they stopped at Jacob's
Well near the entrance to the valley, between
Mt. Ebal and Mt. Gerizim. Here the party
took every bit of cord and rope attainable and
drew water from this celebrated well, Near
this well is the place where it is supposed Jesus
asked the Samaritan woman for water.
Traveling on and passing Scriptural places al-
most continuously, they reached at length "the
memorable city of Nazareth. Sister Eliza says
Nazareth is a dirty town almost filthy and con-
tains a large number of beggars; and that she
was forcibly reminded of the question of Nath-
aniel "Can any good come out of Nazareth?"
Notwithstanding the poverty of the place the
people in personal attire are cleanly, many of
them dressing in pure white from top to toe,
and in this respect do not at all correspond
with the views of their dwellings from the out-
side, which are neglected and untidy in appear-
ance- But the city (Nazareth) is immortalized
as being the home of our blessed Savior here
upon the earth. While there Sister Eliza tells
us of a large company of Armenians on a pil-
grimage to Jerusalem. She says, "I walked
into their midst and the closer view increased
my heart-ache for poor, degraded hummanity."
Leaving Nazareth the Palestine tourists passed
over the plains of Galilee; and from time to
time saw many wandering Arabs, or Bedouins,
traveling from place to place,with their fam-
ilies, flocks and herds, and camping as con-
venient for agriculture,pasturage and such like
purposes.
	Possibly Sister Eliza herself, scarcely con-
ceived all the peculiar grandeur of this journey,
or realized its bearing in full force while travel-
ing over these once consecrated, but now some-
what desolated plains and places of renown;
but we will venture to assert that no woman
holding the same rank and prestige, be she
queen or princess, has ever trod those immor-
talized plains since the days of Mary and Eliza-
beth. Eliza has been permitted "by the grace
of God," to stand in holy places, and pause by
the surging waters, memorable forever from
historical association with Jesus, Mary and
their co-laborers in that dispensation. To even
mention all these points of interest would
scarcely be consistent with our space, but we
must pause at the beautiful Sea of Galilee, so
famed in the history of our Savior. Here as at
almost all the eminently, remarkable points in
the journey, the inspiration of the Muse drew
forth from this "Mormon" poetess, sojourning
in the Hebrew land what we designate a song
of the sea. It is however entitled, "At the Sea
of Galilce." No doubt the most sublime and
holy emotions filled the soul of this gifted wo-
man, as she stood as it were entranced in the
visions of the marvelous past, the fruitful
present and the glorious future. Endowed with
blessings and powers from under the hands of
the prophet of the last dispensation she pos-
sessed a talisman to unravel much that would be
closed to others, and like a daughter of the
Psalmist she poured forth in musical rhythm a
few of her thoughts by this Scriptural Sea, of
which we give a verse or two.

"I have stood on the shore of the beautiful sea,
The renown'd aud immortalized Galilee,
When 'twas wrapp'd in repose at eventide,
Like a royal queen in her regal pride.

[Column 3]"I thought of the present—the past; it seem'd
That the silent sea with instruction teem'd;
For often, indeed, the heart can hear
What never, in sound, has approached the ear.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"There's a depth in the soul, that's beyond the reach
Of all earthly sound—of all human speech,
A fiber too sacred and pure to chime
With the cold, dull music of Earth and Time.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"Again when the shades of night, were gone,
In the clear bright rays of the morning dawn,
I walked on the bank of this self-same Sea,
Where once our Redeemer was wont to be."

	While Sister Eliza walked by the Sea of
Galilee, there came a young daughter of Juda,
who after the oriental custom filled an earthen
jar with sea-water, placed it on her head and
walked away; she followed her and by signs
gave her to understand she wished to accompany
her home. The girl was pleased and on enter-
ing her home the young Jewess introduced her
to her mother, they showed her their garden,
and the young lady taking from her the pretty
wild-flowers she had in her hand gave her some
green branches of hyssop to which shrub she
says, they seem to attach a great deal of con-
sequence.
			To be continued.


