AT REST.

	Another faithful Saint has been called from
this world of care and sorrow to share in the joy,
blessings, and enjoy the society of the just made
perfect by suffering. On the 18th of May, at
her residence in the 4th Ward, Provo, Mrs.
Hannah Booth, wife of Bishop J. E. Booth, and
daughter of George P. and Edith Billings, after
an illness of three weeks, passed away from
earth to her eternal home. The funeral services
were conducted at the Provo meeting house,
May 20th. Mrs. Booth was born March 12, 1852,
in Provo. Sister Hannah will be missed from
the ranks of those who are patiently striving to
labor for the advancement of God's kingdom on
the earth. She held the dual offices of Counsel-
or to the Y. L. M. I. A. and President of the 4th
Ward Primary Association for several years.
During the past year she has faithfully discharg-
ed the duties of a school teacher in the Ward.
She accepted the position as she did all other re-
sponsibilities, from a sense of duty, discharging
them faithfully and humbly. That her labors were
appreciated, was made manifest by the loving
attentions of friends, and the groups of anxious
little faces which came during her illness to en-
quire how their dear teacher was. Truly has it
been said of her, "She served the Lord in sober-
ness and purity," and was a true, devoted, loving
wife and friend; her faithfulness can only be ap-
preciated now that she is beyond all earthly cures.
O, what a satisfaction it is when we see a
Saint go to rest, surrounded by husband, parents,
relatives and friends, who watch the departing
spirit with the knowledge that "the loved one"
has lived to merit all the blessings which mor-
tals are entitled to, who have lived in accordance
with all of the commandments given to the
Saints. Never was the divine principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage more honored than by Sister
Hannah.
	She sang the hymn, "I'll praise my Maker
while I've breath," a few moments before she
died, her countenance revealing the bliss her
spirit had caught a glimpse of. All outward
emotions were suppressed, for we knew we stood
in the holy presence of angels who had come to
bear to her heavenly home the celestial spirit of
our beloved Hannah.
