READ AT THE ASSOCIATION IN THE ELEVENTH
WARD.

	I have been appointed to write an essay on
this most-talked-of subject, and I have tried to
express a few of my ideas upon it. I do not
think it consists altogether in not taking tea,
coffee and strong drinks, but we should use
wisdom in every act of our lives. For instance,
it is not wisdom for us young people to keep
late hours, as there are so many temptations to
lead astray the unsuspecting, nor is it wisdom
for us to dress our bodies in that way and man-
ner that is both unbecoming and unhealthy and
sinful in the sight of the Lord. It is not wis-
dom for us to associate with those that are not
of us, for many are wicked and designing, and
would lead us from the paths of virtue and
truth. Neither is it wisdom for us to make
gluttons of ourselves in taking everything that
our appetites crave and that will injure us both
bodily and spiritually. We all will admit that
tea, coffee, tobacco, strong drinks and meats
are good in their place, and if we should learn
to use them for the purpose Nature intended
and that they were created for. There are a
great many other things that could be said on
this subject, but which I will leave till some fu-
ture day; and in the meantime, let us try to
practice the "Word of Wisdom" in the few
matters that I have written upon, and that we
may all have strength to do so is my earnest
desire.				FLORENCE RIDGES.


Mr. Mason secured Friday, May 27th, for
the discussion of his Resolution, in the House
of Commons, England: "That in the opinion
of this House the parliamentary franchise
should be extended to women who possess the
qualifications which entitle men to vote, and
who, in all matters of local government, have
the right of voting."
	The "History of Woman Suffrage," edited
by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony
and Matilda Joslyn Gage, is to be issued in two
royal octavo volumes, nearly one thousand
pages each, illustrated with many fine steel
portraits of eminent women. Volume 1 is now
ready, contains 878 pages and 12 steel en-
gravings. Sold only by subscription. Price,
bound in heavy cloth, imitation morocco, per
volume, $5.00 in full calf; marble edges, per
volume, $6.50. Agents wanted, to whom spe-
cial terms and territory will be given. Ad-
dress—Fowler, & Wells, Publishers, 753 Broad-
way, New York.


