BY HANNAH T. KING.
	When names are rendered mighty by good deeds
	Titles are dropt as husks that bore the seeds;
	The name alone is all that need be traced,
	By that the marble is in beauty graced—
	And that alone an Epitaph will form,
	For him, not one, but many nations mourn.

	On the entrance of Disraeli into Parliatment,
Mr. Wyndham Lewes was his colleague, both
being Commoners; from that time a close friend-
ship sprang up between them, and continued
till the death of Mr. Lewes;—I think I am
right in saying that Disraeli was one of the
executors of his will. He had been an efficient
servant of the State, and through the sugges-
tions and influence of Disraeli, the title of
Viscountess Beaconsfield, in her own right,
was conferred on his widow; years after, she
became the wife of Disraeli. The Queen had
desired for some time to raise him to the peer-
age, but he had always firmly but respectfully
declined the honor; but on his marriage her
wishes became commands, and he then was in-
vested with the title of Earl of Beaconsfield,
and after his return from signing the treaty
of Berlin, Her Majesty conferred on him the
Order of the Garter, which is the highest honor
of the English crown. "Honor to whom honor
is due" is the Scriptural injunction, and we
feel gratified that it was largely bestowed on
one who, step by step, and by an indomitable
will and a far-seeing judgment, had nobly
earned it all. He is pronounced by friend and
foe to have been the greatest statesman Eng-
land has possessed since William Pitt; he has
left a position none can at present take up.
His loss can only be estimated by time, and
the experiences it will unavoidably bring. At
the present time England could ill spare her
noble pilot from the helm of the Ship of State,
with his calm, clear brain, his strong hand and
unflinching will. "Although the leading spirit
has departed, those remain who, by long asso-
ciation, have drunk deep at the fountain head,
and can still diffuse its essence. He it
was who rescued England from her
degraded position, and placed her high in the
councils of the world. He taught nations to
respect her name and honor her traditions. His
manly courage and firmness enforced respect
and confidence. The high position then at-
tained remained with the great Tory chief un-
til his death, and all the world is ready to do
homage to his loyalty to his sovereign, and to
his patriotism to the country of his birth and
fame!" It is a remarkable result in the case
of one who had nothing but his genius to aid
him. He had no patron in high life, no college
connection, no friendship in high places to help
him; indeed, he had the prejudice of poverty
and race against him. Nothing but the high-
est courage sustained him, and the Christian-
Jew became the embodiment of nearly all that
is noble and great in the English character.
Mr. Disraeli became a Christian in faith at a
very early age—it is said at twelve years—and
maintained it to the end of his mortal career.
As a young man he showed no particular apti-
tude for anything except literature; he disliked
business, but cultivated his mind by travel,
which the comparatively slender means of his
father enabled him to enjoy. He began life as
a politician, determined to win his way to fame
and greatness. He was most emphatically a
self-made man. By his perseverance and in-
domitable will he succeeded, step by step, in
winning the high positions he for years has
filled, and was twice Premier of England, the
one position nearest to the throne. His per-
sonal qualities had also a great deal to do with
his success. "Little children loved him, wo-
manly hearts worshipped him, and strong men
held his right hand lovingly and loyally when
he died."

[Column 2]
	During his illness several letters were writ-
ten to him by children, hoping "his Lordship
would soon be better." Such were the best
tributes that could be paid to any one. It is
not by what strangers say, or what they think,
that character can be tested, it is the home cir-
cle; and there this most remarkable man was
beloved in a most remarkable manner. Some
years ago a lady friend of both himself and
his Viscountess died and left him a handsome
estate on condition of her remains being laid
side by side with her beloved friends in their
family vault at Hughenden!!—this wash was
complied with—the name of this Lady was
Mrs. Brydges Willyams; here is a speciman of
the tenacity, and appreciation of friendship,
that is most expressive and unique! it is said
that he never made a personal enemy—party
ones he had bitter ones—but at his death it is
remarkable every opposing feeling seemed laid
aside, and the daily callers in Curzon Street were
all that had ever known him, and admired his
wondrous abilities; the most delicate atten-
tion was shewn him, even to leaving their car-
riages at the top of the street, and walking to
the house that no noise might desturb him.
Ladies, Marchionesses and Duchesses observed
this attention. At his own Manor of Hugh-
enden, the Vicar of which the Rev. Henry
Blagden M. A. spoke of him in high terms at
the Vestry meeting saying, "I rise to give ex-
pression to our regret at the great loss our parish
has sustained by the lamented death of the Earl
of Beaconsfield; during the twelve years that I
have been Vicar, no one could be more kindly
or liberally disposed toward the parish than he
was. I never applied to him for help without
his meeting me in the kindest, and most gener-
ous way; and I know how dearly he loved this
place and always had the well-being of Hugh-
enden at heart. In his last illness he pined for
his beloved Home, and although he knew that
the honor of a public funeral in Westminister
Abbey might be his, he always set his face
against it, because he desired that his body
should lie here in the place he loved so much.
I can safely say that those who knew him best,
loved him best; and I never heard one of his
Tenants, or one of those who served him, say
an unkind or bitter word against him. No
public man was ever able to call forth such an
amount of devotion as he did, not only among
his political supporters, but still more when we
come to the narrower circle of his own place;"
the Vicar then proposed resolutions to record
the irreparable loss the nation, and especially
the Manor of Haghenden had sustained by the
death of the Earl of Beaconsfield etcetera; in
speaking to the resolution Mr Thomas Coates
said, "as a Tenant of the late Earl for a quart-
er of a century he endorsed all the Vicar had
said"—of course I have merely given a synopsis
of what aught every word to have been quoted,
as coming from one who as the Clergyman of
the parish had been brought into much of the
inner life of the Disraeli family. Demonstra-
tions of respect were held throughout the
country the day of the funeral and services held
at most of the Churches and the most eulogistie
remarks made,the burden and refrain being that
"the country had lost a very great man and
the Queen one she regarded as her friend, and
counselor."
	I now give clippings from London, papers
which speak for themselves—

	"A well-known diplomatist was not long ago
conferring with Prince Bismarck in the latter's
private cabinet, when the conversation chanced
to turn on the Berlin Congress and the conspicu-
ous part which the chief Plenipotentiary of
Great Britain had taken at it. 'There' said
the Chancellor, pointing to the wall, there hangs
the portrait of my Sovereign, there on the right
that of my wife, and on the left that of Lord
Beaconsfield."
	"Everywhere there are signs of true sorrow

[Column 3]
and respect; friend and foe alike have striven
to emulate each other in mourning a national
loss, while the foreign Press teems with eulogy
on the great man just passed away. To merely
quote what has already appeared would require
more than one edition of this paper. It is re-
markable, however, that among so many autho-
rities there should be so little that is censorious.
If we acept a few ill-conditioned Radical papers,
there has been nothing but universal praise.
It would be foolish to suppose that the late
Earl had not many and bitter political oppo-
nents, but under the shadow of sorrow so recent,
nearly all unite in setting forth the better side
of the great man's career. Of the many flatter-
ing notices that have appeared in the foreign
newspapers, that in the Bersaglieri of Rome is
the most picturesque. The writer says—
	"The man whom Mr. Gladstone had re-
proached as not having a drop of English blood
in his veins has given to the English Gladstone
a terrible lesson in patriotism: he found Eng-
land reduced, as Lord Russell said, to a Power
of the third order, and he replaced her in her
ancient position.	-	-	-	-	His end
was ever the greatness and prosperity of Eng-
land. To the domesticity loving Queen this
ambitious man, this remoulder of Empires, was
extremely dear. The daughter of the Bruns-
wicks and Tudors leaned in glad security on
the arm of the Hebrew's son."

	"A man who did not know how to hestitate or
vacillate when he saw what he believed to be
duty; who did not undo to-day what he had
done yesterday; fearless and independent, true
to conviction and bold in action; one who
would rather look defeat in the face than be
false to his principles."

	The following is a clause in his will and he
desires that the words "in her own right," shall
be inscribed even on her Tomb—trifles truly
speak character!

	"I desire and direct that I may be buried in
the same vault in the churchyard of Hughen-
den in which the remains of my late dear wife,
Mary Anne Disraeli, created in her own right
Viscountess Beaconsfield, were placed, and
that my funeral may be conducted with the
same simplicity as hers was".

	The last extract has a ring in it that causes
my whole soul to vibrate and respond to the
chords it strikes! why is this? "There are more
things in Heaven and Earth, than are dreampt
of in our philosophy or if some whisperings of the
Spirit of truth, give us glimpses of light, and
understanding through the crannies of the Soul,
they are given alone for our edification and
generally we find the language we now possess
even with all its wondrous power of communi-
cation is still inadequate to express that, which
by some invisible power is conveyed to us, and
with it a Lexicon of the same mysterious con-
struction by which we can comprehend and
define its meaning; and we are fed and en-
lightened, and edified and we go on our way re-
joicing, we acknowledge it the voice of God, and
we heard it without fear, but with joy and glad-
ness! well may our minds go out into the Elysian
fields, leaving the things of "the earth earthy"
and in the vision of those minds we see the
hand of God, almost as did "the brother of
Jared"—"God moves in a mysterious way"
"He raises up instruments, He fills them with
intelligence that is of no earthly school; the
portion of His Spirit that he has conferred up-
on them, draws all men unto them," and wo-
men too, and even children," pluck their robe
to gain their smile; and so they pass thro' life,
with all eyes fixed upon them, all minds trying
to read them, all imaginations engrossed by
them, living meteors that cross our path in
their glory and their brightness, they rush on—
till like the masse of humanity they are swal-
lowed up in the Maelstrom of Death!—and there
the door is shut,and we are left dazzled by their


glorious transit, recalling the days of their life,
and the glory of them, recalling their words,
their looks,their power of attraction their power
to benefit, and elevate mankind, to benefit and
elevate nations, recalling that last speech those
last words that last look,that last pressure of the
hand.—Leave me alone for I will weep yet
longer.


