				[CONCLUDED.]
	One of the tenets of the Gospel received by
the Latter-day Saints in common with all other
principles of truth, is that of baptism for the
dead; this was regarded by the Missionary
Unipod as being wickedly absurd if not un-
scriptural, and as to plural marriage, although
the ancient patriarchs practised it, the entire
institution was the device of the devil to lead
men into licentionsness; according to that gen-
tleman's opinion. And he felt justified iu op-
posing the Latter-day Saints on account of
these doctrines, as did the London City mis-
sionaries generally. If this opposition had
been conducted upon Christian principles, that
is in the Spirit of love,it might have been justifi-
able, but the most rancorous hate was man-
ifested. It did not seem to enter into the mind
of the Missionary that the Gospel Jesus taught
was that of love, and that the fruits of the Spirit,
conferred upon his disciples, were love, joy,
peace, long-suffering, gentleness, and all the

[Column 2]
virtues. So thoroughly imbued was Mr.
Unipod with enmity to "Mormonism" that even
his "Mormon" son was hated. Now if Christian
people would reflect they would find no just-
ification in hating any one, on account of dif-
ference of religious opinion. So sensible of
this were the founders of the London City Mis-
sion itself, that one of its laws prohibited doc-
trinal discussions, lest they should lead to
division.
	So long as the missionaries were guided by
this wholesome rule, the affairs of the entire
mission prospered, and when active hostility
commenced against the missionary Elders of
the Latter-day Saints, internal discord began
and brotherly love ceased to characterize them
as brethren.
	That Missionary Unipod was honest in his
antagonism to his son, and to those associated
with him in religious faith there can be no
question. Even on his death-bed he called his
"Mormon" son close to him, and whispered:
"Joseph, I am going to leave you, and we shall
never meet again." But that "Mormon" son
knew more than his dying father did of the
nature of the Gospel of Christ. He knew the
meaning of the comprehensive words of Jesus.
"He that believeth in me, though he were dead
yet shall he live." He knew that the glorious
Gospel is not narrowed down to paltry sectarian
dimensions. He had received of the Spirit of
the Gospel, that Spirit which takes of the
things of the Father and the Son, and reveals
them to every true believer. Yes! and that Spirit
was there, by the side of the dying bed of the
devoted Missionary, to bless and cheer his
father. The "Mormon" son who himself was a
missionary at that time took the right hand of
his beloved father and whispered to him in
turn, with words of hope: "Father I know
where you are going to and I will come and
visit you." Yes! and the father believed these
words, carried home to the heart as they were
by the Spirit of Truth. It takes but a short
time to open the visions of the mind to the
spiritual things of this creation when God
quickens the understanding. In the twinkling
of an eye the dying father saw his son in his
true colors, he loved him then! Trying to ap-
ologize for harshness towards him, a thing that
was quite unnecessary, he asked forgiveness,
but everything had long since been forgiven!
It is not surprisitg then that the "Mormon" son
has been baptized in Zion for his beloved
father; gone into the water for him; that al-
though he had died without having honored
the law, it should be honored for him: Ex-
cept a man be born of water and of the Spirit
he cannot enter the kingdom of God." That
the son had a clear right to minister on earth
for the deceased father, the ordinances of the
Gospel have made provision for; and in the
human family there will always be a living
link somewhere by which the temporal and
spiritual can be united. The time may be long
in accomplishing all the redemptions that are
possible, but the eternities are long. Thus all
may have an opportunity of receiving the
Gospel, and the time shall come that "Every
knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess
that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the
Father."
	The London City Missionary was followed to
the grave by scores of his fellow missionaries.
Thirty-five years he had been doing the work
of the Master in the best manner he knew how
to do,and his works follow him. Many were the

[Column 3]
eulogies spoken and written about this good
man.
	The "Mormon" son followed the remains of
his father to their last resting place, conscious
that had the father lived he would no longer
have opposed the Gospel. And there were as-
surances that all would be well with the de-
parted missionary, given by the lips of the
priesthood. "Your father was a good man,
honestly opposed to the work of the Lord by
reason of his own traditions, he will inherit a
great Terrestrial glory!" The name of the be-
loved father is now recorded among the names
of those who have honored the law of Baptism;
and the "Mormon" son still lives to see Temples
built in honor of the Most High, in which
the glorious work of salvation for the living and
the dead shall be finally consummated.


