[Vol3 | August 1916 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Current Topics | Author: James H. Anderson ]

A German submarine has crossed the Atlantic Ocean to the
United States—this being the greatest feat on record thus far for
an undersea boat.
Murray City, seven miles south of Salt Lake City, has
again voted to exclude the saloon—this time by a larger majority
than heretofore. It is notable that the women voters were the
chief contributors to this result.
V. Carranza, whom the American policy placed at the
head of the Mexican republic, by reason of favors shown his
cause, turned and plunged the United States into practically a
state of war with Mexico—a not altogether unexpected culmination
of events.
The bomb which exploded in an Oregon Short Line mail
car at Butte, Montana, and which was asserted by some to have
been intended for the governor of Utah, is now shown to have
not been intended for Utah at all. but for a station in Idaho.
O. N. Hilton, the Denver lawyer who abused the Utah
courts and people because the murderer Hillstrom was convicted
and executed, has been disbarred from practicing law in Utah.
By his actions and language, long since, Hilton barred himself
from being listed as a gentleman.
Archeology in Utah is receiving special attention from the
State University, through an expedition headed by Prof. L. E.
Young. Southeastern Utah doubtless will contribute its share of
archeology testimony to the fact that the New World, after
all, is practically as old in its civilization as is the eastern
hemisphere.
The Old Folks of northern Utah had one of the most enjoyable
of Old Folks' Day observances in June this year, the
assemblage at the Temple Block in Salt Lake City comprising
nearly 5,000 people over 70 years of age.
Presidential. nominations for the two great political parties
in the United States have resulted in the choice of Charles
E. Hughes of New York by the Republicans and the re-nomination of Woodrow Wilson of New Jersey by the Democrats. The
political contest promises to be hard and close.
Courtesy in public officials is not altogether eliminated from
among the things the people demand and expect, as shown in
the fact that a deputy auditor in Salt Lake County was required
by the board of county commissioners to apologize to a young
woman to whom he had been needlessly discourteous.
Equal suffrage for women has made a notable gain in
receiving favorable mention in the great national political conventions
in the United States. The woman suffragists seem
better satisfied with the Republican than with the Democratic
pronouncement, but as to the cause itself in which they are interested
there is in each of them a great stride forward.
Earl H. H. Kitchener, England's great soldier, was
drowned in the sinking of the warship Hampshire, which struck
a mine off the British coast. Much of England's success in
army organization during the present war is due to Kitchener's
skill and energy; and he was about the only one of the great
military leaders who foresaw that the war would be a long one
—
on the first day of the outbreak he estimated that it would last
three years.
The Mexican situation has grown so much worse recently
through attacks of Mexican troops on parts of the American
punitive expedition which started into Mexico after the bandit
Villa, that the national guard of the various States, aggregating
about 150,000 men, has been called into active service by President
Wilson. The first contingent of the national guard to reach
the front under this call was Battery A, Utah, its destination
being Nogales, Arizona. Utah will send upwards of a thousand
of its troops, at the first call, for Mexican service.
The anti-prohibitionists in Utah are directly and vigorously
supporting Gov. Wm. Spry for a third term as governor
of Utah. One of his opponents for the Republican nomination is
Edward E. Jenkins of Salt Lake City, who is a determined advocate
of the immediate- prohibition of the whisky traffic in
Utah, and who also believes that the burden of taxation on the
people of the State is unnecessarily heavy. The threat of the
saloon element is that if the Republicans do not accept their candidate
they will put up a third ticket in the State.