unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other, "This is my beloved Son, hear him!' "My object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the personage who stood above me in the light which of all the sects was right—and which | should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt; that they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof. "He again forbade me to join with any of them; and many other things did he say unto me, which I cannot write at this time. When I came to myself again, I found myself lying on my back, looking up into heaven." (Pearl of Great Price, p. 84. Paragraphs 15-20.) The place:, A grove—one of "God's first temples," the pillars which were towering trees and the decorations sweet scented shrubbery —a hallowed spot, an out-of-door sanctuary where man met his Maker and his Redeemer or from which he saw them both and heard the voice of each, selected by a boy for a secret prayer and chosen by Divinities as a central point of interest and action that should shape the destiny of the human race from that time onward. And contribute to the happiness of the hosts of heaven forever. +9 The Persons: Joseph: The seer of promise, ordained in the spirit world; prophetically named more than thirty three centuries before his mortal birth; the child of divinely chosen parentage; the boy who had felt the pinch of poverty, the distress oif bodily pain, and the bitter anguish of bereavement; the youthful lover of learning, seeking knowledge by "study and by faith'; an ideal all unconscious of his ideality. His purpose at the place was to find the truth. He was there with a heart-hold on the 'iron rod" the word of God written by the Apostle James. He says, "So in accordance with this, my determination, I retired to the woods." Determination is the link between desire and action; it is the heart-hold. The Evil One: He who coveted the throne of God; the one who in heaven fought against free agency and was cast out as an "accuser of the brethren'; the ill adviser in the garden of Eden; the instigator of the first atheism, the prompter of the 
 first crime; the inspirer of the murderous Herod who sought to stay a dispensation by slaying the Christ child; the audacious " tempter to the Prince of Peace, the betrayer of the Lord. This "evil one" was there at the grove. His purpose was to cut off communication between man and God and thus, perchance, delay the event which would illuminate his iniquity—"'Reveal the Man of Sin." His stay upon the scene was short. He fled, as he always will, before "the light." The Father: The first of the Trinity; the president of the Godhead; the parent of our spirits;. The being who on earth begat the "Babe of Bethlehem," the one whose will Jesus came to do, the one of whose business the boy Christ spoke; the one whose voice was heard when John baptized the ''Lamb of God;" the one with whom the Savior pleaded in the Garden of Gethsemane; the one to whom the matchless martyr on the cross committed his spirit; that Father to whom the resurrected Redeemer ascended before permitting himself to be touched by any mortal; the Father to whom we pray. He was on the scene to prove once again the individual personality of himself and to introduce his son. The Son: The First Born of the spirit family of the Father; he the author of the plan for man's eternal life and exaltation; he the evident ideal of Isaac who was willingly bound upon the altar; he the "Son of Man" through his mother, and the Son of God through his Father; he who among men taught the ways of God and walked perfectly in his paths; he who while his body lay lifeless in the tomb unlocked the prison doors of the spirit world and took the gospel of deliverance to the captives there. He, the conqueror of death, "the first fruits of the resurrection;" he whose atonement was and is and ever will be proving the love of God for man and winning man's love for God. He in whose name we pray. He was a participant in this event to be seen with his Father, to be introduced by him and to become the chief source of all knowledge for the youth who there became a seer. The proceedings: When the movies of heaven face our planet and the broadcasting waves from above are set in harmony with a receiver on earth, the heavens open, distance is of no consideration for sight or sound; things are as real afar off as near by; voices are as distinct from another sphere as from a close-by rostrum. The Father's Introduction: Was there ever such a one before? A brief compound sentence, carrying a salutation, a revelation, and a commandment. Joseph's Questions: It is of record in substance only. It was a double question containing first the inquiry as to which of the'sects was right; and, second, which one should he join? In the light of the humility of the questioner and the majesty ~-" of the one of whom it was asked, the absence of a reverential saluation seems improbable at least. The Son's Answer: The last part of the question was answered 'first. It was the big part of the inquiry, and it contanied the instruction to join none of the existing sects, and then the reasons were given. First, that they were all wrong. Whatever good there may have been in any one of them was not sufficient to make the sect acceptable to Christ. Second, the creeds were an abomination in his sight; and why not, when they provided for non-progression and the worship of a nonentity? He denounced an insincere ministry as corrupt, and then quoted the words of Paul in explanation of who the "professors" were. His denunciation of pretenders was no more aimed at the honesthearted than was his denunciation of the hypocritical Pharisees aimed at the good Samaritan. The form of godliness spoken of in the answer refers to a pretense of power and falsely founded claim to divine authority. "They deny the power thereof.' This is a declaration of the fact that by declaring the "cannon of scripture to be full," and "miracles to be things of the past,'' God was denied the power to communicate with or work for man. The answer in part was repeated. The greatest dispensator further instructed the latest dispensator, and the opening event of the dispensation of times became a part of history in heaven and on earth. It was no product of mind workings alone, no fabric of the imagination. It was reality in the production of which the glory of God and the mentality of man participated. It was the birth of a new kingdom, one divinely destined to occupy the whole earth and endure forever. It was an occasion for the universe to sing the then unwritten song: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! 'Zign's standard is unfurled; The dawning of a brighter day, Majestic rises on the world." Note. The first verse of the first hymn in our hymn book is said to be a matchless bit of Latter-day Saint descriptive literature. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Locate and describe the Sacred Grove. 2. Why may the sacred grove fittingly be called the birth place of modern seership? 3. What special interest had the "Evil One" in the opening event of this dispensation?; 4. What reason have we for flieving that one of the 
 specific purposes of the Father's presence in the opening event was once again to prove his individual personality? 5.' Show that the Father's introduction of Joseph to the Son contained a salutation, a revelation, and a command. 6. In his answer to Joseph's question, how did the Son show his appreciation of the scriptures? 7. Why were the creeds an abomination to the Son of God? 8. Describe why the ministers were included in the term "Professors" in the answer to Joseph's question. 9. Why, in your opinion, did the Lord answer the second question of Joseph first? 10. How was the power of God denied by the creeds and clergy of the time? 11. Correlate Daniel 2:44 with the lesson statement that the event was the birth of a kingdom, etc.