GUIDE LESSONS FOR: FEBRUARY 623 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) CARL SANDBURG When Counselor Jennie B. Knight visits tie East she sometimes stops at a city called Galesburg, in Illinois, to visit her cousin. It was in this city, January 6, 1878, that Carl Sandburg was born. There was nothing regular about his attendance at school as a boy. At thirteen years of age he was at work on a milk wagon. Louis Untermeyer has told his story for the next six years in the following language: "During the next six years he was in rapid succession porter in a barber shop, scene shifter in a cheap theatre, truck handler in a brick yard, turner apprentice in a pottery, dish washer in Denver and Omaha _ hotels, harvest hand in Kansas wheatfields." Such a breadth of experience was fitting him for the very type of poetry to which he afterwards turned. During the Spanish American War, in 1898, Sandburg was a member of Company C, Sixth Illinois Volunteers. After his return from Porto Rico he entered the college of his native town and for the first time began to give attention to writing. While in college he was Editor-in-chief of the college paper. To this activity he added any work that came to hand in order to remain in school. He was advertising manager for a department store and on the staff of a business magazine. He became a safety first expert, his articles on accident prevention attracting enough attention to bring forth an invitation for him to speak before the manufacturers convention where he talked about machinery safeguards and methods that might be employed to guard against accident in industry. His first publication was a volume of twenty-two poems appearing in 1904. Chicago Poems were published in 1916; Cornhuskers, in 1918; Smoke and Steel, in 1920; Slaves of the Sunburnt West, in 1923. Sandberg has been on the staff of the Chicago Daily News since 1919, He lives at Elmhurst, Illinois, close to Chicago, yet far enough away to enjoy nature in her verdant garb, and the tinkling of waterfalls. It was our pleasure to hear Carl Sandburg read a number of his poems in the summer of 1922. He has an athletic appearance, consequently it is not surprising to learn that he was a member of the baseball team in his college days at Galesburg. When reading he emphasized the rhythm of many of his lines by accompanying" them with the trum-trum of a string instrument. At times it was the banjo and at other times the guitar. Many people have admired Carl Sandburg's vigor. If you chance to have a copy of Untermeyer's Modern American Poetry a 
 you might read to the class his poem "Chicago." In this poem he refers to Chicago as the "Hog Butcher" for the world. Later on he says, "they tell me you are wicked and I believe them, and they tell me you are crooked and J answer, yes, itis true. I have seen the gunmen kill and go free to kill again." This poem has increasing significance from the fact that in October one of the magazines published an article entitled "Hands Up, Chicago!" in which the statement is made that during the past six years practically 1,800 murders have been committed in Cook county, the county in which Chicago is situated, and that 42 polilcemen have lost their lives. This is mainly the work of the gunmen that Sandburg is talking about. Some people do not call this type of verse poetry; they say that such observations are purely intellectual and wholly lacking the emotional quality. Other people feel that when a writer has the power to condense so much in so few words that he does present to us a picture that. Makes strong appeal, and that such appeal is a poem. Another poem similar to "Chicago" is a poem called "Joliet" that suggests the city in Illinois where the state penitentiary is located. This is realistic like the first: JOLIET On the one hand the steel works. On the other hand the penitentiary. Sante Fe trains and Alton trains Between smokestacks on the west, And gray walls on the east, And Lockport down the river. Part of the valley is God's, And part is man's. The river course laid out A thousand years ago, The canals ten years back. The sun on two canals and one river Makes three Stripes of silver Or copper and gold Or shattered sunflower leaves. Talons of an iceberg Scraped out this valley. Claws of an avalanche loosed here. We have already noted a number of our modern American poets who have written of Abraham Lincoln. The poem "Knucks" is full of a delicate irony relating to the morality of that city: KNUCKS _In Abraham Lincoln's city, Where they remember his lawyer's shingle, The place where they brough him Wrapped in battle flags, Wrapped in the smoke of memories From Tallahassee to the Yukon, The place where they brought him Points white against the blue prairie dome, In Abraham Lincoln's city * * * I saw knucks In the window of Mister Fischman's second-hand store On Second Street. I went in and asked, "How much?". "Thirty cents apiece,' answered Mister Fischman. And taking a box of new ones off a shelf He filled anew the box in the showcase And said, incidentally, most casually And incidentally: "T sell a carload a month of these." I slipped my fingers into a set of knucks, Cast-iron knucks molded in a foundry pattern, And there came to me a set of thoughts like these: Mister Fischman is for Abe and the "malice to none" stuff, And the street car strikers and the strike-breakers, And the sluggers, gunmen, detectives, policemen, Judges, utility heads, newspapers, priests, lawyers, They are all for Abe and the "malice to none" stuff. I started for the door. "Maybe you want a lighter pair," Came Mister Fischman's voice. I opened the door * * * and the voice again: "You are a funny customer." Wrapped in battle flags, Wrapped in the smoke of memories, This is the place they brought him, This is Abraham Lincoln's home town. One of the tender poems dedicated to men who have mace the supreme sacrifice in war is Sandburg's "Grass": GRASS Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and' Waterloo. Shovel them under and let me work— I am the grass; I cover all. And pile them high at Gettysburg, And pile them high at Ypres and Verdun. Shovel them under and let me work. Two years, ten years, and passengers ask the conductor; What place is this? Where are we now? I am the grass. Let me work. 
 If there seems to be something of crass realism in such poems as "Chicago" and "Joliet" there is certainly a delicacy of feeling in "Grass" that must appeal to persons of the most refined sensibilities. "Drumnotes" takes us back to Europe during the great World War. It pictures first Jaures, who was killed in a restaurant in the Montmartre district, just before the war, a man who was regarded, perhaps, as the chief orator among the French. Ten years after his death he was brought from his native province. His casket lay in state for twenty-four hours in the Chamber of Deputies, and the next day, accompanied by a very unusual procession, was taken to the Pantheon there to lie with Victor Hugo in that place where only the greatest of Frenchmen are buried. Then he speaks of Kitchener of Khartoum who most likely was lost on the high seas during those troublesome and tragic days on water. Then he returns to Franz Josef, the veteran ruler of the Austrian Empire, who lies, he says, "in a tomb with the Hapsburg fathers, moths eating the green uniform to tatters, the worms taking all and leaving only the bones, gold buttons and iron crosses."' Yet Carl Sandburg writes other poems that are not so heavy and sombre as "Drumnotes." A "Crimson Rambler" is a good example of this type: CRIMSON RAMBLER Now that a crimson rambler begins to crawl over the house of our two lives— Now that a red curve winds across the shingles— Now that hands washed in early sunrises climb and spill scarlet on a white lattice weave— Now that loop of blood is written on our roof and reaching around a chimney— How are the two lives of this house to keep strong hands and strong hearts? Carl Sandburg seems to be very fond of roses of all varieties. In his poem "Three Violins" he appeals not only to the sense of sight, but to the sense of sound, by suggesting the beautiful melody of MacDowell's "To a Wid Rose": THREE VIOLINS Three violins are trying their hearts. The piece is MacDowell's Wild Rose. And the time of the wild rose And the leaves of the wild rose And the dew-shot eyes of the wild rose Sing in the air over three violins. Somebody like you was in the heart of MacDowell. Somebody like you is in three violins. And so Carl Sandburg continues: At one time it is the picture of the rush and roar and crime of a modern city that he gives us, at another time he tells us how gently the grass seeks to obliterate the places where many men have been buried because of the ravages of war. In yet another poem he says, how dare you people in the city of Springfield, Illinois, where the great champion of "malice toward none" lies buried, boast of selling knucks, or of strikes and slaves and gunmen. ~ Questions and Problems 1. Why does Carl Sandburg call Chicago the "Hog Butcher" for the world? 2.. Why does he say in his description of Joliet that part of the valley of God's and part of the valley is man's? 3. Compare this poem on Abraham Lincoln with poems found in editorial columns of February, 1927, and tell im what respect it is very different from the other poems. ~ +4, What is the significance of the lines "wrapped in the. Smoke of memories from Tallahassee to the Yukon?" 5. Franz Josef's life was a life of very many tragedies and disappointments. Have someone, tell in brief the outstanding events of his life. This material may be found in an up-to-date encyclopedia or in the world's history. 6. Have somebody play the music of MacDowell's "To a Wild Rose" and then read the poem. 7. Discuss this proposition: There is need in our modern life for a poet who can give us a realistic presentation of the life of our own time.