[Vol6 | June 1919 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Reconstruction]
ground  upon  by  the  friction  of  sordid  ambition  and  the  lust  for 
the  vain  things  of  this  world.  This  is  the  message  of  reconstruc- 
tion for  this  people :  learn  to  construct  and  adjust  all  your  own 
life-forces  so  that  you  shall  be  ready,  not  to  drive  and  force  men 
into  the  true  Church  and  kingdom  of  God.  but  to  lead  them  by 
loving  them,  to  win  them  by  serving  them.  The  gospel  is  the  plan 
under  heaven  by  which  men  can  be  saved.

Germs  and  Disease. 
Dr.  Martin  P.  Henderson,  Professor  of  Biology, 
B.  Y.  University,  Provo. 
(This  takes  place  of  Guide  Work  for  July.) 
The  existence  of  a  world  of  microscopic  life  with  its  won- 
derful manifestations,  was  but  vaguely  suggested  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Nineteenth  century.  Fermentations  and  decay  were 
not  understood.  Disease  was  a  mystery.  Epidemics  came  and 
went  without  any  apparent  cause.  Decaying  organic  matter  had 
been  observed  to  swarm  with  bacteria,  but  these  were  supposed 
to  arise  spontaneously  as  a  product  of  the  dead  cells,  and  to  take 
no  part  in  causing  the  decay.  Similar  structures  had  been  seen 
in  the  tartar  from  the  teeth,  but  it  was  not  supposed  that  these 
tmy  organisms  normally  grow  and  reproduce  in  the  human  mouth. 
About  the  middle  of  the  century,  however,  the  question  of  the 
origin  of  these  lowly  forms  engaged  the  attention  and  genius  of 
the  leaders  in  the  fields  of  chemistry  and  medicine,  and  out  of 
their  controversies  and  experiments  came  a  recognition  of  three 
fundamental  facts:  first,  that  these  simple  organisms  do  not 
arise  de  novo,  from  the  air  or  from  any  other  substance  either 
organic  or  inorganic,  but  like  all  other  living  things  must  have 
their  origin  in  antecedent  parental  forms ;  second,  that  fermenta- 
tion, putrefaction  and  decay  are  results  of  the  life  activities  of 
these  forms ;  and  third,  that  they  are  causative  agents  in  diseases 
of  plants  and  animals. 
Despite  this  information,  which  has  been  current  for  almost 
sixty  years,  and  in  the  face  of  the  certainty  that  a  majority  of 
our  common  contagious  diseases  are  caused  by  germs,  and  that 
others  on  very  good  evidence  are  believed  to  be  thus  caused,  the 
idea  .seems  to  prevail  in  the  popular  mind  that  an  epidemic  of 
disease,  such  as  that  of  the  past  season,  may  arise  spontaneously 
out  of  the  air  or  have  its  origin  in  some  other  intangible  manner. 
The  disease  germ  is  thought  of  as  a  mysterious  something  which 
as  mysteriously  transports  itself  from  one  person  to  another 
without  the  intervention  of  any  material  mediator. 
A  germ  is  either  a  minute  plant  or  animal.  It  differs  from 
the  higher  forms  of  life  primarily  in  its  size  and  .simpler  organ- 
ization. Usually  it  is  a  single  cell,  so  small  that  hundreds  or 
even  thousands  of  them  would  have  to  be  grouped  together  to 
form  a  mass  of  sufficient  size  to  be  visible.  Germs  are  subject 
to  the  same  laws  of  the  universe  and  dependent  upon  the  .same 
principles  of  life  as  are  higher  organisms.     Their  need  for  food

364  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
is  no  less  imperativ,e  and  their  necessity  for  right  conditions  of 
temperature  and  moisture  is  just  as  real.  They  take  food,  grow 
and  reproduce  their  kind.  What  constitutes  them  disease  germs 
is  the  power  which  they  have  acquired  to  operate  upon  and  within 
the  human  body  and  to  draw  from  it  the  nutrients  requisite  for 
a  complete  cycle  of  life.  They  may  be  simple  saprophytes  such 
as  the  colon  bacillus,  which  is  always  present  but  does  not  cause 
.specific  disease,  active  parasites  which  are  able  to  wrest  their 
nourishment  from  the  living  cells,  or  less  virulent  forms  such 
as  the  pneumonia  germs  which  attack  the  host  only  when  he  is 
weakened  from  some  other  cause.  Germs  may  attack  and  destroy 
living  tissues,  as  in  the  case  of  diphtheria  bacteria  in  the  lining 
of  the  throat,  or  the  typhoid  bacillus  in  the  walls  of  the  intestinal 
tract;  they  may  remain  localized  as  to  place  of  development  but 
in  their  operations  produce  poisons  which  are  distributed  by  the 
blood  to- all  parts  of  the  body,  as  in  diphtheria  and  lockjaw;  or 
they  may  get  into  the  blood  stream  and  be  carried  to  various  parts 
of  the  body,  as  in  .syphilis  and  typhoid  fever. 
Contagious  germs  develop  normally  only  in  connection  with 
the  body  or  its  immediate  wastes.  When  a  person  "catches"  an 
infectious  disease  it  means  simply  that  the  germ  causing  it  has 
been  transferred  from  an  infected  individual  to  a  vulnerable 
portion  of  his  own  body,  and  finding  there  requisite  environ- 
metal  conditions,  has  established  itself  and  is  continuing  its 
natural  processes  of  growth  and  reproduction.  The  germ  is  not 
at  fault  any  more  than  the  weed  is  at  fault  in  growing  in  the 
choicest  spot  of  the  garden.  It  is  merely  satisfying  the  greatest 
demand  of  its  existence — the  perpetuation  of  its  kind. 
The  transfer  of  germs  from  one  individual  to  another  takes 
place  in  a  variety  of  ways  all  of  which  might  be  avoided,  and 
which  would  no  doubt  be  avoided,  were  the  true  .significance  of 
germs  realized.  But  their  small  size  makes  them  very  difficult 
to  .study  and  entirely  inaccessible,  so  far  as  the  unaided  senses 
of  man  are  concerned.  If  it  were  possible  to  see  them  as  they 
are  in  their  normal  places  of  growth,  many  of  the  practices  of 
the  present  would  be  substituted  by  more  sanitary  ones,  and 
many  thoughtless  acts  would  be  discontinued.  Suppose  for  ex- 
ample it  were  possible  to  see  and  recognize  the  myriads  of  living 
forms  that  swarm  on  the  lips  and  in  the  mouth  of  a  person  in- 
fected with  influenza,  diphtheria,  "colds"  or  tuberculosis,  or  sup- 
pose the  individual  could  thus  see  himself.  What  wcuLi  bt  the 
possibilities  of  quarantine?  What  would  become  of  tlu^  habit  o^ 
promiscuous  kissing?  Suppose  such  an  infected  individual  could 
.see  these  same  forms  swimming  in  the  droplets  of  saliva  as  they 
issue  in  clouds  from  his  mouth  and  bespatter  his  friends  whenever 
he  sneezes  or  coughs.  Would  he  be  guilty  of  p-^t forming  these 
acts   except   behind   his   handkerchief   or   some   other   adequate
