MISCELLANEOUS.

	The Tichborne Claimant has already cost
the Government of England the small sum
of $2,500,000.
	Three gentlemen are in the field for Gov-
ernor of Vermont—Bradley Barlow, a
banker, N. T. Sprague, Jr., farmer and manu-
facturer, and T. W. Park, a railroad man.
	James E. Harvey, formerly minister to
Portugal, and more recently editor of the
Washington Patriot, is to be the editor of
the New Age at Philadelphia.
	Rev. Robert Collyer has followed Mr.
Beecher into fiction. "John Watkinson's
Wife" is the subject, and she is at present
installed in the pages of the Lakeside
Monthly.
	King John of Saxony having translated
the best work of the English poets, has
lately been engaged on the poems of Amer-
ican writers. He is a great admirer of the
English language, and requires it to be
taught in the lyceums.
	Love and sorrow in our souls resemble the
fire in some deep mines; it may for a long
time be apparently smothered, we fancy that
it is entirely extinguished, but some sud-
den draught, some ashes dropped, and the
flames, wild and consuming, will break forth
with redoubled fury.—Bremer.
	One of the funniest things in nature is a
council of fashionable youths over a new
coat just brought home. The inspection of
the cloth, bindings and distance of buttons,
anxious examination it the shoulders are
wide enough, the patting in the back, and
walking off in suspense to decide the final
question whether the "tails split," are
enough to set a woman off in unextinguish-
able laughter.
	Of Law there can be no less acknowledged
than that her seat is in the bosom of God,
her voice the harmony of the world, all
things in heaven and earth do her homage,
the very least as feeling her care, and the
greatest as not exempted from her power,
both angels and men and creatures of what
condition soever, though each in different
sort and manner, yet all with uniform con-
sent, admiring her as the mother of their
peace and joy.—Hooker.
	There are many men of superior talents
and refined taste, who, with lively imagina-
tions, and powers of action, not inferior to
those of other people, read a great deal, and
digest what they read, but go no further:
and can never be prevailed upon to turn
their information to account. It is of little
benefit to the world, that a man thinks
deeply and justly, if the results of his re-
searches are applied to no useful end. Con-
templation and action may be compared to
Rachel and Leah; the first was fairest, but
the latter most fruitful.
	No woman now goes to the wash-tubs, or
a fox hunt, to pruning grape vines, garden-
ing, or vegetable growing, with corsets on.
So we hope the day will come when horri-
ble head-dresses, dowdy frills and furbelows,
monstrous bunnets and trailing skirts will
disappear, like other vulgar things, from the
promenade, the street, the church, and such
other public places as are manifestly inap-
propriate for them. There is a time and
place for everything, and ladies only need
to recognize this fact in connection with
their costumes to always dress sensibly and
healthfully.—Home Journal.


