R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Sinah Bishop, Secretary of the Re-
lief Society of Paradise, Cache Co., writes
that on the 5th of Jan., Sister Maughan,
President of the Relief Societies in Cache
County, met with the sisters of Paradise and
reorganized the Relief Society there. Some
of the former officers having moved from
the settlement, they were released and
others duly appointed to fill the vacant
places. Sister Martha Wright was appoint-
ed President, Sister Lydia R. Remington
first, and Ann James second Counselors, and
Sister Elizabeth S. Jackson Treasurer, with
a sufficient number of Teachers. Sister
Maughan gave some excellent instruction,
which the sisters appreciated and seemed
desirous of profiting by. Mrs. Bishop con-
cludes her report with, "Hoping we may
individually and as a Society add our influ-
ence and unite in the building up of the
Kingdom of God, we are your sisters in the
Gospel Covenant." 

	Mrs. Betsy Gold writes from Washington,
Washington Co., that the young ladies of
that place, with a few others of more ma-
ture years, met at the residence of ex Bishop
R. D. Covington, Feb. 9th, 1874, and organ-
ized a Young Ladies' Retrenchment Soci-
ety, with the following officers:
	MISS LUCY COOPER, President,
	 "	CHRISTY JOHNSON,		}
	 "	EMILY HARMON,			} Counselors
	 "	IDA PARKER, Secretary,
	 "	HANNAH LARSON, Treasurer.


A distinguished German surgeon named
Esmarch has invented a process whereby
amputation of the limbs may be performed
bloodless by applying bandages to the limbs
above the point of operating. The method
has been successfully tried in New York
city.


[Column 1]
	"BEAR YE ONE ANOTHER'S
			BURDENS."
	Galatians, 6th chapter, 2nd verse.
	To me this text seems peculiarly applica-
ble to women. A woman's nature is natur-
ally one of sympathy, and none are so ready
to lend assistance, to succor the weak, aid
the poor, pour balm into the wounded heart,
and to comfort by every means in her power
those whose fortunes are hard, as gentle,
self-sacrificing woman. O woman! surely
your mission is one of tenderness and love.
How particularly necessary then, that we
should love one another; that we may the
more readily aid, comfort, strengthen, en-
courage and truly sympathize with each
other. If our labors are arduous and com-
plicated, they may be materially lightened
by mutual participation and co-operation.
We can all understand this in relation to
practical everyday life, and as that is a com-
plete prototype of our spiritual life, the
same rule will apply in spiritual matters as
well as in those of a temporal nature.
Every human soul, at any rate every wo-
man's soul, needs support and comfort from
outside sources. We are none of us entirely
independent of each other, no matter how
self-reliant, or how strong-minded, however
extraordinary our gifts, intellect, attain-
ments or possessions. Sometimes I think
the stronger the mind, the more sympathy
it needs. If it is continually pouring forth
to others, the fountain must needs be replen-
ished. To be sure we have always our
Heavenly Father to go to, and his fountains
are inexhaustible; but then we are mortals,
dwelling in mortal bodies, and as such, have
need of sympathy from mortal beings.
	We are engaged in a stupendous work,
view it in whatever light we may, and the
work is increasing on every side. It is im-
possible to define its limits, or determine its
magnitude. Think you then, there is no
need of assistance from one another? We
have each of us the same object in view, a
similar interest at stake, if we could only
realize it; we are working not only for our
own mutual improvement and advancement,
but for the good of future generations. The
seed we sow will assuredly spring up, blos-
som and bear fruit in the future; .and having
the same prize to obtain, the same goal to
reach, aiming at the same great result, the
regeneration of woman; let us be philan-
thropists in the truest sense of the word;
and a constant support to each other in
word, in action, and in very deed. If we
have strong minds or bodies, so much the
better for us, and so much the more devolves
upon us to do, for "where much is given
much will be required." If we possess
gifts, talents, or abilities, are we justified in
allowing them to perish for the want of use,
any more than the miser in hoarding up his
gold while the poor around him are starv-
ing? I think not; but in humility, laying
all upon the altar of our faith, trusting in
God for guidance and support, let us exert
every faculty we possess, in the great work
of advancement and redemption. Let us
stretch forth a hand to the weak and erring,
lift up the fallen, raise the bowed down,
help the tempted to resist temptation, and
stimulate those who are dilatory to prompt
and decided action.
	We have been told that "Pure religion
and undefiled before God and the Father, is
to visit the widow and the fatherless in their
afflictions,"&c. Do we not visit the widow
and the orphan, the poor, the sick, the igno-
rant, the weak and by every means in our
power contribute to their comfort, well-be-
ing and happiness? And we do not say
[Column 2]
"Be thou clothed and warmed and fed," but
we act in the matter, and our actions and
words correspond; then are we not bearing
the burdens of the weak, and striving to
fulfill the law of Christ, that "Inasmuch as
ye do it unto the least of these, ye do it unto
me?" Sisters, take courage; our love for
each other is increasing, we are becoming
acquainted with the character and develop-
ments of woman, our associations with each
other, (in our organizations) are gradually,
yet steadity uniting our influence. We may
be frowned upon, have to encounter preju-
dice and scorn, be criticized on all sides by
those who do not understand our motives;
but we must bear it bravely—without
shrinking or looking backward, trusting in
God and in each other; and always having
in view the great Cause in which we are
engaged; our march must be onward, our
motto progression.
	God has not given to all the same gifts,
therefore He must have intended us to help
each other; women as well as men. Why
should not women uphold each other by be-
ing associated together? I know it is the
opinion of most men that women are in-
capable of being true to each other, espec-
ially where there is the least chance for
rivalry either in affection, opinion or char-
acter; but notwithstanding man's voice to
the contrary, I believe it is possible for
women to arrive at a higher standard ofcharacter and excellence than has ever yet
been attained. And if man, being the ver-
itable living head, will lend us his sanction
and approbation, will look upon our efforts
with a smile of approval, even though he
withholds the helping hand, which it is our
right and privilege to expect, we will yet
succeed in the accomplishment of a purpose,
purifying and renovating in its influence,
powerful and effectual in its results for good
upon the human family. And many yet
unborn will have reason to bless those who
braved persecution, insult and calumny, to
establish organizations for the benefit of
woman; and as woman was the first to yield
to temptation and to induce man to follow
her, so ought she to be diligent and untir-
ing in her efforts to reinstate herself in the
presence of her Creator—and assist in per-
fecting and leading man back again also.
For whatever exalts, elevates, purifies and
refines woman, cannot fail to have a direct
influence upon man, for is it not given unto
her to "Bear the souls of men?"
			BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 18th, 1874.


