VOL. 2.	    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1874    	NO. 19.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE FATHER of the noted and worthy
Florence Nightingale, died recently, at his
residence, Embly Manor, near Romsey, Eng-
land. He was in the eightieth year of his
age.
	A SOUTHERN history of the late civil war
is to be compiled and published. Every
story has its two sides, and both may be
profitable considered.
	DISBAELI FORMALLY accepted the Pre-
miership of England on the 18th ult., and
Gladstone, who has for some years held the
office, is reported to be "glad" that this
"stone" has been so cast.
	WHEN PEOPLE feel like finding fault with
work which has been accomplished by
others, they should reflect before giving an
opinion, whether they could have done bet-
ter themselves. 
	THE SUMMIT of the Jungfrau mountain in
Switzerland, has been attained by an Ameri-
can lady which is considered a perilous feat
to perform. Miss Brewood is the name of
the lady who has thus distinguished herself.
	THE EDITORIAL contributor of the "Wo-
man's Journal" writes that "In London,
what was formerly called 'husband,' is now
a young lady's 'connubial attache,'" We
are not informed of what the latest style is
of designating a young man's better half.
	THE SEMI-centennial anniversary of the
foundation of the Franklin Institute was re-
cently celebrated at the Musical Fund Hall
in Philadelphia. Mr. Fredrick Fraley, one
of the founders of the Institute was present
and gave interesting recollection of its
establishment.
	MARSHAL BAZAINE, the old French war-
rior, who has been sentenced to spend the
remainder of his days as a prisoner, having
been charged with disloyalty, will be grant-
ed the society of his family. His wife made
the request, and the French Government
had the consideration to receive it favorably.
	PERHAPS SOME of the most unconscionable
men upon the American Continent are resi-
dents of Jersey City, N. J. It has been tele-
graphed that twenty-five women, who be-
gan the crusade against liquor in that city
went to a billiard saloon, knelt and prayed,
and exhorted for half and hour without pro-
ducing the desired effect. The men treated
them with jeers.
	AMENDMENTS TO the Indian intercourse
bill of 1855, designed to abolish the liquor
traffic among Indians, providing heavy pen-
alties for any infraction of the law against
such traffic, have been proposed. General
Harney recommends the suppression of
whiskey sellers by shooting or hanging
them. A law by which white men could be
enforced to set Indians better examples than
drinking whiskey, might have a beneficial
effect.
	MR. WENDELL Phillips asked, at the
Women's Centennial tea-party, in Boston,
"What would Sam Adams say to-day?"
And a New York editor farther queries,
"Would he have celebrated his famous tea-
party with the ladies who declared that taxa-
[Column 2]
tion without representation is tyranny, or
with the gentlemen who said so a hundred
years ago?" These questions are very sug-
gestive—Who will answer them?
	THE "AMERICAN Journal of Education"
is published monthly by E. N. Andrews, at
Chicago, price $1,50 a year. It is of conve-
nient size and of excellent typographical
appearance, and being devoted to the cause
of education, aims to be a popular as well
as professional periodical; useful to the
teacher, the school officer and all friends of
education.
	THE CALIFORNIA State Legislature has
passed a bill, making women eligible to
School offices. The same step has been pre-
viously taken by several other states; and
this is considerable in favor of woman's
abilities. If she is competent to instruct
the youth of our land, should she not cer-
tainly be possessed of sufficient intelligence
to entitle her to a voice in the arrangements
or laws by which the schools of our country
are to be governed?
	A LATE telegram from Erie, Penn., gives
the following item of news: "The wife of
Ezra Cooper, one of the wealthiest men in
this country, was arrested to-day on suspic-
ion of having murdered a servant girl, of
whom it is said she was jealous, imagining
there was too great an intimacy between the
deceased and her husband." Another sad
instance of the dire effects of letting pas-
sion, and not principle, take possession of,
and rule the human heart.
	CASES OF poverty and distress, in New
York city are lately being brought to light
in astonishing magnitude. Women from the
wealthiest and most refined families of the
city, have been so touched by the sights of
destitution and suffering which have pre-
sented themselves, that they have not only
offered the contents of their purses, and
clothing from their wardrobes, but some
have even volunteered their services as
seamstresses for the poor. We repeat the
words of one old lady, a recipient of mercy,
"God bless the rich who are charitable to
the poor." And He will. 
	THE LEGISLATURE has appropriated $10.-
000 to the Deseret Agricultural and Manu-
facturing Society. Miss Joan M. Campbell
has been elected secretary of the Society,
in the place of her father, Mr. R. L. Camp-
bell, resigned. Miss Mary L. Campbell is
assistant secretary, and Mr. G. B. Wallace
corresponding secretary. Ladies through-
out the Territory should keep in view, the
fact that they are desired and expected to do
their part in making the Territorial Fair for
each season a success; and their works for
this purpose should always be contemplated
and begun in good time. 	A CHEERFUL and energetic woman of this
city—whose name we have not permision to
publish—has been chief assistant to her hus-
band in building two houses. She said to
us, "He prepared the concrete while I laid
the lower part of the house and one of the
gable ends; then we exchanged work, and I
mixed the concrete while he finished the
upper part." During the same conversation,
this lady remarked that she was so eager to
learn the news of the day, it seemed as
[Column 3]
though she could hardly wait for the papers
to be issued. We would like Senator Frel-
inghuyson, or the Salt Lake correspondent
of the "New North West" to inform us why
this lady should be disfranchised.
	IN THE recently published Autobiography
of John Stuart Mill, M. P. he has declared
almost his entire life a disappointment.
His father, who had been educated for the
ministry but became an unbeliever, was his
teacher. At three years of age the child was
put to studying Greek, and at eight he had
read most of the renowned Greek works.
So his life and studies were continued; really
anything but pleasant and happy to himself.
He tells how he was disappointed "In his
fellow-students, in his fellow-laborers, in so-
ciety into which he had ceased to go, in his
father's opinions, in his own, in his political
efforts, in Parliament, in the philosophical
radicals, in the workingmen, in the Board on
which he worked all his life, in the reforms
he saw effected; in every thing with which
his life was associated except his fellowship
in feeling and labor with his wife, and that
for only seven years." Sad failure of a life,
one of honor and affluence, yet with no sat-
isfaction in it, for the man to whom it was
kindly lent. Parents who are ambitious for
the future of their children, may better
teach them to pray to and reverence God,
without ever putting a book into their hands,
than to crowd their brains with all sorts of
worldly knowledge in order that they may
become great in the eyes of the world.
More than one useful moral might be drawn
from the life-history of Mr. Mill as given by
himself.


