AN INTERESTING PAPER.

	Mr. Editor—Dear Sir: My father cut the
following from a paper printed in Albion,
Orleans Co., N. Y., some forty years ago.
Never having seen it in any other paper, I
will send it to you for a place in your col-
umn of “Religious Reading.—EMMA S. D.,
Albany Co., N. Y.
	“A description of the person of Jesus
Christ as it was found in an ancient manu-
script sent by PUBLIUS LENTULLUS, Presi-
dent of Judea, to the Senate of Rome:
	“There lives at this time, in Judea, a
man of singular character, whose name is
JESUS CHRIST. The barbarians esteem him
as their prophet; but his followers adore
him as the immediate offspring of the im-
mortal God. He is endowed with such un-
paralleled virtue as to call back the dead
from their graves, and to heal every kind of
disease with a word or touch. His person
is tall and elegantly shaped; his aspect amia-
ble and reverent; his hair grows in those
beauteous shades which no united colors can
match, falling in graceful curls below his
ears, agreeably couching on his shoulders
and parting on the crown of his head; his
dress of the sect of Nazarites; his forhead
smooth and large; his cheeks without either
spot, save that of lovely red; his nose and
mouth are formed with exquisite symmetry;
his beard is thick and suitable to the hair
of his head, reaching a little below his chin,
and parting in the middle like a fork; his
eyes are bright, clear and serene. He re-
bukes with mildness, and invites with the
most tender, persuasive language; his whole
address, whether in word or deed being ele-
gant, grave, and strictly characteristic of so
exalted a being. No man has ever seen him
laugh: but the whole world beholds him
weep frequently; and so persuasive are his
tears, that the whole multitude cannot with-
hold their tears from joining in sympathy
with him. He is modest, temperate and
wise. In short, whatever the phenomenon
may turn out in the end, he seems at pres-
ent to be a man of excellent beauty and di-
vine perfections, every way surpasing
men.'"—"Rural New Yorker."


