REFLECTIONS.

Dear Exponent:
	I would call attention to the 18th chapter
of Revelations—read the whole chapter.
Now, what I wish to say concerning it, is
this:—Are we to understand, as is generally
conceded, that this "fall of Babylon" means
her overthrow and utter destruction; or does
it refer to her departure from the paths of
rectitude, and the principles of rigeteous-
ness, virtue and morality? I think the lat-
ter: and that the sayings therein containted,
strictly personate and declare the present
situation of this American, or Republican
Government. For how—oh how! hath she
fallen! That great city, Babylon. Now
Babylon signifies confusion—mixed:—What
government so confused and mixed as this?
bearing the elements of every other govern-
ment, and the inhabitants of every other
nation. Where have the merchants of all
nations made themselves rich in the traffic
of metals and all merchandise, and in slaves
and souls of men?
	After speaking of her fall, it says in verse
8. "Therefore shall her plagues come in one
day," and tells what they are—"Death and
mourning and famine, and she shall be ut-
terly burned with fire." Then, in the 10th
verse it says "In one hour is thy judgment
come." Also in the 17th verse, "For in one
hour so great riches is come to nought."
We understand that one day with the Lord
is as a thousand years, and one hour, the
twenty-fourth part of a day, or of a thou-
sand years, is forty-one years and two-thirds
of a year.
	Have not the destructions here spoken of
commenced? Was there not "death and
mourning" when Columbia's sons were slain
by thousands and tens of thousands in the 
late internecine war? Is not the earth with
its contents being burned up? Is not the
blood of the prophets found in her? See
24th verse. And if Jerusalem was to be
adjudged guilty of the blood of all the pro-
phets from the days of Able to the death of
Zachariah in their day, how much more shall
this government be charged with the blood
of Prophets, of Saints and all the blood that
has been shed upon the earth! having the ex-
amples of all previous generations:—May
God help us to understand.
							M.


