	 ﻿WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	In order that the following act may be read
in connection with some portions of extracts to
which we here give place, we publish it, as
taken from the published Laws of Utah.  Read
it carefully, friends, and before you have finish-
ed this article, you will, without doubt, refer to
it once or twice again.
				 AN ACT,
CONFERRING UPON WOMEN THE ELECTIVE
				FRANCHISE.
	Section 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legis-
lative Assembly of the Territory of Utah: That every
woman of the age of twenty-one years who has resided
in this Territory six months next preceeding any general
or special election, born or naturalized in the United
States, or who is the wife, widow or the daughter of a
native-born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this Territory.
	Sec. 2. All laws or parts of laws conflicting with this
act are hereby repeated.
	Approved, February 12th, 1870.
	Mrs. Duniway has, in the “New North
West” of Jan. 30th, an article containing a
lengthy portion of a letter from Salt Lake, on
the Frelinghuysen Bill. She says:
	"A legal gentleman of Salt Lake City, whose acquaint-
ance and friendship we value highly, has written us at
length in favor of Senator Frelinghuysen's Utah bill.
We are sorry he does not give us liberty to publish his
argument in full over his own signature, as its subject
matter is candidly discussed. But he fails to convince
us that the Bill is what it ought to be.”
	Speaking of the provision of the bill men-
tioned, her friend has written:
	“By this provision the right of dower will be returned
to every lawful wife in Utah, the repeal of which, by
legislation, has been the cause of so much complaint.
	We should like this legal defender (?) of the
rights of woman, to tell us something more
about the complaint which has been made con-
cerning this act of our Territorial legislature,
as this is the first we have heard of it. We
wonder if he supposes the women of Utah
would relinquish the power of the ballot, with
all its additional rights, for the mercenary con-

[Column 2]
sideration to which he refers. They are by no
means such foolish worshippers of money, as
he may be, very likely is, himself.
	Again we extract:
	“But yourself and Mr. Blackwell object to the Freling-
huysen bill because it amends the statute of Utah con-
fering suffrage on women. Have either of you ever seen
that law?—a law that rivets the fetters of degradation
upon the poor, brutalized victims of lust and fanaticism
in Utah, and adds the contempt of compelling them to
draw tighter the chains while they wear them. Having
first, by a system of brutalism so revolting that in other
civilized countries it consigns those who indulge in it to
the cell of the felon, reduced the women of Utah to the
most abject shame, they seek to divert the attention of
the country from their crimes by conferring, nominally,
the right to vote on women, and some of our avowed
advocates of the question of universal suffrage allow
themselves to be caught in this transparent snare.
Why is it that the anomaly of reducing women to mere
'things' through the system of polygamy has not invit-
ed scrutiny into the paradox of investing these 'things'
with the elective franchise? When Napoleon was cho-
sen First General he had the ballots of the people, but
how? 'Vote as you please, but remember, that he who
does not cast his vote for General Bonaparte shall be
shot.' The women of Utah are entitled to vote, but
every Mormon woman knows that to vote for her free-
dom is to bring down upon her head swift and irrevoca-
ble ruin. You might as well have advocated suffrage
for the slaves of the South before their emancipation.
The ballot that does not and cannot express the senti-
ment of the voter is a burlesque on the right of suffrage,
in that the suffrage makes women sanction their own
degradation and support a system which they at heart
abhor. It is a cruelty that has about it a coolness and
ingenuity that is purely satanic. And your intelligent
advocates of woman’s right to vote in order to give her
independence, and elevate her to the social and busi-
ness departments of life, are blinded by their seeming
adherence to principle into an indorsement of that
which to-day is doing more to keep the women of Utah
in the bondage of polygamy than all else.
	"Would not the giving of the ballot to the Southern
slave without emancipating him from the control of
his master have been but a cruel mockery? It would
have added simply to the power of the oppressor.
	"Such is the situation in Utah, and the residents of
this woman-degrading Territory know this and have
asked that the statute be annulled, which enables the
enemies of woman's elevation to keep her in her pres-
ent degraded position.
	"Let emancipation be accomplished first, and then the
ballot can be given where it can be used to express the
wishes of the voter.
	"Now as to the statute of Utah which we ask shall be
amended:
	"First, you are aware, probably. that a large majority
of women in Utah are of foreign birth, and when, ac-
cording to Mormon statements, you are informed that
there are three thousand men, who have from one to
twenty wives each, you can judge of the number of
women who are living in polygamy—ten thousand is a
low estimate. There are then three thousand male na-
tives, and ten thousand women who are committed by
their votes to the system of polygamy—saying nothing
of the non-polygamous movement—the former being a
majority of two-thirds of the votes of the Territory.
The law not only allows the wives, but the daughters of
male citizens to vote, without reference to age and with-
out naturalization, requiring no time of residence ex-
cept on the part of the husband, and thus we are over-
borne by a tide of ignorance and fanaticism in defiance
of all right or justice.
	“You call Senator Frelinghuysen’s Bill a ‘serpent.’
If you had felt the serpent’s tooth that this Bill proposes
to extract you would not thus speak. I yield to no one
in the sincerity of my advocacy of the doctrine of Uni-
versal Suffrage; but its application must, like all other
measures, be governed by circumstances of time and
place. You seem not to comprehend that you cannot
apply the same rule to a set of ignorant crazy fanatics
that you could to a civilized and sane community. Re-
member that when you deal with lunatics you may
have to put them into straight-jacket treatment; and
rules perfectly applicable to other Territories cannot be
adopted in Utah. Her people must first be emancipated
from religious fanaticism: must realize something of
the responsibilities of citizens before they can be trust-
ed with those sacred privileges which even the best-in-
formed often abuse."
	Mrs. Dunaway then comments thus:—
	“If our friend doesn’t want us to print what he writes,
he mustn’t write such good letters. And with this
apology for publishing so much of his letter as relates
to Senator Frelinghuysen’s Bill, we now proceed to no-
tice the main feature of the Bill, which is the determi-
nation to disenfranchise the Women of Utah:
	We have no doubt but our friend truthfully portrays
the system of compelling Mormon wives to vote ac-


cording to the dictates of their masters; but we fail to
see why the women, only, should be deprived of the
right of suffrage because the Mormon men compel them
to abuse the right. We should heartily second the pas-
sage of a Bill to disfranchise both men and women who
live in polygamy, but, despite our correspondent’s dis-
claimer, we emphatically insist that any legislation
which makes invidious distinction against women as
American citizens is a serpent more dangerous than the
deadliest Cobra.
	We all know that the old English common law recog-
nizes no property rights in woman which her husband
is bound to respect. And while the right of dower to
the first, or lawful wife, in Utah, or anywhere else,
should be respected, we must not forget that there are
thousands of Mormon women whom the provisions of
this Bill would cut off from any claim to a support from
their fractional husbands for themselves and children.
These women are just as good, morally, as the ‘legal,’
or first wives, many of whom espoused Mormonism,
polygamy and all, of their own free-will and choice.
They and their children have moral rights, despite their
degradation, which the legal wife and children cannot
rightfully ignore.
	If the ballot in their hands, and those of their masters,
is a fetter, strike it from the hands of both oppressor
and oppressed and we shall not complain; but let Con-
gress pass the infamous Bill of insidious class legisla-
tion now pending, and the Nation shall witness a cla-
mor compared to which that over the back-salary steal
was mere child’s play.”
	We do not envy Mrs. Duniway the “acquaint-
ance and friendship,” of one who could descend
to such misstatements and direct falsehoods.
We presume he had good reasons for wishing
his name withheld from publication. Perhaps
it was that he felt himself unable to withstand
the keen shafts of Truth which might be point-
ed at him from the “Deseret News.” Or that
he dreaded the idea of falling under the good-
natured, but well-aimed criticisms of the “Salt
Lake Herald.” It is quite as well for him, at
all events, that he is a coward as well as tra-
ducer. For it is possible that some of those
women, who have been “reduced to mere
THINGS through the system of polygamy,”
have still sufficient fire left in their composi-
tion, to make Salt Lake too warm for such a
villifier of their purity and intelligence.
	But we are surprised, mortified and indig-
nant that Mrs. D.—a WOMAN—a well-informed,
sensible woman, should allow herself to be so
easily led to so far concur in sentiments intend-
ed to prove the inferiority of her sex. Why
did she not answer this calumniator of woman’s
worth, in the language of a true, brave de-
fender of honor and of woman? Was he not
basely maligning her sisters at Salt Lake, and,
indeed, casting indignities upon her sex in gen-
eral, by his inferences? That TEN THOUSAND
WOMEN, already possessed of the high power of
franchise—for which they are all contending—
would be tamely, meanly submissive to debas-
ing and degrading injuries from three thousand
men, is an insult to WOMAN, besides being a
burlesque on common sense. We should cer-
tainly suppose that any woman could readily
perceive that this false character is no defender
of woman’s virtue, no advocate of her rights;
but that he seeks to hide his littleness, under a
thin covering of sophistry. If there exists a
serpent with a venomous tooth in Utah, it is
with such as himself, who would take from
woman the legitimate rights, which the spirit
of truth and liberty has confered.
	It is not the subject but our space which we
have exhausted for the present.


