			HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	If the first duty of the woman lies at home, it is
the duty of the man to provide the home, and pro-
tect and sustain her in it. Moreover, as man is
king in his domain, so woman should be queen in
hers—the home should be her kingdom; she should
be the disburser of the revenues supplied by the
man, and made responsible for the exercise of her
powers for the general prosperity of her domain and
the welfare and happiness of her subjects.
	The love of beauty and refinement belongs to
every true woman. She ought to desire, in modera-
tion, pretty dresses, and delight in beautiful colors
and graceful fabrics; she ought to take a certain,
not too excessive, pride in herself, and be solicitous
to have all belonging to her well-chosen and in good
taste: to care for the perfect ordering of her house,
and harmony and fitness of her furniture, the clean-
liness of her surroundings, and good style of her
arrangements; she ought not to like singularity,
either of habit or appearance, or be able to stand
out against a fashion when fashion has become cus-
tom: she ought to make herself conspicuous only by
the perfection of her taste, by the grace and harmo-
ny of her dress, and unobtrusive good-breeding of 
her manners: she ought to set the seal of gentlewo-
man on every square inch of her life, and shed the
radiance of her own beauty and refinement on every
material object about her.—Selected.
							[For the EXPONENT
	Grandma's "Dutch Cake".—Take one half tea-
cup full of good yeast, one cup of sugar, three eggs,
two spoonfulls of shortening, one cup of raisins, or
dried grapes, one cup of warm, sweet milk or water,
and flour enough to make a thick batter; let it stand
and rise and bake like bread; you will find it good
eating and not unhealthy				M. O. K.

	Meat Toast.—Take as much meat as you require
and mince finely. To one pint of mince put two
tablespoonfuls of cream, or fresh, rich milk. Boil
it five minutes; prepare well buttered toast, and
spread the mince on them. Strew over this
well grated bread crumbs, a little parsley if desired,
and some small pieces of butter. Brown in a quick
oven and serve hot.

	To Cure a Cold.—Mother K. is nearly ninety years
of age, has a voice like a ship's captain, and her

[Column 2]
cure for a cold is so good and simple I must tell you
about it. Cut an onion in slices, add salt, pepper
and a little piece of butter with a half pint of wa-
ter. Stew until the onion is done. Drink the liquor
hot, when going to bed. It will cause the sweetest
sleep; and three times trying will cure, if taken as
soon as the cold is. By putting in a little honey or
sugar instead of the seasoning, you have a pleasant
tea. Please try it.

	Recipe for Crystalizing Grasses.—Get one pound 
of alum, dissolve in one quart of water scalding
hot; pour into a wide crock and put your grass inside
holding the stem in your hand for ten minutes, then
turn them over and rest or wait for five or ten min-
utes more; turn them again and so on until the wa-
ter is nearly cold; then lay them out to dry. The
water ca nbe heated again and used in the same way
for smaller grasses. The largest should be used first.
Grasses treated in this way and mixed with some
that have not been so treated, make a very nice
boquet.—H. V.

	Peas' Cake.--Look over and wash one pint of dry,
white marrow-fat peas (whole or split); add two
quarts of water cover close and stew gently, until
the peas are quite reduced to a pulp; strain through
a course sieve or a colander; salt to the taste, and 
pour into a flat dish to the depth of an inch or more;
let this stand to cool several hours, or until it is quite
firm; cut in short, slices half an inch thick, and serve
cold, as a relish, wlth bread and butter and stewed
fruit. It is palatable, nutritious and wholesome,
provided one does not eat too much. Cooked in
steam, or in a double boiler, it requires less water.

	To Color Azure Blue.--This will not fade on
cotton. For three pounds of goods; use of copperas
4 ozs; prussiate of potash, 2 ozs; oil vitriol, 1 oz;
dissolve the copperas in two pails of soft water; and
scald the goods in this solution two hours, then take
out and rinse in cold water. Empty the kettle and
put in two pails of clean water. Dissolve in it the
prussiate of potash; boil the goods in this solution
twenty minutes; take out and stir in the oil of vit-
riol. Again put in the goods and let them remain
until as dark as desired. Rinse thoroughly in cold
water and let it dry; afterwards wash in soap suds
and this color will not fade.


