A LETTER.
		South Cottonwood, Feb. 1874.
MRS. L. Greene Richards:—
	I have been thinking of writing something
for the EXPONENT a long time; but being
young and timid, I have only just gained
sufficient courage to undertake the task.
First, I must ask permission of you, to have
my letter published. I do not know as I
can write any thing to edify any one, but I
think by trying, I may be able to benefit
myself.
	I will speak to the young daughters of
Zion. I wish I could see you all, and tell
you what I think about some things. I
would ask you to be steadfast, ever walking
in the paths of righteousness. We should
be more and more cautious every day, of be-
ing led astray, remembering that we are
surrounded with every kind of influence,
both bad and good, I fear almost more of the
former than the latter. We should, if pos-
sible, guard against all evil things. And of
course we can if we will. Let us retrench
in our dress and in our actions, and be very
careful with whom we associate. The young
men of our day like to see us dress well, and
we like to please them; but we should not
go to excess, either to gratify their whims
or our own. I am sorry there are not more
young men in this Territory, that are very
good, quiet kind of men; but there are some
such, and I would give them all the credit
which is due them. If we will live as we
should live, the right one will come along
in the right time, for every girl, not one
need throw herself away. Let us ever
serve God and keep his commandments.
	I will bid my young sisters good day. God
bless you all and help you to do his will, is
ever the prayer of your faithful sister.
							E. E. D.


[Column 1]
﻿	THE INFLUENCE OF FLOWERS.
	As spring is here, and time for the
planting of flowers now approaches, we
would call attention to this beautiful and
healthful employment. Upon this subject,
a successful and experienced New York busi-
ness man, has written as follows:
	“If the penchants of men could be turned
from billiards, dinners, club-houses, theaters,
riches, excessive business application and
the vulgar mania for cheap, vapid distinc-
tion; and the penchants of ladies from the
enslavements of arbitrary forms and fash-
ions and the trivial occupations which these
impose, to a real, practical fondness for flow-
ers—a physical, moral and intellectual bene-
fit to them and to their children would prove
the happy result.
	Every part of flower culture, from the
preparation of the soil to the gathering of
the seed, requires a gentle, skillful, patient
hand—hence its wholesome and disciplining
influence in these directions. As inhaling,
noisome odors, living among unsightly sur-
roundings, associating with foul-mouthed,
untidy people tend to stifle every aesthetic
sense and beget a kindred taste and spirit,
so living among the flowers and, as it were,
talking their chaste language, breathing
their fragrance, watching and caring for the
plant from the seed to maturity, cannot fail
to purify, or to create—to strengthen every
refining inpulse of the soul.
	In some of the vilest districts of New
York, we occasionally see in windows, gera-
niums, morning glories, ivies or other vigor-
ous plants. It maybe from the fifth story of
a building—the home of perhaps twenty
families. Call in at this room having the
[Column 2]
flowers in its window and see if in its scanty
furniture there is not a tidiness and preci-
sion not noticeable in other apartments. See
if the woman and her husband and her chil-
dren are not more kindly spoken, more man-
nerly, more decent than the occupants of
the other sections. Still further—inquire if
this family of the flowers has not “seen bet-
ter days” than those which condemned it to
a fifth story room in a neighborhood of filth
and wickedness.
	The natural love of flowers guarantees a
superior natural intelligence. It guarantees
a kind heart and affectionate impulses. Pick
out, then, this fifth story room if you are in
search of a servant. The little girl will not
choke your baby to keep it from crying; the
man will not kick and bruise your horse;
the woman will do your house-work dili-
gently and thank you sincerely for every act
of benevolence.
	The general diffusion—or a more general
diffusion—of a love of flowers is what, above
all other things, we sordid, plodding Ameri-
can people need. Ye heads of large houses,
ye brokers, ye merchant princes, alas! would
that ye merited such high sounding names,
—listen! cut down your expenses for just
one year a thousand dollars or so, and invest
this saving in a flower-garden—aye, a flow-
er-bed. Start for your offices a little later
and return a little earlier each day. Devote
an hour to the companionship of flowers.
It will invest home with a new, potent and
enduring charm; it will open a path to
higher thoughts; it will unite you more
closely to your wife and children; it will re-
veal the grinding selfishness of your busi-
ness relations; it will induce a more liberal
course towards those in your employ and it
will have its effect to raise the disreputable
standard of most mercantile pursuits as they
are at this day conducted.
	The question is often asked among new
acquaintances. “Are you fond of flowers?”
Rarely, we guess, is the reply in the nega-
tive—for those who are not fond of flowers
are ashamed to make it known; and full
well they may be. Are not the most capti-
vating scenes in nature but vast flower-gar-
dens? A natural park from which we cull
the choicest gems to adorn the epitome
grounds about our homes. They lack, in-
deed, but the grandeur of an extended
view. The cultivated grassy lawn is not to
be found upon the untouched hillside. The
tricolor Geraniums, the Roses, Camellias,
Gladioli and Carnations of to-day—glorious
results of the florist’s patient skill—we can
scarcely believe are the sisters of the mod-
est, simple plants which we meet in the
fields. Alas, then, for her or for him who
loves not the flower-garden—for, with the
same eye and sentiments, must be viewed
the hill and the valley, the woods and the
fields and all of earth’s growing things with
which God has beautified the world.”


A generous Georgia girl recently peddled
out 300 kisses at ten cents a smack and then
gave the money to the poor to buy coal and
flannel and things.
	Honorable mention is made of a Maine
servant girl who is now serving her 82nd
winter under the same roof. Per contra, a
Missouri girl aged 9, keeps her father’s
house and makes his trowsers.
	There are milk baths in New York City
which are patronized largely by ladies who
pay $5 per bath in milk that is warranted
pure, for the sake of improving their health
and beautifying their complexion.


