VOCAL CULTURE.

* * * * * * * Until recently the
practical belief has been that the ability to
read or speak well was a gift, not an acquire-
ment.
	No analysis of the subject had been made,
and but few teachers were able to detect the
radical defects in the utterances of pupils,
much less to correct them. Reading books
contained a few exercises in articulation,
emphasis, inflection, pauses &c., and these
accidents were considered the Alpha and
Omega of utterance.
	Now, however, a more careful investiga-
tion of the subject has disclosed the fact
that every vocal expression contains six es-
sential elements, viz.: Form of voice, quali-
ty of voice, force of voice, stress of voice,
pitch of voice, and movement of voice, and
that excellence in reading or speaking con-
sists in a proper use of these six elements;
that from a combination of two or more of
these elements all other attributes of utter-
ance are produced, and that the defects of
reading and speaking are almost entirely the
result of an improper use of one or more of
these six elements.
	The defects in inflection, emphasis, ar-
ticulation, &c., that weaken or destroy the
power of expression are few indeed in com-
parison to the defects in quality, form, stress,
pitch, force and movement. And yet it is,
perhaps, safe to affirm that nine teachers out
of every ten and ninety-nine speakers out of
every hundred can neither define nor illus-
trate form, much less give it application to
the various styles of thought. How one
can read correctly or teach others to read
correctly, a selection the elements of which
he does not understand practically or theo-
retically, is a mystery yet unsolved. No
one would presume to sing a tune, ignorant
of the notes composing the tune, and yet to
read without knowing the elements of utter-
ance is quite as difficult.
	That these elements of expression exist
and are observed by all who have attained
distinction in this department, all will admit
who have attentively observed.
	Booth, Murdoch, Barret, Siddons, Cush-
man, all read pathos with effusive form,
pure tone, subdued force, medium stress,
low pitch, and slow movement; didactic
thoughts with expulsive form, pure tone,
moderate force, radical stress, middle pitch,
and moderate movement; and this they do
because it is in harmony with the principles
of nature—principles established by the
Almighty himself "when the morning stars
sang together and all the sons of God shout-
ed for joy;" principles still exhibited by
Him in every bird that carrols its joyous
song of praise to its Maker, in every hissing
serpent that crawls upon the ground, in
every sighing breeze that murmurs among
the branches, and every angry, roaring tor-
nado that sweeps across our prairies. That
which constitutes the difference in the read-
ing of these distinguished artists is not in
the use of different elements' but the group-
ing of the same elements,
	To read aright, we must determine and
then employ the appropriate elements of
utterance.—"American Journal of Educa-
tion."


THE GOVERNOR of Maine has asked the
Supreme Court for a decision upon the ques-
tion of the legal right of a woman to be a
Justice of the Peace. Wouldn’t the gov-
ernor of Utah prefer to decide all such
questions himself?


