HOME AFFAIRS.

	HARPER'S MONTHLY for this month, con-
tains illustrated articles on the Light-houses,
and the Observatories of the United States,
also other reading, suited to almost every taste.
For sale at Campbell & Patterson’s, Main St.
	A DIRECTORY of Salt Lake City and Utah
Territory, to be edited by Mr. E. L. Sloan, and


issued by the S. L. Herald Publishing Co., is
announced. The work is in competent hands
and as it will be one of great and general bene-
fit it is respectfully desired that every facility
for obtaining correct information of names,
residences, etc., be extended to canvassers.

	THE MEMBERS of the new City Council, ex-
cepting two not present, were sworn into office
at the regular meeting on the evening of the
17th ult. 

	THE ANNIVERSARY of Washington's birth-
day falling on Sunday this year, Monday the
23rd was observed as a holiday instead. Al-
though there were no public ceremonies in
honor of the occasion, business was generally
suspended, and the "Star Spangled Banner"
floated from many public buildings and places
of business. Quietness amd peace prevailed
during the day.

	WE LEARN from recent communications to
the S. L. Herald that workmen from Franklin,
Weston, Lewiston and Oxford, in Cache Co.,
are energetically grading on the U. N. R. R., as
fast as weather will permit. The officers and
employees are highly commended for their “en-
ergy, courtesy and attention to their duties.”
We are also pleased to notice in the same paper
a well deserved compliment paid to the con-
ductor on the Utah Central.

	THE TWENTY-FIRST Session of the Legisla-
ture of Utah, closed at 6 o’clock A. M., on Sat-
urday, Feb. 21st. the members having been at
work the previous night. At the joint session
towards the close, and during election of offi-
cers, on motion of Mr. Mann, Miss Joan M.
Campbell and Miss Georgiana Snow were elect-
ed Notaries Public for Salt Lake County. The
ladies of Utah should be fast preparing them-
selves to occupy responsible and worthy posi-
tion; and it is gratifying to know that many of
them are taking advantage of every opportu-
nity presented for this purpose.


