[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 72 | PDF Page 75]
[Title: Social Science — Graduation of Divine Law]

--- PAGE 71 (PDF page 74) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

of the teaching has varied somewhat from dispensation to dispensation.

Revealed What Could Be Understood

God walked and talked with some of the prophets. To others he communicated through revelation and the visitation of angels. As the growth and development of man occurred, the greater ramifications of the law were presented.

Divine Direction Influenced by Man's Willingness to Co-operate

During the leadership of Moses the children of Israel were so steeped in the worldly ways of the Egyptians and were so slow to repent, that they were given the carnal law of "an eye for an eye," etc. Finally they were so resistant to righteousness, that the Lord took away the higher Priesthood, leaving them only the enlightenment of the temporal law. This seemed to be all they could understand.

In the meridian of time Christ, through his personal appearance (testified of by all the prophets), fulfilled the law, restored the Melchizedek Priesthood, and organized his Church. The basis of his government was found in the same divine law that had been revealed to Adam. "Only a comparatively small group of his own people accepted him. "At no time since the days of Adam, had the Gospel been so fully taught and made so simply clear to the understanding as in the days of Jesus" (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Rational Theology 4th ed., page 57).

Within a few generations, through apostasy, the Priesthood and Church government were taken from the earth. ". . . darkness covereth the earth, and gross darkness the minds of the people, and all flesh has become corrupt before my face" (D & C 112:23).

In the dispensation of the fulness of times, the Lord has restored every right, key, power, and authority that had ever been given to help man realize the full purpose of his creation. Dr. Widtsoe, referring to this period of time, writes:

Finally, as men broke through the darkness, as intelligence became diffused among all men, and liberality of thought grew and became respected, the Gospel was restored with the authority of the Priesthood and the organization of the Church (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 25).

Divine Law Gives Direction and Incentive to All Men

Since the days of Adam and his children the Lord has directed his servants to teach all the people of the mission of Jesus Christ and its saving power through repentance and baptism, in order that all mankind can enjoy the blessings of heaven and the promises of God.

This directive to call all men to repentance was repeated with emphasis through each of the prophets. In Adam's day ". . . the Lord God called upon men by the Holy Ghost everywhere and commanded them that they should repent" (Moses 5:14). All who repented received the blessings; the progress of those who did not was stopped.

Before the flood, Noah, an ordained prophet, ". . . called upon the children of men that they should repent" (Moses 8:20). The Lord told Abraham that his seed "shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations" (Abraham 2:9). Christ sent his apostles to all

73

--- PAGE 72 (PDF page 75) ---
JANUARY 1963

the world, and John the Revelator declared the gospel would be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. (See Rev. 14:6-7; see also D & C 133:37-38.)

The Separation of the Children of God

As we examine the record of man in the holy scripture, we are impressed with the fact that comparatively few of the children of men followed the direction set forth in divine law.

Adam's rebellious children were shut out of the presence of the Lord and ". . . dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden" (Moses 5:41). The descendants of Nod were scattered "abroad upon the face of all the earth" (Genesis 11:9).

Through Abraham's righteousness and prayers, he being of the direct lineage of Adam through the prophets, the Lord preserved his life and led him and his family out of the land of the idolaters to a place where they could preserve the lineage through which the Savior of mankind would come.

From dispensation to dispensation the nonbelievers in the world increased, until idolaters, pagans, and other nonbelievers in the divine mission of Christ, constituted the masses of mankind.

Secular records reveal men in early times as individuals ruled by force and organized primarily to resist invasion and destruction or to extend their power over others by the application of force.

Through trial and error, investigation, and experimentation; through the use of his intellect and by the processes of reason and reflective thinking; and through the grace of

God and the Spirit that "giveth light to every man that cometh into the world" (D & C 84:46), men have accumulated culture and slowly and painfully improved their status to a present level of achievement. Man's development through the use of his intelligence is but a reflection of the divinity of his origin.

The record of man's cultural development is closely connected with the development of weapons of destruction. The rise of great nations indicates a combination of intellectual achievement and the application of inventive genius to the production of effective weapons of war. It likewise indicates a lack of understanding of the divine purpose in the creation of man. Today, man is reaching the climax of the development of his destructive power. There now exists the physical power through man's knowledge to destroy our civilization.

It should be clearly understood that in contrast to the evidence of force indicated in the secular record as so important in man's development, the religious records place the emphasis upon love and understanding as having a more direct correlation with intelligent growth and development. Love was and is the basic motivation in the plan of life and salvation as presented by Jesus Christ. It is the only power known to man by which peace may be established in the hearts of men.

Divine Direction Makes Man Reach Up — Godhead

A child normally inherits the characteristics of the parents. To be the spirit child of God and created

74

--- PAGE 73 (PDF page 76) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

physically in his image, provides the important idea that the progress of man is limited only by his ambition and personal application. Certainly his relationship to Deity provides perfection for his ideal. To have a goal is the first essential to progress. With our Father in heaven as the ideal of man, the natural effect is to lift man up. To understand this concept, however, man must be in tune with the spirit of the Creator. This will come in the recognition of and adherence to the divine law, testified to by the Holy Ghost and administered under the direction of the Priesthood.

When God created man and placed him on earth with the admonition to subdue the earth and have dominion over it, the seeds of discontent were sown. The admonition meant for man to know all about the earth and its contents — examining its make-up, learning its secrets, and putting to use its latent powers for the benefit and welfare of mankind. "By the sweat of thy brow" did not mean to labor forever by hand. It was the challenge for man to use his physical, mental, and spiritual capacities to find out the unknown. He was to find the answer to every perplexity with which he was presented in satisfying human needs and, in the process, subduing the earth and gaining dominion over every living thing.

We are told that light and truth are eternal (see D & C 84:44-46) and, by the processes of reflective thinking and reasoning, man can discover light and truth. Through invention, or finding the various uses and applications for the discoveries made, he expands his knowl-

edge and applies the information to beneficial use. Thus man moves in progress toward his ideal.

Divine Principles of Progress Applied to Man
The divine law places the responsibility for growth, development, and eventual exaltation upon each individual. But the Lord has provided man with adequate instruction graded to suit his experience and development and has made available to him inspiration and revelation.

The Law of Choice
There is a law eternal in nature that assures man the privilege of choice. "The Lord God gave unto man that he should act for himself. . . . Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh" (2 Nephi 2:16, 27). This includes two very closely related conditions — the opportunity for election and the responsibility of performance. Man, really to enjoy the benefit of his freedom of choice, must know the law. To receive the blessings promised by the law, he must, of his own free will and choice, carry out the requirements of the law, the decision to be made on the basis of his conviction that it is right. True virtue is knowing the good and the bad and choosing the good.

This World Is a Training Ground
With right of choice and the availability of divine guidance, man is charged with the responsibility of performance equal to the opportunity presented to him. Freedom of choice means nothing without opposition. "For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all

75

--- PAGE 74 (PDF page 77) ---
JANUARY 1963

things. If not so . . . righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad . . ." (2 Nephi 2:11).

Man, through experience, including prayer, learns to understand his relationship to God and his creations. Being a child of God spiritually, man has the divine spark that causes him to reach up to and cry out for divine guidance. Man's life span generally provides the time and opportunity for intellectual and spiritual development equal to inherited capacity.

Self-discipline in bringing one's appetites and desires in line with unselfish consideration of others in all human relations is a major part of this world's training.

Due to man's ability to transmit culture from generation to generation, it is possible to build upon the experience of the past. In this sense each generation stands on the shoulders of the generation that preceded it. The progress of the new generation is measured in terms of the expansion of its cultural heritage.

In review, then, this training ground gives us an opportunity to develop spiritually, temporally, and intellectually. It is for the purpose of finding out what man will do with his opportunities and abilities.

For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned (D & C 58:28-29).

Work Is Basic to Progress

When the "first family" was given the assignment to subdue the earth, it had reference to hard, physical work. The Lord said "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread" (Genesis 3:19). Adam was to overcome the weeds and thistles in order to live. He had to work with his hands and use his ability to solve problems. This involved thinking, reasoning, faith, and inspiration.

In modern scripture the Lord says that the idler has no place among his people. "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer" (D & C 42:42). The scriptures indicate that God ordained work as essential to exaltation.

From the scriptures we glean that doing is important. In fact, it is what you do about what you know that really counts. "Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves" (James 1:22).

The divine directions given for exaltation involve a constant quest for enlightenment. Growth is as much a spiritual and intellectual law as a physical law. There is no growth, development, or enlightenment without energy and effort expended.

To subdue the earth has meant a constant struggle to discover the elements and their uses for the benefit of man. "To subdue the earth" has also an intellectual implication, for the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D & C 131:6). Spiritually the challenge is the same. "The glory of God is intelligence,

76