[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 4 | PDF Page 7]
[Title: Teach Virtue and Modesty]

--- PAGE 6 --- ERROR: Error code: 400 - {'type': 'error', 'error': {'type': 'invalid_request_error', 'message': 'Output blocked by content filtering policy'}, 'request_id': 'req_011CYrTHmLzHfmcHZCMGEYQw'}

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 7) ---
JANUARY 1963

vic to become Miss America or Miss Utah or California or some other State, and they have to be put on exhibition like prize cattle and go through all kinds of stunts, and dress so they have no show their bodies. Pardon me for talking plainly. I think it is disgraceful that we have reached that point in our lives where, as one of my good brethren said several years ago, "Virtue, modesty are dead." Now we need reformation.

You mothers in your homes, are you in the habit of letting your little children run around scantily clothed because it is warm weather, practically naked or nearly so? And they grow up that way, that is, think-

ing that there is nothing wrong in exposing their bodies. What did the Lord give Adam and Eve garments for? To clothe themselves, and the Lord does not like nakedness. And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do?

The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

A Song of Wheels

Margery S. Stewart

The wagon wheels are high and white,
They make a scarring in the snow,
The way that wheels do, coming hard
Behind the oxen, dark and slow.
The wind, a winter Indian, stalks
Past tattered canvas, tattered shawl.
Crouched on the ridges, broods the night,
Like taloned birds, the shadows fall.
Then from the farthest wagon back,
A grizzled man begins to sing,
The song is like him, strong and deep,
The music makes a rising ring,
A spreading splendor in the dark,
To which the others bend their brands.
Someone else against the stark
Oppression sings out sure and bold.
Others . . . and others . . . here and here . . .
Until the notes are all held high,
A fire of music in the night.
Forgotten spectres turn and fly,
Once more the wagons circle and stand.
The dark shrinks back to the edge of the land.

6

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 8) ---
Modesty Protects Virtue

Elder Mark E. Petersen
Of the Council of the Twelve

[Address Delivered in the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962]

INDEED it is a great privilege and an honor to be in your presence here this morning, my sisters. I am always humble when in the presence of the wonderful women of this Church. I am convinced that the sisters of the Latter-day Saints are truly angelic in many, many ways. I feel confident that you are the stalwarts that lend so much strength to the entire Church through your marvelous devotion, so it is indeed a great honor and a privilege to be in your presence.

During the first months following the organization of the Relief Society in 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith addressed the sisters a number of times. He endeavored to set the standard and show the way for this marvelous organization. One of his principal themes was that the sisters should uphold morality and right and promote virtue among members of the Church.

Brigham Young also stressed the importance of the sisters upholding high standards, and, at one time, he said, "These Relief Societies are for the improvement of our manners, our dress, our habits, and our methods of living."

The Lord spoke at various times pertaining to the virtues which he expects the Latter-day Saints to preserve. At one time he said, "Practise virtue and holiness before me continually" (D & C 46:33). And while the Prophet was in Liberty Jail, the Lord spoke to him and said, ". . . let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God (D & C 12:45).

Inasmuch as he used the expression, "Practise virtue and holiness before me continually," I feel that the Lord not only spoke of virtue in the sense of chastity, but also in a broader sense, even as we speak of the different virtues represented in our Latter-day Saint standards.

Since the Lord seemed to include general connotation of the word virtue in his revelations, I went to the dictionary to see what it had to say on this subject. Among other things, it gave as definitions, courage, strength, valor, efficacy, excellence, merit, rectitude, purity, and chastity. I was particularly interested for the moment in the word valor which was given as a synonym and, as a result, refreshed my mind on the dictionary definition of that word. Valor was defined as strength of mind which enables one to encounter danger firmly. It stands for gallantry, heroism, personal bravery, and courage.

Then I began to ask myself, what are the virtues the Lord had in mind when he urged the saints to "let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly . . ." and ". . . practise virtue

7

--- PAGE 6 (PDF page 9) ---
JANUARY 1963

and holiness before me continually"? My reply was, we must practise the teachings of the Savior by upholding all of the standards of the Church. Without the standards of the Church there is no holiness, nor any virtue either in its broader sense or in the strict definition of chastity.

I began to list some of the standards of the Church which pertain to holiness and the various virtues the Lord expects to find in a Latter-day Saint. I mention just a few of them: first, "We believe in being true." Again, it is as essential as the gospel itself. Next it came, "We believe in being chaste." Benevolence, of course, is mentioned and also patience, long-suffering, brotherly and sisterly kindness, forgiveness, charity, godliness, humility, and diligence.

ALL of these are essential virtues, but, as I read them, I remembered that one of the definitions of virtue is valor, and that valor is the strength of mind which enables one to encounter danger firmly with personal bravery and courage.

Next I asked myself, are our virtues, our standards, in danger? Is there need for valor and courage and strength in meeting such dangers today? Then I remembered that in these days there are many dangers which confront us and our families, as well as even our little ones. I remembered that delinquency in the United States is growing at a rate five times faster than the Nation's population; that divorce is reaching new highs even among the Latter-day Saints; that both adult and juvenile delinquency

are threatening the solidarity of our homes and families, and that danger is facing us in tremendous proportions.

Who can stop this condition? Who can build up our most important defenses? Who has the courage to do so?

When I noted that the chief threat is to our homes and families, I remembered that the Prophet Joseph Smith laid it upon the Relief Society women of the Church to protect our homes and families by preserving virtue and holiness. The principal cause of juvenile delinquency is unsatisfactory home life. Unsatisfactory home life results largely from adult delinquency. Adult delinquency is weakening the moral fiber of the Nation. More crimes are committed by people over fifty years of age than by any other age group; the next highest is among those over thirty-five.

Since our homes are now placed in jeopardy, how can we strengthen them and resist these evils? Whose influence is greatest in the home? We recognize, without doubt, the place of husband and father, but so often those husbands and fathers, themselves, do not recognize their responsibility and abandon it in favor of business or other pursuits. The preservation of the home is left chiefly to the wife and mother. In a large part the home is what the mother makes it. Do our women have the personal courage, the valor, the strength of mind to meet this present situation?

Are you, the women, willing to be the protectors of our homes and provide the stabilizing qualities our people need in this day of instabil-

8