[Vol50 | July | Magazine Page 528 | PDF Page 548]
[Title: Evelyn Davis and Bernice MacLeod Hobbies]

--- PAGE 527 (PDF page 547) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Sydney Stake (Australia), Parramatta Ward Christmas Party
December 12, 1962

Front row, seated, left to right: Helen Grant, Sydney Stake visiting teacher message leader; Lyn Carter, Secretary-Treasurer, Sydney Stake Relief Society; Myrtle Stubbs, First Counselor, Sydney Stake Relief Society; Ethel Parton, President, Sydney Stake Relief Society; Margaret Gray, President, Parramatta Ward Relief Society; Elder Ken Hale, Bishop, Parramatta Ward; Bishop Ken Hale; Hazel Brown, Second Counselor, Parramatta Ward Relief Society; Elsie F. Parton, stake theology class leader.

Back row, standing, left to right: Helen Harker, ward literature class leader; Kathleen Page; Anne Kirk; Anne Orro, ward organist; Anne Jones; Hilda Woods, work meeting leader, Parramatta Ward Relief Society; Shirley Sainsbury; Beryl Smith, ward visiting teacher message leader; Marion Verey; Jean Hale, ward social science class leader; Evelyn Redfearn; Ivy Willson; Lucy Bennett; Shirley Coltzau; Ann Campbell, ward theology class leader; Eunice Metcalf, Lillian Cook.

Sister Ethel Parton reports: "The Parramatta Ward of Sydney Stake sponsored a most enjoyable and unusual Christmas party. The majority in attendance were inactive and nonmembers of the Relief Society, and of the Church, so this occasion represented Relief Society in action for these women. The theology class leader portrayed the year's lessons in word pictures and visual aids, leaving her testimony to the strengthening of faith through this course of study. The literature class leader spoke of the benefits of literature and a study of the works of great authors in broadening the mind and bringing a greater international sympathy and understanding among peoples. Colored slides and an interesting commentary by the social science class leader created interest and enthusiasm. This study showed that all people are faced with some of the same problems and difficulties, with the same source of solution available — reliance on God. The work meeting leader told of the culture and niceties which may be gleaned from the lessons presented at these meetings. A mannequin parade followed, where many well-made and smartly styled frocks for different occasions were displayed, including the popular mother-and-daughter frocks. These frocks were made by the sisters who were taught, step by step, at Relief Society the art of frock styling and assembling. Finally, the over-all picture and supreme aim of Relief Society — compassionate service was presented.

"A delicious lunch was served in the sociable and friendly manner of this group."

530

--- PAGE 528 (PDF page 548) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Grand Junction Stake (Colorado) Relief Society Board Conducts Relief Society Fair and Other Outstanding Activities

Front row, left to right: Josephine Prinster, President; LaNor Rowe, Magazine representative; Doris Gidney, visiting teacher message leader; Lucille Pace, theology class leader; Viona Pace, organist.

Back row, left to right: Sue John, work meeting leader; Melba Larsen, Secretary-Treasurer; Beulah Whicker, First Counselor; Betty Christensen, Second Counselor; Mary Rogers, social science class leader.

Sister Prinster reports: "Before Christmas we held our first Relief Society stake fair. It by far surpassed our highest hopes in beauty, participation, and attendance by both members and nonmembers. . . . The planning began immediately after our stake convention in May (1962). At this time a tentative date was set, and the categories for different departments were specified. During the summer many committee meetings were held to set up chairmen over the departments and to assign special projects of beautiful and unusual articles to be made for display.

"In October, lists of articles that might be shown were passed out to every woman in the stake. These were to be returned by the first of November, so that department chairmen would have an idea of how many articles could be expected in each category.

"November found many a home slightly neglected, as ward and stake women intensified and coordinated their efforts to bring the fair to a successful conclusion. Two hundred invitations were mailed to Church, cultural and social groups, and individuals. Relief Society members were urged to contact friends and issue personal invitations. . . .

"Our new cultural hall was truly beautiful. Over 550 members and guests flocked in. They were delighted and amazed at our outstanding collection of handmade articles. The walls were hung with quilts of many designs and colors, forming a beautiful backdrop for the rest of the displays. Some of our most outstanding departments were: Christmas displays, with fireplace, toys, and decorations; clothing department, with clothing for the bride, bridesmaids, and flower girls, also a silk and wool afternoon dress, with shoes covered to match; the antiques and heirlooms department drew special interest, with kettles, dishes, books, and clothing of our pioneer ancestors. The mammoth stage was devoted entirely to a picture gallery, where everything from oil paintings, copper tooling, and driftwood pictures could be seen. . . . Fancywork of

531

--- PAGE 529 (PDF page 549) ---
JULY 1963

all descriptions was brought in by the armload. Another attraction was the centerpiece made of dried weeds and flowers. The knitting corner drew many admiring glances, with its knitted sweaters, coats, hats, afghans, etc. There was one table piled high with pillows of all descriptions. Five beds were brought in and placed in an alcove. These were covered with beautiful crocheted bedspreads over lovely satin quilts and pillows. On the floor were laid hooked, crocheted, and braided rugs. In a corner was the baby department, with adorable quilts and clothing displayed. The tile and tin work made by the sisters drew many compliments. The booth of home-cooked and canned foods was a big attraction. One of the most clever displays was a driftwood tree adorned with bags and jewelry made by the sisters.

"We also included demonstrations of cake decorating, zipper and sleeve sets, making collars, quilting, and Magazine binding. Each guest was given a jar of jam or jelly, with a label on it which read: 'Compliments of the Relief Society.' Piles of Relief Society Magazines fairly melted away, as the guests were invited to 'take one.'

"Our aim was to show the public our good works, so that they could have a desire to know more about us."

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Mount Ogden Stake (Utah), Fifty-third Ward Relief Society Bazaar
November 1962

Left to right: Mildred S. Rose, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; Eva Lynch, President, Fifty-third Ward Relief Society; Ruth Pullum, ward work meeting leader; Helen Cook, Education Counselor, Fifty-third Ward Relief Society; Elaine Ward, Work Director Counselor, Fifty-third Ward.

Sister Rose reports: "The sisters of the Fifty-third Ward have made attractive booths for displaying bazaar items. Their bazars are outstanding because of this lovely background. There are ten booths altogether, so designed that they are easily assembled. To repay the costs of this project, the booths are rented to other wards and civic organizations."

532

--- PAGE 530 (PDF page 550) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Bountiful Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, January 27, 1963

Front row, seated, left to right: Thelma W. Barlow, chorister; Mildred B. Eyring, member, General Board of Relief Society; Ivy W. Richins, President; JoAnn E. Curtis; Elaine S. Holbrook, organist; Alta Miller, member, General Board of the Primary Association.

Sister Richins reports: "The stake Singing Mothers have presented music at stake quarterly conferences for the past five years. We appreciate the effort these sisters put forth in preparation for these assignments and for the capable leadership of our chorister and organist, Elaine S. Smedley. This performance was outstanding.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Taylor Stake (Canada) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Conference January 28, 1963

Seated at the right on the front row: Phoebe H. Norton, President, Taylor Stake Relief Society; at Sister Norton's right: Inez Gibb, chorister; seated at the right in the second row: Emma Dahl, organist.

Sister Norton reports: This group was organized in 1956. Since then they have had the honor of presenting music for stake quarterly conference each year. They also sing at Relief Society conferences, visiting teacher conventions, and stake socials. On January 28, 1963, this group presented music for the afternoon session of the stake quarterly conference, when Sister Belva Barlow of the General Board of Relief Society was in attendance."

533