[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 64 | PDF Page 67]
[Title: Visiting Teacher Messages — "It Is Not Meet That I Should Command"]

--- PAGE 63 (PDF page 66) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

2. Watch that garbage can. Use resources wisely.
4. Add many dollars to your income through thrifty home management.

The Family Values Test in the first discussion started out with checking the family value of security. Keeping out of debt, wise use of resources, a nest egg for a rainy day, and a high credit and character rating are listed as essential for realizing this value. The trap of deficit spending is keeping a great many families from knowing the meaning of security under these terms. Deficit spenders don't have to keep a budget; their money is spent automatically through unvarying monthly payments.

Through motivation research, the business world has learned ways to help the family get rid of the rest of the paycheck in a small wholloping pattern. We are urged to take two vacations a year, to buy a second car, to sign for a package mortgage on all the known gadgets. Pay after you get is the mode, and the paycheck is spent before it is earned.

The optimism of some newly married couples is astounding. They assume there will be a continually expanding economy and that future prosperity will retroactively pay for today, and there is no sense in self-denial. If a dealer reports that financing can be arranged through a local bank, they relax their guard completely and debt starts on a path which often becomes the perpetual family street. Deficit spending operates largely to ill people to insensitivity and more debt. Thrift, initiative, challenge, and struggle are words that will gradual-

ly become obsolete if this trend continues.

Revolving credit is deficit spending carried to its ultimate conclusion. It is allowed by retailers to people who do not rate a charge account. A family might be given a $200 credit limit which must be paid off in regular installments with a 1 to 1½ per cent monthly interest charge on the unpaid balance. Once the family gets into this trap, they seldom get out, for they always like to be bought up to the limit. The family is paying annually a twelve to eighteen per cent interest charge for this convenience.

Some homemakers throw money out of the back door by way of the garbage can faster than it comes in the front door. Through careful management, use of leftovers, and perhaps producing some food, it would be possible to save money that could help the family budget.

A Ph.D. study was made by Marie Geraldine Gage at Cornell University in 1960. She found that unpaid-for services that replace bought goods and hired help can add many dollars to the family's real income. How do you replace bought goods for services? The one big answer is work — with everyone in the family contributing his share. If you don't have money to buy:

A washing machine, you use a plunger, or a washboard and elbow grease;
T-bone steaks, you use cheaper sources of protein and more time and effort;
Tickets to the World Fair, make your own fun in the back yard;
A new dress, make something new from something old;
New cupboards for the kitchen, use some packing boxes, a saw, a hammer and nails.

65

--- PAGE 64 (PDF page 67) ---
JANUARY 1963

The list could be endless, but to summarize:

The homemaker who knows the meaning of thrift, who knows how to budget money and keep expenditures within the income, and who knows how to save here and save there, can add many dollars to the family's resources, and, at the same time, she can teach her family how to keep out of the deficit-spending trap.

The Latter-day Saint family believes in the old-fashioned virtue of thrift, in making a budget on their own terms, planning the use of resources, keeping out of debt, except for such major expenditures as a home or education, and, in having a nest egg for a rainy day. They are more interested in giving than in getting; they pay their tithes and offerings before thinking of their own material wants. They give their services to the Church and community and send their children to schools and on missions. Through the years, they find themselves on prosperity street, instead of on mortgage row.

Questions for Discussion

1. Give concrete examples of ways in which homemakers have been able to add dollars to the family income through care of clothing, the home, and its furnishings.

2. How can we get some production back into the home, not only for saving money, but for personal development? For example: home food production and preservation, clothing construction, and furniture making.

Attention Work Meeting Discussion Leaders

NOTE ON ERROR IN DISCUSSION 5 (for February 1963) — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (part 1), published in November 1962 issue, page 854.

Correct measurements for making furniture polish: ⅛ boiled linseed oil and ⅞ turpentine.

Morning Prayer

Eva Willes Wangsgaard

There's something special in each new morning:
A child's quick laughter, a letter,
A whiff of fragrance, a chirp of warning,
An eye's gay sparkle, or better.

There's something especially for my learning
Which makes me richer for being.
So one brief prayer I shape for day's turning:
"Oh, give me vision for seeing!"

66

--- PAGE 65 (PDF page 68) ---
LITERATURE • America's Literature

The New Birth of Freedom

Lesson 39 — Melville's Masterpiece — Moby-Dick

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes
Dryden Press, New York, pp. 512-537)

For Third Meeting, April 1963

Objective: To enjoy sharing Moby-Dick, either with the first reader or with the devotee.

Note: As no study of America's literature would be complete without a consideration of Herman Melville, no study of Melville, the man and literary artist, would be complete without taking into account his masterpiece, Moby-Dick.

As the book Moby-Dick may not be available to all class leaders, this lesson is so planned that it may be presented with simple readings. Those who are able to read the book in its entirety will find it a rewarding experience.

DURING the nineteenth century, literary America expressed its fervor for greatness through its Tennyson and Browning societies; today its devout lovers of life through literature have organized themselves into Thoreau and Melville and Mark Twain societies. Although Twain is popular, Thoreau is deeper, but it is in Melville's Moby-Dick wherein the lone stilly deeps lie, down which those who so desire may plunge to sublime depths of vastness and loneliness and awe approached by no other American writer. Yet, for those just learning to swim its serene vastness, we would be terrified at the mere suggestion of ducking their heads beneath the apparent peace of its azure surface even for an instant, staying on the surface yields immediate delight in humor, excitement, mood, and exotic pleasure. It is with Melville as with Shakespeare — nobody loses. All who come to them will find some hunger satisfied, some image or character sharpened, some horizon pushed back and lowered.

In his cynical and unsuccessful novel, The Confidence Man, Melville commented that "It is with fiction as with religion: it should present another world, and yet one to which we feel the tie." In varying degrees we may possess the world which Melville, in Moby-Dick, created for all who may choose to enter it. Though we may feel tied to it so strongly that it seems impossible to break away from its spell, yet that world is strictly Melville's alone, created by his genius in his quest to know the "unknowable."

67

--- PAGE 66 (PDF page 69) ---
JANUARY 1963

Sources of Moby-Dick
In 1820, the year following Melville's birth, the whaling ship Essex of Nantucket, Massachusetts, with George Pollard, Jr., as captain and Owen Chase as first mate, was rammed and sunk by a spermaceti whale just south of the equator, not far from Tahiti.

Fearing cannibals in the unknown Pacific islands, the crew put to sea in three whaleboats for South America some two thousand miles away. During their three months at sea one boat was lost, the crews of the boats led by Pollard and Chase survived after extreme hardship and near starvation. In 1841, while sailing in the same area aboard the whaling vessel the Acushnet, young Melville met Owen Chase, then captain of another whaler, and from his son learned the fated Essex story. About the time he wrote Moby-Dick, Melville made his sole visit to Nantucket where he laid eyes on Captain Pollard, now a night-watchman who had been to sea but once since his rescue. Wrote Melville:

To the islanders he was a nobody — to me, the most impressive man, tho' wholly unassuming, even humble, that I ever encountered.

In addition, Melville knew the short story "Mocha-Dick, or the White Whale" which was published during his youth. Still, no more startling proof of genius exists than to compare Moby-Dick with these so-called sources. The true source is Melville ("Art is not nature") nor is Melville's masterpiece only a mirror reflecting the reality of whaling lore and life.

The novel Moby-Dick may be divided into three parts: (1) a long and rather matter-of-fact introduction in which the youth, Ishmael, is forewarned that the whaling voyage on the Pequod will be no ordinary one; (2) the major portion of the book which is a pursuit of the white whale, Moby-Dick, through months of wandering and which includes details of the whaling industry; (3) the final three chapters of exciting conflict, resulting in a battle with the whale and the loss of the ship. The young outcast, Ishmael, alone survives the disaster and tells the story.

Plot of Moby-Dick
Feeling forlorn and completely the outcast, young Ishmael goes to New Bedford, Massachusetts, to ship aboard a whaling vessel bound for the Pacific. At the overcrowded Spouter Inn, the mischievous innkeeper lodges him with Queequeg, a dark-skinned pagan from the South Seas, who shaves with his harpoon blade and eats almost raw steak for breakfast. Once their mutual fears are vanquished, they become inseparable friends. At Nantucket Harbor they are signed up as crew members of the Pequod. Before they go aboard they are warned by a mysterious eccentric named Elijah to beware of their still unseen captain, Ahab, and of the fanatic savage crew he has smuggled aboard.

On Christmas day, their captain still locked in his cabin, the Pequod "blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic, and we settle down to shipboard routine." First mate is Starbuck, cool, moral, conscientious, and the only man aboard ship

68