[Vol50 | July | Magazine Page 545 | PDF Page 565]
[Title: Literature — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience]

--- PAGE 544 (PDF page 564) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Abroad. While the ship was anchored in the bay of Smyrna, Twain saw the miniature portrait of Olivia Langdon in the locket of her brother, and on the spot told him she was the woman whom he would love forever and whom he would marry. In 1870 the incredible happened when he married Olivia, the lovely semi-invalid whom he had courted ardently for eighteen months. Olivia had refused him three times in three months. Like the married romances of the Brownings and the Hawthornes, the Twain relationship became one of the true great love stories. Twain was thirty-five, she ten years his junior. Their educational, cultural, financial, and religious backgrounds were diametrical opposites, yet he loved her always and she returned his love. The $120,000 home Twain built for his family in Hartford, Connecticut, was the center of their mutual existence, as were their four children — while they lived. The first child, Langdon Clemens, was almost two when having contracted pneumonia, he died. Of his three daughters, his favorite, sensitive, serious, teasing Susie died of spinal meningitis when she was single and twenty-four. For seven lonely years after his beloved Olivia's death in 1904, his nearest companion was his daughter, Jean, an epileptic who died in 1909. Only his Clara, married to Ossip Gabrielowitsch, an eminent European musician, survived him.

It was for his family and for his close friends that Twain was always so tenderly concerned. Each night he read to "Livy" and the daughters what he had written during the day,

they being his supreme critic. Deliberately he inserted occasional mild profanities in his sentences, that Livy might cross them out, thus continuing her reformation of her beloved ruffian. In 1895, when he was sixty years old, and over $120,000 in debt, a sum he was not legally but morally obligated to pay, he took Olivia with him despite her frail health as he circled the globe giving lectures to pay off this large obligation. This he accomplished in less than two years' time.

The closeness of their souls is apparent in the following letter Twain wrote "Livy" on her fortieth birthday, his fiftieth approaching, and fifteen years of marriage behind them:

We have reached another milestone, my darling, & a very very remote one from the place whence we started; but we look back over a pleasant landscape—valleys that are still green, plains that still bear flowers, hills that still sleep in the soft light of that far morning of blessed memory. And here we have company on the journey—ah, such precious company, such inspiring, such lovely & gracious company! & how they lighten the march! Our faces are toward the sunset, now, but these are with us, to hold our hands, & stay our feet, & while they abide, & our old love grows & never diminishes, our march shall still be through flowers & green fields, & the evening light as pleasant as soft morning glow yonder behind (The Love Letters of Mark Twain. Harper & Row, 1949, page 246. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

After Olivia's death no one again called him "Youth," as she had done throughout all their married years, and with justice. The innocent, eternal boy was now forever homeless, and though after her death he built Stormfield, a great

547

--- PAGE 545 (PDF page 565) ---
JULY 1963

mansion, he was never to be at home again. The inscription he had engraved on her tombstone tells much:

Warm summer sun
Shine kindly here

TWAIN'S HUMOR

Basically Twain was a western Innocent, an enthusiastic idealist brimming with the vital vigor of his moral convictions, always willing to defend them and to oppose greed, officious hypocrisy, and the domination and exploitation of one human being or class by another. Knowing that, effectively used, laughter was the weapon which an opponent found most difficult to counter or vanquish, Twain used humor to point up the human weaknesses which plague us all, Twain included, often hoping that through his sharp satire, individual or social foibles might be revealed for what they were, and corrected or modified. Twain was so acutely aware of the gap between the way things should be and the way they were that for him, the only bearable pathway to endurance and sanity lay through humor.

In the following Twainian antic, note how the humor originates in the difference between how things appear and how they really are, as he contrasts his father-in-law's wealth and generosity with his own gratitude but relative poverty.

After dispelling many apprehensions about the stability of this fieryheaded, flashy-dressing "Wild Humorist of the Pacific Slope," who had brashly aspired to be his son-in-law, Jervis Langdon, a wealthy coal dealer of Elmira, New York, finally offered himself as Twain's friend

and character reference and told him to "take the girl." As a wedding present he presented the couple with the deed to a lovely home he had bought them, a complete surprise to Sam Clemens, but not to his wife. The couple were taken to the home, told it was theirs, then everyone waited for Sam's reaction. He was much moved, but finally, with tears in his eyes and choking in his voice, he got it out, two or three words at a time:

Mr. Langdon, whenever you are in Buffalo, even if it's twice a year, come right up here, and bring your bag with you. You may stay overnight if you want to, and it shan't cost you a cent (Twitch-ell, J. H. "Mark Twain," Harper's, XCII, May 1896, page 821).

In his lectures as in his writings, Twain is at his best only when his words are spoken. His lightest genius is sharpest in his folk-tale, story-telling casualness. As a poor substitute for a live Twain lecture, some of his pithy statements from Pudd'nhead Wilson must be permitted to exemplify the dry, often sharp wit which reveals his moral sensitivities as he discerns humanity's failings everywhere about him:

1. It is often the case that the man who can't tell a lie thinks he is the best judge of one.

2. The holy passion of Friendship is of so sweet and steady and loyal and enduring a nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if not asked to lend money.

3. Nothing so needs reforming as other people's habits.

4. He is useless on top of the ground; he ought to be under it, inspiring the cabbages.

5. Man is the Only Animal that blushes. Or needs to.

6. Few of us can stand prosperity. Another man's, I mean.

548

--- PAGE 546 (PDF page 566) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

7. True irreverence is disrespect for another man's god.
8. Every one is a moon and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody.
9. The very ink with which all history is written is merely fluid prejudice.
10. Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone you may still exist but you have ceased to live (The Portable Mark Twain, Viking Press, 1946, pages 558-567, passim. Reprinted by permission of Harper and Row, Publishers.)

Twain is the most autobiographical of great American writers; in the same simple, straightforward manner which was ever the central essence of both his manner and his character, he wrote his life and beliefs into his best works.

MARK THE DOUBLE TWAIN

Thus Theodore Dreiser defined him, and not without a sufficient fact that has increased with publication of more of Twain's misanthropic writings which he could not bear to have appear during Olivia's lifetime or his own. On one hand Twain was the tenderest of men. When he and Jean went to the unoccupied family mansion for a weekend the weather was so chilly that Twain went directly to the fireplace to kindle a fire, but when he there heard bird chirpings, and realized a bird had built its nest in the unused chimney, he and Jean gladly froze rather than incommode the baby swallows before they could fly. On the other hand, when through the tumultuous decades of his later life he learned of man's hard indifference, then intentional cruelty, toward his fellows, Twain's furious temper and acid satires in that latest phase of his life consumed his greatness, both as man and as literary force. The apparent evils arising from slavery during the Reconstruction period disturbed this overly sensitive idealist. The wildfire economic greed and corrupt governmental practices which encouraged them he attacked in The Gilded Age (1873). His contempt of aristocratic privilege, entrenched superstition, and economic exploitation masquerading as religion, he attacked in A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (1889). These contain in less powerful form the major issues of his greatest work, Huckleberry Finn (1884). "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg" (1899) is a bitter attack on a greedy, hypocritical community unjustly smug in its self-righteousness. "Field's Visit to Heaven," What is Man?, The Mysterious Stranger and Letters from Earth continue his attack on mankind as a mean, nasty, vindictive race.

These titles reveal the later "double" Twain as a lonely, embittered man in a mechanical, selfish universe of man's own making. But to the end he struggled with his affirming, believing self in conflict with his own darker side, still believing in Tom, Dick, and Harry while damning the human race. Out of this lifelong conflict came The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, one of our greatest revelations of American conscience, which will be the subject of our next lesson. It is justly classed with Innocents Abroad, Roughing It, Old Times on the Mississippi, and The Adventures of Tom Sawyer as one of his "sunny books," which in part it is. Viewed in terms of its great moral core, and in its definition of who man is (rather than who he should be) Huck

549

--- PAGE 547 (PDF page 567) ---
JULY 1963

Finn fairly predicts "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg," perhaps the best-known representation of his later works. (See text, pp. 629-651).

THE MAN THAT CORRUPTED HADLEYBURG

This long short story published some ten years before Twain's death in 1910, exemplifies the power Twain could command once he found a style and a theme which so congenially complement each other. First of all, to watch the ingenious plot draw ever more tightly together the conflicts within Twain's characters reminds us how skilled he was at telling a story. Our interest never sags; always Twain has us in suspense, eager to know what comes next. Secondly, the "heard" qualities of his style have never been written down with greater effectiveness. How intimately Twain knew crowd psychology, and with what impish delight he caught the common people's response to public exposure of self-righteousness and dishonesty and greed. The crowd's "Go tell it to the Marines!" and "oh, saw my leg off!" when asked to believe the incredible; its "Hip, hip, hooray!" and group chant and Mikado travesty, all performed in spontaneous gusto, all reveal the grim irony which humor can achieve when manipulated by a master humorist.

Few moral tracts have ever succeeded in making smugness, pretense, self-righteousness, greed, and dishonesty more uncomfortable than does Twain's humorous indignation against such universal human failings as concentrated by the artistry of this story. The underlying theme is that "the weakest of all weak things is a virtue which has not been tested in the fire." Twain invented the community of Hadleyburg, which deserved the jealousy of neighboring communities because, from the cradle, its inhabitants had been taught the principles of honesty.

Within its borders honesty was publically praised so solemnly and frequently that no dishonesty existed within its borders, and all its citizens knew it. But their fatal error was to keep themselves and their children honest by never permitting themselves to be tempted. A stranger passing through the town is somehow deeply injured and vows revenge, not just on an individual but on the entire community. He "leads them into temptation" by making it possible for the leading families of the community to anticipate receiving vast wealth — sudden wealth, unearned, and undeserved — if only they will each publicly proclaim a lie which they naively believe can never become public knowledge. But the pretense motivated by greed is exposed to the derisive laughter of the less ostentatious, less fortunate citizens of Hadleyburg in eighteen of the nineteen "first" families. Through a repaid kindness, ironically one most undeserved, the poor bank clerk Richards and his wife are spared the exposure and public humiliation the others receive. But their fate is worse. Having been mistakenly honored as the only honest citizens of Hadleyburg, they cannot face their own consciences, and their own moral guilt finally destroys them, both in their own eyes and in those of their

550