[Vol50 | June | Magazine Page 435 | PDF Page 455]
[Title: Norway — A Road By the Sea]

--- PAGE 434 (PDF page 454) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Ancient Village Near Head of Sognefjord                                Photo by author

Frequent farmsteads enlivened the narrow strip between ocean and mountain slope wherever the rocks had decayed sufficiently to make the ground arable. Yet, in those northern waters, there were still great stretches of unoccupied coastline. Occasionally, like a chain of beads, the villages strung along the coast, anywhere from two to a dozen farmsteads being grouped as a single settlement. In July, in suddenly radiant life like lovely jewels, fields of brilliant yellow flowers embroidered the narrow shoreline. In places villages gave way to cities, some being built on clustering islands, making a waterway of streets. Handsome bridges crossed some of these waterways.

Parents, children, and infants in prams queued up at the gangplank at almost all the stations where the coastal steamer docked. In summer, people nested two hundred miles from an hour's visit in another city; young folk embark on honeymoons, friends crowd the quay to greet passing relatives. The ships carry local passengers by the hundreds, cargo by the bale, and a few tourists on each journey.

Always, it seemed, wherever our ship docked, the immediate waterfront would give way to steeply tiered homes, then to enormously high mountains, barren except for the green of the moss and the low shrubs which crowded the granite and the snow.

In this landscape it might be reasonable to suppose that the heart of man would bear a somber streak; but there is evident a tender and a happy vein. Only a well-balanced people could face life in such a climate and on such a land. Surviving from a rich sea and a poor, meager soil, strong in their ancient traditions, people of such a race do not easily give up their established religion.

436

--- PAGE 435 (PDF page 455) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH: Village Church, Ulvig - Photo by author]

ALL this I knew, and yet I was aware of the Norwegian contribution of sturdy and faithful saints who gathered to the Rocky Mountains of America in the early days of the Church. I was aware also of those present saints in Norway who have built up and maintain thriving branches in this rugged land.

For many years (1851-1905), Norway formed a part of the Scandinavian Mission. Then the Danish-Norwegian Mission was organized. In 1920 the Norwegian Mission was created. So the gospel net was spread in this magnificent northern land. Elder Erastus Snow, a member of the Council of the Twelve, introduced the gospel into the Scandinavian countries in 1850. One of the first converts was Hans F. Petersen of Aalborg in Northern Denmark. In September 1851, Elder Petersen was requested by Elder Snow to journey to Norway and begin missionary work in the land of the steep mountains and the great fjords. Elder Petersen took passage on a sailing vessel bound from Denmark to Østerissør, a city on the Oslo Fjord in Norway. However, Elder Petersen had neglected to obtain a passport, and so he returned to Denmark. The captain of the ship which carried Elder Petersen on this voyage to and from Norway was Svend Larsen, a devout Norwegian who became interested in the gospel through the efforts of Elder Petersen. He was baptized on September 23, 1851, and became "the first fruit of the gospel in Norway."

In October of 1851, Elder Petersen returned to Norway and in the following November two converts were baptized. From this small beginning, the members of the Church increased, and by July 16, 1852, the first branch in Norway was organized in the city of Østerissør, with John Olsen as presiding elder. This branch was composed of eighteen members. In the month of August, a small vessel "The Lion of Zion" was purchased, and this good ship made many journeys along the coast of

437

--- PAGE 436 (PDF page 456) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Hardangerfjord                                                                                Photo by author

Norway, in and out of the precipitous fjords, and among the rock-bound islands. Back and forth between Denmark and Norway, the small ship sailed and many faithful Scandinavians heard "the gospel's joyful sound." New branches were organized in Frederikstad and Brevig, and Elder John A. Ahmansen became President of the Norwegian area of the Scandinavian Mission. So the gospel was taken to Norway, and the saints rejoiced and shared the glad tidings with their neighbors.

IN 1870 a group of missionaries arrived in Trondheim, the first capital of Norway, a magnificent city located on a deeply sculptured fjord which cuts more than half way through Norway at this point of the narrowing of the land. At this time, on the island of Frøya, the uttermost island beyond Trondheim towards the Atlantic, lived an "eager, highly intelligent fishermaiden," Anna Karine Gaarden, and her lovely sister Petroline — two Norwegian girls destined to find a later home in a western land "in the tops of the mountains."

As we traveled northward along this rugged and uplifted shore — northward beyond Trondheim, I thought of the story of the girlhood of Anna, how she watched the eider duck, followed by her fledglings, sailing the swells of the waves around the island of Frøya, and I, too, watched for the pattern of wings. The waterways were treacherous, with numerous submarine reefs. Few pilots, in Anna's time, could safely bring a ship to port. Anna and Petroline were the daughters of a sea captain, and their father had told them something of the world beyond the Norwegian coast. In 1870 Anna married a young schoolteacher, John Anders Widtsoe, from the Norwegian mainland, and in 1874 the young couple established a fine home in Namsös, a coastal city some eighty miles north of Trondheim.

Traveling past these villages and cities so dear to the hearts of the

438

--- PAGE 437 (PDF page 457) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH: Native Fruits, India - Photo by author]

and nutmeg. Place in slow oven for an hour. This is made with the canned fruit. This fruit bake is delicious with any roast, if one tablespoon of curry powder is used in place of the cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg.

Finger Cookies

The dessert is a favorite of Koreans. The finger cookies are made from the following recipe, but any favorite plain cookie will do.

1 c. shortening                1 tsp. salt
2 c. granulated sugar         2 tsp. baking powder
3 eggs                        1 tsp. almond extract
3½ to 4 c. flour

Cream the shortening and sugar together; add eggs and flavoring and beat until fluffy. Sift flour, measure, and add salt and baking powder. Add to the wet ingredients. Stir until a medium soft dough is formed. Chill for several hours. Roll very thin and cut into "finger cookies," approximately ¼ of an inch wide and 3 inches long. Place 1 inch apart on greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° for 8 to 10 minutes or until a light golden brown.

For serving, a bowl of hot honey, a bowl of finely chopped pinenuts, and a plate of the cookies is provided for each group of diners. All dip their cookies into the same dish of honey, then into the pinenuts, before each bite.

For the main dish — a mound of rice — large or small according to one's appetite, is placed on the plate. Over this is spooned the hot curried chicken. On top are heaped the boys, a generous spoonful to each.

On the buffet, place the chafing dish of rice first, then the curried chicken (also in something to keep it hot), then the row of boys. Or the boys may be placed in a circle around the two main dishes.

It is comparatively easy to pick up Indian decorations — many small items of Indian brass are for sale in shops everywhere. Pictures cut from advertisements in Travel magazines, toy elephants or camels, or a miniature Taj Mahal made of cardboard boxes and empty spools and covered with a sugar icing are all suitable.

443