[Vol50 | October | Magazine Page 785 | PDF Page 816]
[Title: Literature]

--- PAGE 784 (PDF page 815) ---
OCTOBER 1963

"DEAN" HOWELLS

Though it might seem foolish to relinquish so influential a position as editor of the Atlantic, actually Howells was amply justified. While he had done his job most commendably, he had become frightfully tired of the tasks of editing. Accomplishments of the next decade proved the wisdom of his decision. Though during his sixty-odd years of productivity more than one hundred books were to flow from his pen, he had yet to discover his true powers as a novelist; likewise, the formulation of his critical principles had not even begun. As a literary term, the word Realism was unknown. Within the next decade all his best novels were published: A Modern Instance (1882), The Rise of Silas Lapham (1885), Indian Summer (1886) and A Hazard of New Fortunes (1890). The next year his Criticism and Fiction established Howells as the advocate of a new set of critical values for fiction, and the most prominent critic in the country. It was to William Dean Howells that all the struggling young writers of the new Realism turned for critical direction, moral support and approval, and a congenial sponsor who could get their works published.

But in one sense Howells' greatest accomplishment (and living proof of his impartial versatility) was his ability to maintain intimate and lifelong friendships with such literary opposites as Henry James and Mark Twain. While both were Realists, how completely they differed, in subject, style, and personality. Yet both were eager to acknowledge Howells as a major influence in their lives and work.

Another proof of his great influence was his cosmopolitan literary awareness. It was Howells who first introduced to his countrymen the writings of great Continental authors. He freely acknowledged Tolstoy as the greatest single literary influence of his life as mirrored in his later novels, which exhibit a sharpened social and economic consciousness and awareness of injustices in the strike-torn 1890's.

THE EMERGING REALIST

The mature Howells became the leading advocate of Realism because, as he observed his own changing values and those of the world around him, he came to believe that the Romantic literary form and vision now intruded as an artificial pretense. Early in his career he had promised himself always to "inquire into the facts with unsparing fearlessness"; this, he felt, could be achieved if the sentimentality and over-concern for the ancient, the unusual, and the picturesque were replaced by "the romance of the real and the thrill and the charm of the common."

When first he attempted writing, Howells was convinced that his new, rough homeland offered no fit subject for literary treatment, and he was embarrassed by such a lack. However, as he lived longer and observed life about him, he saw in his fellow Americans innocence, yes, but also a strength, a moral courage, a goodness of life and action which had their origins in the common, everyday events which once he had felt were the very defects of American life and art!

786

--- PAGE 785 (PDF page 816) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

THE RISE OF SILAS LAPHAM

Though Howells himself felt Indian Summer to be his best novel (and it might well be subtler and more firmly constructed), over the decades, The Rise of Silas Lapham has been the general favorite. (See text.) It fairly represents Howells and the Realistic school of writing. Having made a fortune in his rural paint mine, Silas brings his family to Boston where he and his wife Persis hope to become part of "high society." Their daughter Penelope wins the love of Tom Corey, son of one of the best families, but when the rugged Silas is invited to a formal dinner and becomes so ill at ease amid the strange, unfriendly atmosphere that he drinks and boasts himself into discredit in the eyes of all present, the match seems doomed. Silas builds a house in the best neighborhood, but it costs more than he had anticipated. When it burns, without being insured, and when he loses heavily in a speculative venture, rather than compromise his honest principles, the "fall" seems complete and the family returns to Vermont. In fact, his sterling qualities have triumphed over apparent disaster. Penelope finally wins Tom Corey, and the novel ends happily.

The novel is so plain that it becomes real, not by attempting to exhibit a "slice of life," but by revealing the character of a typical American businessman. In contrast to the novels of Jack London, Frank Norris, and Theodore Dreiser, which depict the businessman as a greedy, all-powerful tycoon, Howells depicts his central character as successful, and proud of it, but more nearly an actual person, neither excessively glamorized nor belittled.

The first chapter consists of an interview in Silas' office between the sole proprietor of the paint firm and Bartley Hubbard, newspaperman. A short excerpt will give the rhythm and tone and characterization which are representative. Silas is explaining why he fought in the Civil War, which had ended his paint business.

... I was about heart-broken ... but m'wife she looked at it another way. "I guess it's a providence," says she. "Silas, I guess you've got a country that's worth fightin' for. Any rate, you better go out and give it a chance." Well, sir, I went. I knew she meant business. It might kill her to have me go, but it would kill her surer if I stayed. She was one of that kind. I went. Her last words was, "I'll look after the paint, Si. ..." So I went. I got through; and you can call me Colonel, if you want to. Feel there!" Lapham took Bartley's thumb and forefinger and put them on a bunch in his leg, just above the knee. "Anything hard?"

"Ball?"

Lapham nodded. "Gettysburg. That's my thermometer. If it wa'n't for that, I shouldn't know enough to come in when it vains ..." (from HOWELLS, WILLIAM DEAN, The Rise of Silas Lapham, Houghton Mifflin Company, 1912. Reprinted by permission of the publisher. See text, pp. 681-682.)

The same straightforward lack of pretense is to be found in the conversation between Silas and his wife after the "Hill Ladies" have called at the Lapham residence, excusing their lateness because their coachman had never before been in their neighborhood. This hint left a barb which only grew larger in the minds of both mother and daughter. When she explains the cut to Silas, he then discloses to her that secretly

787

--- PAGE 817 --- ERROR: Error code: 400 - {'type': 'error', 'error': {'type': 'invalid_request_error', 'message': 'Output blocked by content filtering policy'}, 'request_id': 'req_011CYrf1Q6W1rm54U561BPhC'}

--- PAGE 787 (PDF page 818) ---
SOCIAL SCIENCE • Divine Law and Church Government

Church Government: Its Organization and Structure

Lesson 10 — Priesthood Quorums and Their Function

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

For Fourth Meeting, January 1964

Objective: To acquaint Relief Society members with the importance of quorum organization and the obligation of quorum membership.

BECAUSE the women of the Church can and do have great influence on their families, it is of the greatest importance that they understand the organization of the Priesthood quorums to which their husbands and sons belong. They must know the obligations which come with membership in a quorum, if they are to give adequate support and encouragement to the members of their families in meeting their responsibilities. The following quotation indicates the seriousness of these obligations.

Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence.

He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen (D&C 107:99-100).

Every ordinance, every step essential to exaltation and eternal life, is included in the power and authority of the Priesthood. It contains the complete formula for the abundant life. These things being true, it should follow that every intelligent person should be interested in and influenced by the operation of the Priesthood.

PRIESTHOOD QUORUMS, THEIR MEANING AND RELATIONSHIP

"The priesthood quorums [Melchizedek] are part of the revealed organization whereby adult brethren are trained and enabled to do their part in helping the Church to discharge its divine mission" (Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 21).

The quorum presents a most interesting social situation in regard to the loyalty of the quorum members. This loyalty can only be achieved by personal conviction as to the reality of God. There is no force that can command or demand this response. So far as human association is concerned, the quorum can be the most effective means of developing group solidarity that human beings can experience. It is built on usefulness to fellow men, based on revealed truth and motivated by love.

1. Called by Authority to Act in Church Government. The responsibility for the operation of the government of the Church is in the

789