[Vol50 | September | Magazine Page 654 | PDF Page 681]
[Title: He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part IV]

--- PAGE 653 (PDF page 680) ---
HE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH

he retired to a grove a little distance from his father's house, and in fervent prayer besought the Lord to communicate with him and reveal the way of salvation. While thus engaged, a light brilliant and glorious appeared in the heavens, gradually descending towards him till he was enveloped in it and wrapped in celestial vision; when he beheld two glorious beings, similar in dress and appearance, who informed him that the religious sects had all departed from the ancient doctrine of the apostles, and that the gospel with its gifts and blessings should be made known to him at a future period. Many important things were manifested in this vision which the brevity of this work will not permit to notice.

"On the evening of the twenty-first of September 1823, having retired to rest, his mind became filled with anxious desires to receive the information which he had been previously promised. While engaged in prayer and striving to exercise faith, the room became filled with light far surpassing that of noonday, but in the midst thereof appeared an additional glory surrounding a personage whose countenance was as lightning, yet so full of goodness and innocence and of such a glorious appearance as to banish all apprehension. He announced himself as an angel of God, commissioned to inform him that the covenant with ancient Israel touching their posterity should soon be accomplished — that the great work preparatory to the second coming of Messiah should speedily commence, and the plenitude of the gospel be made known to all nations. He also in-

[PHOTOGRAPH]

PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW

formed him that the aborigines of America were a remnant of Israel who, when they first inhabited that land, enjoyed the ministry of inspired men; that records of the most important events in their history had been preserved from their first settlement down to the period of their national degeneracy; that these records had been concealed in the earth by one of their last Prophets, and a promise of the Lord given that they should be revealed in the last days.

"The following day the angel returned and instructed Mr. Smith to go to the place where the sacred records were deposited" (The Biography and Autobiography of Lorenzo Snow by his sister Eliza R. Snow, pp. 136-138).

655

--- PAGE 654 (PDF page 681) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of two women, one seated getting her hair done by another woman standing behind her with hair rollers]

Dorothea J. Neilson

The
Restyling

ANYONE who might have seen Hildy Carlson as she marched resolutely down Main Street that morning would have thought, now, there goes a woman with a purpose. And they would have been right about Hildy. They also would have thought her younger than the sixty years she was. In fact, this morning Hildy herself felt so new, she was almost reborn. She had a spring to her step, and she breathed in the fresh, clean air with new savor. She enjoyed the familiarity of Main Street even though she saw it now with greater clarity and observation than before.

Hildy slowed her step as she rounded the corner to the Elite Beauty Salon. She paused for a moment before the window and peered in at the neat row of hair dryers. It was still early and no one as yet sat under them. They reminded her of cocoons — a shell into which something unlovely withdrew only to emerge later much improved. Then she entered the shop and stepped up to the desk.

"Good morning. I'm Hildy Carlson. You have a nine o'clock appointment for me."

Looking at her appointment pad and up at Hildy, the receptionist smiled. "Yes, we do — it's a restyling job, isn't it?"

Hildy nodded in agreement and smiled back.

"Jane, your nine o'clock appointment is here," called the receptionist.

Hildy waited until Jane appeared and was pleased to find that she looked to be an agreeable young lady. She followed Jane to her booth and sat down in the chair that was held out for her in front of the vanity table.

"You wished to have your hair restyled, Mrs. Carlson. Is there any-

656

--- PAGE 655 (PDF page 682) ---
THE RESTYLING

thing particular you have in mind?"
"Well, not exactly," hesitated Hildy. "But I do want it arranged so that I'll be able to dress it myself." The firm determination was back again as soon as she had spoken. "You see, I'm somewhat troubled with arthritis in my shoulder and find it difficult to hold my arms up to set my hair. A neighbor has been doing it in pin curls for me for years, but I'd like to relieve her of this job, so if you could style it so I could. . . ."

While Hildy had been speaking, Jane had been studying her face and her hair, and now she said with certainty, "Here are lots of ladies in your predicament, Mrs. Carlson, and I know just how we can help you. You have lovely thick hair, and there is also a nice natural wave to it. I think we can cut and style it for you so that a few wave clips will be all you will need to set it with. I really believe you'll be quite pleased with the results. Does that sound all right?"

"That sounds just wonderful. I really do want to be able to fix it myself."

While the work was in progress, Hildy had time to reflect on the chain of circumstances that brought her to the beauty shop. It had begun years ago. She supposed it really began with George's illness. He was sick for so long before he died that she had lost most of her optimism and high spirits in those sad years. When her husband finally died, she felt as though she, too, was no longer alive, but the necessity of making a home for her two sons transcended the grief, and Hildy did what she had to do to keep the little family together. Uncle Leo was so good to help them and the Church had given a helping hand, too. When the boys were able they had worked hard, unselfish of their own desires. Their mother always came first. Hildy had been so proud of them — she still was! And so it went through the years, until the boys were now away from home — George, Jr. was married and in college, and Mike was in Europe with the army, but they still faithfully sent her money each month for her needs. Hildy busied herself around the house and worked in her garden. Many said it was the prettiest in the neighborhood because of her artful color arrangement in placing the plants and flowers, but Hildy wasn't happy.

LAST Saturday while she was at Fay Ellis's, as usual, getting her hair set, she had unburdened herself to Fay. Goodness knows, Fay had enough to think about with her five little ones and her husband gone so much of the time, but Hildy had to talk to someone. She had told Fay that she felt so left out, so useless and also rather hurt that George, Jr. and his Eddie didn't come to visit more often. She knew how busy he was with school and all, and Eddie working to help him through, but they really didn't live so many miles away.

Fay was thoughtful as she set the neat rows of pin curls in Hildy's hair. Then Fay's brow furrowed. "Hildy, do you mind if I ask you a question?"

Hildy felt a vague uneasiness. She knew how forthright Fay could be. "No, of course not."

"What do you talk about when

657

--- PAGE 656 (PDF page 683) ---
SEPTEMBER 1963

George and Edie are visiting?"
"Why . . . I . . . I don't know, nothing special."
"Do you tell them how your shoulders hurt after you've worked in the garden?" (Hildy's mouth began to open in surprise, but Fay went on), "and that your arthritis is acting up again, and that if only their father were still alive. . . ?"
Hildy's mouth opened and closed in surprise.
"Do you?" Fay really wanted to know.
"Why, yes, I guess I do . . . sometimes."
"Sometimes?" It was Fay again. "Well . . . but how did you . . . ?"
Fay broke in again, "Hildy, you and I have been neighbors for ten years. I guess I've heard the same thing quite often."
"Oh!" Hildy felt crushed.
"Now, don't go and feel hurt. I love you, you know, and really want you to be happy." Fay was now in her lecturing position, one hand on her hip, the other hand, holding the comb, was pointed directly at her, the comb like a great white extension of the pointed finger. Hildy was glad to know Fay loved her. It helped.
Fay went on, "Honestly, now, Hildy Carlson, you could do so much more with your life. Here you are only sixty" (Fay was young and she said sixty as though she thought that was still young, too) "and you act like you're an old, old lady! What do you do with your talents?"
"I don't have any talents," said Hildy quietly.
"Oh, bosh. Everybody does. They may be underdeveloped, but they are there. You have a good sense

of balance and color. How many times has Ferris Crowther tried to get you to go to that community art class with him?" (Hildy remained silent, as she knew Fay well enough not to interrupt her while she was getting her mind spoken.) "He's lonely just the way you are since his wife died, and he's such a fine man." (Hildy silently agreed to that point. Ferris was a very fine man.) "And, furthermore, what have you done to help yourself? There is Edie, working to put George, Jr. through college and to send you some money each month, and you let them!"

THIS time Hildy spoke up, "But, Fay, what could I do, at my age, and with no formal training?"
"You'd find loads of things to do once you got started on the possibilities, and you know what — I'll bet you'd feel lots better, too — being busy keeps your mind off of lots of things, including discomfort."

Apparently Fay was finished for the moment because she again began working on the pin curls. Hildy was glad she had the back of her head to Fay. She wouldn't want her to see the hurt in her eyes and the tears that wanted to come.

A painful silence followed before Fay broke it. "Hildy, you're not hurt, are you?"

Hildy tried to explain with conviction, "No . . . I'm just thinking, Fay."

When the hair dressing was finished, Fay had said, "Just a minute, Hildy, I want to get you something." She returned with a recent issue of a national magazine. "There are some very interesting things in this

658