[Vol50 | November | Magazine Page 853 | PDF Page 888]
[Title: Theology — The Bishopric; Parenthood]

--- PAGE 852 (PDF page 887) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

peace, comfort, and a sense of security. The world may not recognize the signs that announce the imminence of the Lord's second coming, but Latter-day Saints have reason to neither disbelieve nor fail to understand their importance.

In terms of missionary obligation President Heber J. Grant said:

The one supreme thing that devolves upon me, upon you and upon every Latter-day Saint is the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, in public and in private, and above all by proclaiming the gospel in our lives, by being absolutely honest in keeping the commandments of the Lord (Conference Report, October 1926, page 6).

THE OFFICE OF BISHOP

The first instruction given that bishops would be a part of the Church organization in this dispensation is found in Section 20:66-67, although these officers are mentioned as officiating in the Church during the time of the New Testament. (Phil. 1:1; Titus 1:7.)

Edward Partridge became the first bishop, his appointment being made at the time of the introduction of the law of consecration in 1831. (D & C 41:9; 57:7.) Other bishops and counselors in the bishopric, as well as agents of the Church such as Algernon S. Gilbert (Ibid., 53:4) were appointed as the need arose. At this early period Bishop Partridge presided in Missouri while Bishop Newel K. Whitney officiated in a similar capacity at Kirtland, Ohio. (Ibid., 72:8.)

As Paul said anciently, he who serves as bishop is in a good work. (I Tim. 3:1.) President George Albert Smith said this about such a call:

... There is no position in the Church that will bring a greater blessing to any man than the office of a bishop, if he will honor that office and be a real father to the flock over whom he is called to preside.

I have followed them and seen what their experiences were; they have a very great responsibility, and it takes a lot of their time. But I want to say to you that there is no bishop, nor has there been a bishop in the Church, who has given the time that the Lord expected him to give in looking after the flock and teaching his people and preparing them to do the work, that has not received one hundred percent of the blessings that he labored for, and they will extend to him throughout the ages of eternity.

He may not have had wealth, may not have had distinction. He may not have had the honor of presiding over clubs and things of that kind, but if he has done his duty as a bishop, he has gone hand in hand with the Father of us all, and everything that he has done to bless his kind is laid up as a treasure in heaven and nobody can take the blessing from him (Conference Report, October 1948, pp. 186-187).

BISHOPRIC APPOINTMENTS

The office of bishop and calls thereto are stated in Section 68 following the missionary call of the elders mentioned in verse 7. As the Church grew, additional workers were called to take care of the temporal concerns of the members and the Church. (Ibid., 68:14.) These brethren were to be worthy high priests and appointed by the First Presidency. (Ibid., verse 15.)

It is explained that a high priest has authority to officiate in all lesser offices of the Melchizedek Priesthood including that of bishop which holds the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:13-15.) Since the Aaronic Priesthood is an ap-

854

--- PAGE 853 (PDF page 888) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

pendage to the Melchizedek Priesthood, the elder or high priest may officiate in the offices of that Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:10.)

Thus a ward bishop presides over the Aaronic Priesthood of his ward by reason of his ordination and setting apart as the president of the Aaronic Priesthood, and, at the same time, he presides over the Melchizedek Priesthood members of his ward, but not the quorum, because he is a high priest.

LITERAL DESCENDANTS

From the time of Adam into Moses' period the Higher Priesthood functioned. In the days of Moses, however, Aaron and his sons were set apart as priests in the Aaronic Priesthood which was named for Aaron. This Priesthood was conferred upon Aaron and his descendants for all time. (D & C 107:13.)

We learn in Section 68 that the seed of Aaron have a legal right to the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood, provided the individual is the firstborn among the sons of Aaron and thus by birthright has the right of presidency. (Ibid., verses 16-17.) When no literal descendant can be found, and up to this time he has not been found, a high priest officiates as the Presiding Bishop of the Church. In the event a lineal descendant were available he would have to receive the requirements set forth in this revelation; that is, he would have to receive the same kind of a call as all other officers in the Church. The claimant to this presidency would have to be designated by the First Presidency and ordained by that Presidency, if he was worthy. A further limitation is put upon such a person in that it would be necessary for him to prove his lineage or to ascertain it "by revelation from the Lord" under the hands of the Presidency of the Church. (Ibid., verses 19-21.) These provisions again remind us that the Lord's house is one of order. It would be impossible for the membership of the Church to be deceived in accepting a deceiver who would lay claim to this priesthood. Subsequently, the Lord revealed that the literal descendant, properly appointed, could act without counselors. (Ibid., 107:76.)

Another item concerning the Presiding Bishop given in Section 68 concerns the trial of that officer. Verses 22 through 24 specify that the First Presidency may try him for his membership. The ward bishop is not in the same position, since he may be tried by the presidency of the stake under whose jurisdiction he serves, because he does not hold the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood for the Church as does the Presiding Bishop.

MARRIAGE AND PARENTHOOD

Marriage and parenthood are commanded of the Lord as necessary to fulfill the purpose of man's creation and also that of the earth. Those who maintain that marriage is not intended by God are not of him. In the foreordained plan of salvation, the spirit sons and daughters of God were destined to come to the earth and receive the experiences that an earth life offers. (D&C 49:15-17.) The assumption of parenthood by husband and wife entails an obligation of the most sacred kind. When one contem-

855

--- PAGE 854 (PDF page 889) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

plates in what measure the blessings or punishments to be received by children in the eternities to come depend upon the training and teachings given by the parents, the tremendous responsibility of parenthood is better realized.

OFT-QUOTED SCRIPTURE

Because of this responsibility the General Authorities throughout this dispensation have given emphasis to these verses:

And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.

For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized.

And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands.

And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.

And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy (D & C 68:25-29).

A summary of this commandment concerning parents and children includes the following: Parents are obligated (1) to teach their children the first principles and ordinances of the gospel; (2) to have their children baptized at the prescribed age of eight years of age; (3) to teach prayer; (4) to teach children to walk uprightly before the Lord; and (5) to teach observance of the Sabbath day.

What do these admonitions mean?

FIRST PRINCIPLES

Although faith is one of the first principles of the gospel, it is a gift that may grow as the person develops in understanding and practice of gospel principles. To nurture faith in the child, preparation must be made early when the greatest development comes to the individual. Accordingly, the parent teaches the fundamental principles of faith in Christ, of repentance, of baptism in water, and of the necessity for the Holy Ghost in the person's life. Although the Primary Association has some responsibility to prepare children for baptism, and the Sunday School assists, the first principle remains — the parents are responsible and are never relieved of this responsibility.

BAPTISM OF CHILDREN

Section 68 sets forth in plain language that eight years is the age of accountability. Before this time the child is blameless before the Lord (Ibid., 29:46-47), and is saved in the kingdom of heaven. Before the age of eight, the child is of that kingdom. (Mark 10:13-16.) The two main purposes of baptism are to receive entrance into the kingdom of God, and to receive remission of sins. In the case of the child, baptism insures full membership in the kingdom, and the opportunity for the remission of sins upon repentance. (D & C 68:27.) If the person at eight or later does not accept the atonement of Christ for individual sins committed after that age, he remains in the bondage of sin. (Ibid., 84:49-53.) By baptism of the water and the Spirit the door is opened for the person to have the

856

--- PAGE 855 (PDF page 890) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

benefits of the atonement of Christ for personal sins through sincere and genuine repentance. (Lesson 49, Relief Society Magazine, July 1963.)

There is a class of children and adults who do not require baptism. These are the mentally deficient, for the atonement of Christ satisfies the demand of justice and redeems them without baptism. (D & C 29:49-50; Moroni 8:22; Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959, page 689.)

TEACH PRAYER

Fundamental to belief in God and the restoration of the gospel through Joseph Smith is daily prayer. There is probably no one thing that will destroy reverence for Deity and a spiritual life more than to neglect the opportunity to pray. The investigator of the gospel is requested by the missionary to pray that he might learn the truth. The indoctrination of children in the habit of prayer will, in a large measure, keep them from error and give testimony growth. Prayer must, however, be meaningful in words and sincere in thought. The whole heart is demanded of him who seeks for divine guidance as well as the offering of gratitude for blessings received.

If you pray for your needs, then, as President Joseph F. Smith said,

... You pray with intelligence; you pray with understanding; you approach the Lord with a knowledge of what you should do, and how you should approach Him, and how you have a right to ask Him for the blessings you need, even to the laying on of hands upon the sick, praying for them, and rebuking disease, that they may be healed under the blessing of the Lord; and that the world does

not possess (Conference Report, April 1912, page 8).

"TO WALK UPRIGHTLY"

Who should teach the children right and wrong, of the blessings that follow virtue, honesty, respect for authority, honor, loyalty to Church and country, attendance at Church meetings, the doctrines of the gospel, faith in the standard works of the Church, obedience to the law of tithing, Word of Wisdom, and temple marriage?

Here is what President David O. McKay says that bears upon this question:

You may think me extreme, but I am going to say that a married woman who refuses to assume the responsibilities of motherhood, or who, having children, neglects them for pleasure or social prestige, is recreant to the highest calling and privilege of womankind. The father, who because of business or political or social responsibilities, fails to share with his wife the responsibilities of rearing his sons and daughters, is untrue to his marital obligations, is a negative element in what might be and should be a joyous home atmosphere, and is a possible contributor to discord and delinquency (Gospel Ideals, page 477).

SABBATH DAY OBSERVANCE

As always, the best teaching is by example. How can the parents expect the child to observe the commandments, including the keeping of the Sabbath day holy, and at the same time desecrate that day themselves? The importance of observing this holy day is given emphasis in Section 59 (Lesson 43, Relief Society Magazine, September 1962) and also in this section, verse 29. Although given about the instruction of children, the admonition is for all the inhabitants of Zion.

857