[Vol50 | July | Magazine Page 543 | PDF Page 563]
[Title: Work Meeting — The Family As a Planning Group]

--- PAGE 542 (PDF page 562) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

6. Young people are marrying at an earlier age. Too often immatured children start the marriage partnership poorly prepared. Preparation for marriage begins in the nursery, and the parents have the obligation to train the children and become worthy of their respect so that their wisdom and advice will continue to be sought. This is a big order and takes much planning — step by step.

7. This stop-look-and-listen age has affected many people with spectator-itis. They like picture magazines instead of first-source material. They watch television entertainment. We forfeit individual development by watching many programs of no cultural value.

We must plan for the development of future leaders. Training in musicianship is needed today. Latter-day Saints are taking positions of leadership and can wield an increasing influence for the good of mankind if they are trained to do so.

Homemakers, your task is a great one! Think! Plan! Be the guiding and directing influence to bring about the best possible earthly experience for you and your family.

LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 41 — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience (1835-1910)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 617-651)

For Third Meeting, October 1963

Objective: To recognize Mark Twain's moral ideals and conflicts which shaped his literary art and his greatness.

All the world loves both love and laughter, therefore Twain is twice revered for he has come to be symbol of both, to his own age as to ours. And the five decades which have passed since his death, in 1910, have been increasingly kind to him. In his own lifetime he was so overwhelmingly considered to be merely a personality and a "funny man" that almost all American literary critics, save his great friend and advisor, William Dean Howells, ignored him as not meriting serious consideration. Today he ranks with his country's literary giants. He has

[PHOTOGRAPH: Mark Twain]

545

--- PAGE 543 (PDF page 563) ---
JULY 1963

always been the darling of the practical, middle-class reading public, and to this day his books are widely circulated in the average public library.

TWAIN'S LIFE

Samuel Langhorne Clemens was born in 1835 amidreamlike Hannibal, Missouri, facing the wide majesty of the Mississippi River. Though quickened by the vast virgin land to the west, and pulsing with the cosmopolitan river traffic which kept it alive, Hannibal was not a frontier village. Its peaceful pattern was dominated by a securely established Southern culture, with schools, churches, libraries, and temperance societies. American life has never been more exciting and free than in the idealized boyhood which Twain remembered there and created into immortality within his best-loved books: Tom Sawyer, Life on the Mississippi, and Huckleberry Finn. As he wrote decades later, were his veins to be opened, one would find no blood therein, but only Mississippi's mud. And when he spoke of Huckleberry Finn as a hymn, it is the lyric contentment and vital truth of his boyhood in Hannibal to which he referred.

His father was a stern Southern gentleman who could never make ends meet, and who burdened his family with "the Tennessee lands," the real estate which he salvaged from his endless financial failures, and which, for decades after his premature death, was always going to make the family's fortune in just a few more months — maybe in a year at most. Meanwhile, twelve-year-old Sam helped out by beginning his long years as a printer and journalist in the shop of his older brother Orion. It was here and in the various print shops where he worked along the Mississippi and the Ohio rivers for over fifteen years, that he learned the precise use of words as well as many tall tales.

During the four years previous to the Civil War, he fulfilled his childhood dream by becoming a pilot of the great side-wheeler river steamers which were as glamorous as they were dangerous. At the outbreak of the Civil War he was sworn into a company of Confederate volunteers by a Mexican War veteran who had no authority. He shortly gave up soldiering and accompanied his brother Orion to Virginia City, Nevada. In the mining camps of the Comstock Lode and the California Sierras, Sam spent more time writing for local newspapers than he did panning for gold. It was here that he first signed a story "Mark Twain," first got himself fired for opposing the favoritism and unnecessary persecutions of the local police force, first found a national audience with his "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County," and first achieved success as a public lecturer as he described his visit to the Sandwich (or Hawaiian) Islands.

TWAIN'S OLIVIA

In 1867 he boarded the ship Quaker City, commissioned by a newspaper to write a series of travel letters describing the experiences of a group of wealthy Americans making a tour of Europe and the Holy Land. The result was Innocents

546

--- PAGE 544 (PDF page 564) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Abroad. While the ship was anchored in the bay of Smyrna, Twain saw the miniature portrait of Olivia Langdon in the locket of her brother, and on the spot told him she was the woman whom he would love forever and whom he would marry. In 1870 the incredible happened when he married Olivia, the lovely semi-invalid whom he had courted ardently for eighteen months. Olivia had refused him three times in three months. Like the married romances of the Brownings and the Hawthornes, the Twain relationship became one of the true great love stories. Twain was thirty-five, she ten years his junior. Their educational, cultural, financial, and religious backgrounds were diametrical opposites, yet he loved her always and she returned his love. The $120,000 home Twain built for his family in Hartford, Connecticut, was the center of their mutual existence, as were their four children — while they lived. The first child, Langdon Clemens, was almost two when having contracted pneumonia, he died. Of his three daughters, his favorite, sensitive, serious, teasing Susie died of spinal meningitis when she was single and twentyfour. For seven lonely years after his beloved Olivia's death in 1904, his nearest companion was his daughter, Jean, an epileptic who died in 1909. Only his Clara, married to Ossip Gabrielowitsch, an eminent European musician, survived him.

It was for his family and for his close friends that Twain was always so tenderly concerned. Each night he read to "Livy" and the daughters what he had written during the day,

they being his supreme critic. Deliberately he inserted occasional mild profanities in his sentences, that Livy might cross them out, thus continuing her reformation of her beloved ruffian. In 1895, when he was sixty years old, and over $120,000 in debt, a sum he was not legally but morally obligated to pay, he took Olivia with him despite her frail health as he circled the globe giving lectures to pay off this large obligation. This he accomplished in less than two years' time.

The closeness of their souls is apparent in the following letter Twain wrote "Livy" on her fortieth birthday, his fiftieth approaching, and fifteen years of marriage behind them:

We have reached another milestone, my darling, & a very very remote one from the place whence we started; but we look back over a pleasant landscape — valleys that are still green, plains that still bear flowers, hills that still sleep in the soft light of that far morning of blessed memory. And here we have company on the journey — ah, such precious company, such inspiring, such lovely & gracious company! & how they lighten the march! Our faces are toward the sunset, now, but these are with us, to hold our hands, & stay our feet, & while they abide, & our old love grows & never diminishes, our march shall still be through flowers & green fields, & the evening light as pleasant as soft morning glow yonder behind (The Love Letters of Mark Twain, Harper & Row, 1949, page 246. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

After Olivia's death no one again called him "Youth," as she had done throughout all their married years, and with justice. The innocent, eternal boy was now forever homeless, and though after her death he built Stormfield, a great

547

--- PAGE 545 (PDF page 565) ---
JULY 1963

mansion, he was never to be at home again. The inscription he had engraved on her tombstone tells much:

Warm summer sun
Shine kindly here

TWAIN'S HUMOR

Basically Twain was a western Innocent, an enthusiastic idealist brimming with the vital vigor of his moral convictions, always willing to defend them and to oppose greed, officious hypocrisy, and the domination or exploitation of one human being or class by another. Knowing that, effectively used, laughter was the weapon which an opponent found most difficult to counter or vanquish, Twain used humor to point up the human weaknesses which plague us all, Twain included, often hoping that through his sharp satire, individual or social foibles might be revealed for what they were, and corrected or modified. Twain was so acutely aware of the gap between the way things should be and the way they were that for him, the only bearable pathway to endurance and sanity lay through humor.

In the following Twainian antic, note how the humor originates in the difference between how things appear and how they really are, as he contrasts his father-in-law's wealth and generosity with his own gratitude but relative poverty.

After dispelling many apprehensions about the stability of this fiery-headed, flashy-dressing "Wild Humorist of the Pacific Slope," who was brought to be his son-in-law, Jervis Langdon, a wealthy coal dealer of Elmira, New York, finally offered himself as Twain's friend and character reference and told him to "take the girl." As a wedding present he presented the couple with the deed to a lovely home he had bought them, a complete surprise to Sam Clemens, but not to his wife. The couple were taken to the home, told it was theirs; then everyone waited for Sam's reaction. He was much moved, but finally, with tears in his eyes and choking in his voice, he got it out, two or three words at a time:

Mr. Langdon, whenever you are in Buffalo, even if it's twice a year, come right up here, and bring your bag with you. You may stay overnight if you want to, and it shan't cost you a cent (Twitchell, J. H. "Mark Twain," Harpers, XCII, May 1896, page 821).

In his lectures as in his writings, Twain is at his best only when his words are spoken. His lightest genius is sharpest in his folk-tale, story-telling casualness. As a poor substitute for a live Twain lecture, some of his pithy statements from Pudd'nhead Wilson must be permitted to exemplify the dry, often sharp wit which reveals his moral sensitivities as he discerns humanity's failings everywhere about him:

1. It is often the case that the man who can't tell a lie thinks he is the best judge of one.

2. The holy passion of Friendship is of so sweet and steady and loyal and enduring a nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if not asked to lend money.

3. Nothing so needs reforming as other people's habits.

4. He is useless on top of the ground; he ought to be under it, inspiring the cabbages.

5. Man is the Only Animal that blushes. Or needs to.

6. Few of us can stand prosperity. Another man's, I mean.

548