[Vol50 | November | Magazine Page 807 | PDF Page 842]
[Title: In Memoriam — President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle]

--- PAGE 806 (PDF page 841) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

quest from Mr. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor of The Chicago Democrat, that the Prophet prepared his concise and convincing sketch of the rise, progress, persecution, and faith of the Latter-day Saints, together with a summary of the principles taught by the Church — now known as the "Articles of Faith," and referred to in the Documentary History of the Church as "one of the choicest documents in our Church literature." It was in March 1842, that the Prophet commenced publication in The Times and Seasons of his translation of "The Book of Abraham," from Egyptian papyrus, which its important record of ancient saints, brought to light in this dispensation, has been said to stand second only to The Book of Mormon. Those were days when the missionary program was being expanded and zealously forwarded, the fruits of which were showing in the large number of immigrants coming into Nauvoo.

Among the events of great significance to the sisters of the Church was the founding of "The Female Relief Society" on March 17, 1842. It seems that this was a propitious time for the Lord to give to his daughters, through his Prophet, an organization whereby they might more fully perfect themselves and more effectively serve the Church and its people.

The sisters had evidenced a readiness for this blessing. They had studied the scriptures. They had listened to their Prophet and been obedient to his teachings. They had helped in the work of the

Church, particularly had they endeavored to do the women's work toward the erection of the temple. So eager were they more fully to do their part that they sought, at the hands of the Prophet, approval for an organization for which Sister Eliza R. Snow had drawn up a constitution and by-laws.

Sister Sarah M. Kimball, relating the circumstances that led to the organization of Relief Society, stated that the sisters wished to form a "Ladies Society" in order that they might combine their means and efforts to assist those who were working on the Nauvoo Temple. The Prophet replied:

... this is not what you want. Tell the Sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution. Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my store next Thursday afternoon, and I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood (Centenary of Relief Society, page 14).

We may be sure that it was with eagerness and rejoicing that the sisters — eighteen in number — met at the appointed hour and place on Thursday, March 17, 1842. With grateful hearts they heard their beloved and revered Prophet utter these words long to be remembered by the sisters of the Church: "I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors according to parliamentary usages" (Relief Society Magazine, March 1942, page 151).

Elder John Taylor, who with Elder Willard Richards accompanied the Prophet on this momentous occasion, addressed the sisters, saying

808

--- PAGE 842 --- ERROR: Error code: 400 - {'type': 'error', 'error': {'type': 'invalid_request_error', 'message': 'Output blocked by content filtering policy'}, 'request_id': 'req_011CYtJC7kcGDaR9wpbZHJkX'}

--- PAGE 808 (PDF page 843) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

Elder Spencer W. Kimball, in an article published in The Relief Society Magazine, poses these questions with regard to Paul's words to the Corinthians: "What did the apostle Paul mean by helps and governments? Could the governments be the Priesthood leaders who govern and direct all the work in the Church, and could the "helps" mean the helping organizations, such as Relief Society?"

Whether there was a formal organization such as that of our present Relief Society in the early Church remains for the prophets to tell us; but it is not difficult to believe that the sisters were called to do such work as is now assigned to Relief Society.

Relief Society, as founded by the Prophet, is now on the way to its second century of life and service. During the 121 years of its existence, tremendous changes have taken place in the world and among its people. Few changes, perhaps, have been greater than the change in the status of woman and her readiness to speak and act through organized groups. When Relief Society was founded, only a few courageous women dared to speak in public, and fewer still braved the formation of an organization.

In contrast to these conditions, I recently attended a meeting in Washington D.C. where I was one among 300 presidents representing women's organizations of this Nation, none of which had a membership of less than 100,000. These 300 presidents represented a total of fifty million organized women in the United States. They had been invited to meet with high Government officials to offer their views on some of the Nation's difficult issues.

It is a marvel that in the face of all this change and growth that the basic organization structure of Relief Society, its governing regulations and original purposes, as set by the Prophet Joseph Smith, have remained constant, and the Society, under the pattern established 121 years ago, continues to function effectively in each succeeding era of time. This alone attests that Relief Society was founded according to the laws of heaven and not of man.

Relief Society was continually under the watchcare of the Prophet during the days of Nauvoo, receiving his counsel and instruction, just as it has been under the watchcare of God's chosen prophets who have succeeded him. In his instructions to the sisters, the Prophet made clear that they were organized under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood. He told them, "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in this dispensation."

He taught the sisters, "If any officers are wanted to carry out the design of the institution, let them be appointed and set apart." (You note he did not say elected by the membership.) He made membership in the Society a privilege, yet he opened its doors to all women "free from censure," who were to be received by vote, according to his directive.

Insofar as a constitution and by-

810

--- PAGE 809 (PDF page 844) ---
THE DIVINITY WITHIN RELIEF SOCIETY

laws were concerned, which the sisters had submitted to him in the beginning, he said "Let this presidency serve as a Constitution — all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such. . . . The minutes of your meetings will be precedent for you to act upon — your Constitution and law" (Century of Relief Society, page 15).

Thus Relief Society was regulated in the beginning; thus it is regulated today.

The Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key in behalf of women of this dispensation. His impressive words are treasured words: "I now turn the key in your behalf and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. . . . This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads."

Just as Relief Society was divinely founded and regulated by divine inspiration according to the laws of heaven, so it has a divinely appointed mission. Listed simply I would say its mission is:

1. To save souls.
2. To strengthen testimonies of the divinity of the restored gospel.
3. To succor the distressed.
4. To develop the talents and abilities of the sisters.
5. To strengthen home and family life.
6. To serve as a handmaid to the Priesthood in building the kingdom of our Heavenly Father on earth.

President David O. McKay has made reference to the mission of Relief Society in these impressive words:

By divine decree, the women in the Church are assigned the noble mission of being exemplars and leaders to mankind in the two most worthwhile accomplishments in mortal life; first, the development of character. That is done in the home, principally. Second, willingness and ability to render helpful service — that through the organized Relief Society. These two accomplishments, by the way, are all that we shall take with us when, at the end of our earthly career, we pass through the portals of Death into the realm of the Eternal — Character and Service (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1956, page 807).

Certainly, Relief Society, with a knowledge of God's divine law of free agency, with a knowledge of the sacredness of the individual and God's plan of life and salvation for his children as revealed in these latter days through his Prophet, has a grave responsibility to share this knowledge with women the world over, and to shed its influence in the promotion of freedom and the way of life taught by the Master. There is no other organization of women in the world upon whom this responsibility rests so heavily. There is no other group to whom organized women of the world should be able to look with greater assurance for strong, wise, and righteous leadership. We must work through proper channels, it is true, and as authorized by our Priesthood authorities, but work we must and give to the women of the world the truths we have been given by divine revelation.

Accepting its divine mission, unscathed by time or change, Relief Society must stand a bulwark against the forces of evil striving to engulf women. It must be as a beacon light and a guiding star to women of many nations.

I would like to conclude by read-

811