[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 887 | PDF Page 926]
[Title: President Nathan Eldon Tanner]

--- PAGE 886 (PDF page 925) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH - Portrait of a man in suit and tie, black and white formal headshot]

--- PAGE 887 (PDF page 926) ---
the Silver Wolf awards. The Silver Acorn is the highest scouting award given in Canada. During the years 1952-1958 Elder Tanner was engaged in many industrial and commercial enterprises and became president of Merrill Petroleum Company and a director of the Toronto-Dominion Bank of Canada.

His devoted service to the Church, since early manhood, has included positions as branch president, bishop, stake president, and mission president. At the time of his call to the First Presidency, he was a member of the Council of the Twelve and President of the Genealogical Society of the Church.

President and Sister Tanner have five lovely daughters, all married and living in Canada. They have twenty-four grandchildren.

The sisters of Relief Society join with Church members world-wide in appreciation and gratitude for the dynamic, dedicated leadership of President Tanner, and the inspiration, counsel, and testimony which he bears of the gospel message.

Sister Tanner is an ideal wife, mother, grandmother, and homemaker, dearly loved by a large circle of friends, relatives, and associates. She has been active in the Auxiliaries of the Church and has served in many capacities in Relief Society, among them as a stake counselor in Calgary Stake.

In addressing the saints following the announcement of his appointment to the First Presidency, President Tanner spoke of his desire for the faith and prayers of the members of the Church, and said, "I can humbly say, as did Nephi of old, that 'I will go and do the things which the Lord has commanded.'"

The Need of the Name

Christie Lund Coles

The name of Christmas is a magic name,
As are its kindred names known to our ear:
Hallelujah! Shepherd lads who came
Following the star, to see, to hear;
The syllables of Bethlehem which fall
In cadence like some long-loved, choice refrain;
The wise men, angels, and the humble stall.
Each stands a symbol of his birth again.

For somewhere, deep inside each listening soul,
Need of the names of Christmas reaches out
For reassurance . . . of the tree, the toll
Of pealing bell and children's eager shout.

Oh, Holy Night, on which the heavens smiled,
How deep our need for the name of one small Child.

889

--- PAGE 888 (PDF page 927) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Elder
Thomas Spencer Monson

Elder Thomas Spencer Monson was appointed and sustained a member of the Council of the Twelve at the Friday morning session of the Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, October 4, 1963. This high position of responsibility and leadership has come to one of the youngest men to be so called in many years. Elder Monson is thirty-six years old. He is a humble man of much experience in Church work and in business and civic affairs. He radiates spirituality, humility, kindness, and a deep and pervading solicitude for all the Heavenly Father's children upon the earth.

Elder Monson was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, a son of G. Spencer and Gladys Condie Monson. He is a graduate of West High School, and received his B.S. Degree in business at the University of Utah, and is a member of Alpha Kappa Psi, honorary business fraternity.

He began his career at the Deseret News Press at an early age, and has held many positions of responsibility, including manager of the classified advertising department, sales manager of the Deseret News Press, assistant classified advertising manager of the

890

--- PAGE 889 (PDF page 928) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

ELDER THOMAS S. MONSON AND HIS FAMILY

Left to right: Ann, age nine; Thomas Lee, age twelve; Elder Thomas S. Monson; Sister Frances J. Monson. Front, center: Clark Spencer, age four.

Newspaper Agency Corporation, and was manager of the Deseret News Press at the time of his call to the apostleship. A former member of the Utah Association of Sales Executives and the Salt Lake Advertising Club, he is a past president of the Printing Industry of Utah. Currently, he is a member of the Board of Directors of Printing Industry of America.

Since boyhood Elder Monson has been active in the Church, and his service in all of these callings has been marked by inspiration, devotion, and a strong and steadfast testimony of the gospel. He has been a ward clerk, counselor in a ward bishopric, and at the age of twenty-two, he became bishop of the Sixth-Seventh Ward of Temple View Stake. After five years in this calling, he was appointed second counselor in the Temple View Stake presidency. In March 1959 he was called to preside over the Canadian Mission. In this calling he was instrumental in bringing many new members into the Church and was an enthusiastic leader of missionaries and converts. His lovely wife, Frances Johnson Monson, directed the Relief Society organizations of the Canadian Mission with en-

891