[Vol50 | September | Magazine Page 641 | PDF Page 668]
[Title: Frontispiece / From Near and Far]

--- PAGE 640 (PDF page 667) ---
From Near and Far

If you want to take a very enjoyable trip, read the article in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine written by Claire Noall, "A Road by the Sea." To make the trip more interesting were those lovely pictures, so vivid and colorful. Surely Claire has some more articles which are worthwhile, and more pictures she can tell us about.
—Olive Sharp
Salt Lake City, Utah

In the unusually splendid Relief Society Magazine for June, I especially appreciate the article on Norway, with its beautiful color pictures, the result of careful planning and artistic study, by Claire Noall. I hope we have more of such articles by such a gifted writer.
—Hortense Y. Hammond
Salt Lake City, Utah

As a result of The Relief Society Magazine Birthday Congratulations column published in May to Sarah Benjamin, age ninety-one, she received a letter on her birthday from the man who baptized her in Providence, Rhode Island, sixty-six years ago - in 1897. As a young woman, she had traveled all alone from her home in England to this country. One of the young missionaries who taught her the gospel was Willis K. Johnson now living in Springville, Utah, with his wife Eva. It has been a joyous reunion for these lovely people after all these many years — thanks to the Magazine.
—Mabel B. Liddell
San Francisco, California

I have been taking the Magazine for a long time and have enjoyed every issue. The size is designed for convenience and beauty, and the lessons and many articles and features have been improved for easier reading and understanding and better teaching and class rapport, but the gospel truths, genuine love and interest, and faith building are the same now as when I was first introduced to the Magazine.
—Esther C. Riggs
Payson, Arizona

How many times I have received inspiration from the magnificent Relief Society Magazine. As a young mother, I have found the May issue to be especially uplifting. Such worthwhile hints for good homemaking as in Elna P. Haymond's story about her mother give remarkable insight into our duties as mothers. And what mother could help but be touched and grateful for her children after reading "Early Years Are a Mother's Glory," by Leora Zetzer Wintch, and "Too Busy" by Annella Barnes? Another outstanding article in this issue is Leola Seely Anderson's "As the Heart Grows."
—Sue Jane Alvord
Glendale, California

We would all from the Coventry Ward like to tell you how much we enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. We like the new look very much — it makes the Magazine more interesting. Also, we like the photographs of our sisters from other lands.
—Eveline Austin
Coventry, England

After reading and enjoying the Magazine for the past several years, I would like to thank you for the most complete reading material I have ever read. It teaches and guides; it inspires, comforts, and reprimands. It is all things pleasurable in reading and learning. I also thank my mother-in-law who first introduced me to Relief Society and the Magazine, and has provided me with this most precious gift for eight years.
—Alice Stoddard
Auburn, Washington

We are so very proud of each issue of the Magazine, and feel that it is one of our great tools in the missionary program here in Hawaii.
—Louise F. Brooks
Former President
Hawaii Mission
Relief Society
Honolulu, Hawaii

642

--- PAGE 641 (PDF page 668) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

SEPTEMBER 1963    VOLUME 50    NUMBER 9

Editor: Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor: Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager: Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
644  Birthday Greetings to President David O. McKay  Belle S. Spafford
647  The Seventy-fifth Anniversary Conference of the International Council of Women
      Marianne C. Sharp
654  He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith – Part IV  President Lorenzo Snow  Preston Nibley
664  Thoughts of a New Member  Rosina Victoria Risley
672  From the Palace of a Princess to a Place in Normandy  Claire Noall

Fiction
656  The Restyling  Dorothea J. Neilson
666  Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 3  Rosa Lee Lloyd

General Features
642  From Near and Far
661  Woman's Sphere  Ramona W. Cannon
662  Editorial:  An Understanding Heart  Marianne C. Sharp
691  Notes From the Field  Hulda Parker
720  Birthday Congratulations

Features for the Home
678  The Eating Club  Louise S. Davis
681  Rock Gardening  Dorthea N. Newbold
685  Bazaars Are Wonderful!  Louise W. Madsen
690  Charlotte B. Richards — Keeper of Records

Lessons for December
698  Theology — The Kingdom of God  Roy W. Doxey
704  Visiting Teacher Message — "Continue in Patience Until Ye Are Perfected"
      Christine H. Robinson
705  Work Meeting — Planning the Conservation of Family Resources  Virginia F. Cutler
708  Literature — The Quickening Spirit of Emily Dickinson  Briant S. Jacobs
717  Social Science — Lesson not Included for December

Poetry
641  Yesterday's Gold — Frontispiece  Dorothy J. Roberts
      Dusk Gold, Christie Lund Coles, 653; The Stars Are There, Grace Barker Wilson, 665;
      I Want and Wonder, Caroline Eyring Miner, 665; Show Weather, Gilean Douglas, 671;
      Autumn Beauty, Zara Sabin, 703; Shut Out, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 707; Forever,
      Florence S. Glines, 715; Mother's Hands, Linda Clarke, 716; Pathway, Catherine B.
      Bowles, 716; Autumn Wind, Rowena Jensen Bills, 719.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by The Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 642 (PDF page 669) ---
Birthday Greetings to

President David O. McKay

[ILLUSTRATION: Orange/red temple or cathedral building]

President Belle S. Spafford

Relief Society members join with other members of the Church in extending to President David O. McKay best wishes for a happy ninetieth birthday on Sunday, September 8, 1963. May the love and esteem felt for him by members of the Church, as well as by countless nonmember friends, help to gladden the day for him as he meets with his loved ones in the intimate family circle. May his glorious past accomplishments, coupled with his magnificent present leadership, serve as an encouraging indication to him of future growth and expansion of the Church under his inspired guidance.

Nearly two million members of the Church residing in many parts of the world revere President McKay as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, and God's chosen servant to preside at this time as President of his Church on the earth. To President McKay have been given all the keys of authority of the Priesthood and of the Church upon earth. By the word of the Lord he is President of the High Priesthood of the Church and, as such, he presides over the Priesthood, and every office in the Church is under his direction while he himself is directed of God.

As the Prophet, he is the one chosen and inspired by God to speak in his name regarding future events and happenings pertaining to the Church and mankind. As the Seer, he is the one who, with divinely inspired discernment and insight, foresees that which is necessary for the onward movement of the Church and the righteous progress of its people. As the Revelator, he is the only one on earth at this time authorized to receive revelation for the Church. He is the living oracle of God to whom the Lord reveals whatever is necessary for the conduct of the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared this to be "the order of the Church" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 111).

In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107, verses 91-93 we read:

And again, the duty of the President of the office of the High Priesthood is to preside over the whole church, and to be like unto Moses—

Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be a seer, a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the church.

As the chosen one of the Lord for this day to be head of the Church, serving in the office of President, accepted and upheld as such by vote of the Priesthood and laity of the

644

--- PAGE 643 (PDF page 670) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Church assembled in a General Conference, President McKay holds an extremely taxing and responsible office. Office within the Church is not part of the Priesthood, but it is from the Priesthood that the office derives its authority and power. Office is service or duty to be performed; the line of work to be followed.

As we consider the rapid growth and expansion of the Church today, the duties incident to the office of President are overwhelming, and the responsibilities resting upon the President are beyond comprehension to most of us. One almost wonders how mortal man can meet the end-

less requirements. Yet, President McKay meets the duties of each day with poise, graciousness, wisdom, and diligence, coming to his office in the very early hours of the morning and often remaining past the ordinary working day.

The General Presidency of Relief Society has been favored in having frequent opportunity to see President McKay impressively exercise the varied functions of his calling — Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of the Church — in behalf of Relief Society and the sisters who comprise its membership. We have stood awed by his insight and understanding, his counsel and direction;

645