[Vol50 | May | Magazine Page 354 | PDF Page 372]
[Title: As the Heart Grows]

--- PAGE 353 (PDF page 371) ---
THE INSIDE OF THE CUP

unwashed old hired man. Didn't she know she had enough worries just trying to keep Bethy satisfied with the insufficient amount of milk, trying to wash with the paltry amount of water allotted her, trying to....

"I won't do it," she declared to no one in particular, unless perchance, Buttercup heard, placidly chewing her cud somewhere in the nearby shadows. "I won't do it," she said again. "Benny shan't go with that dirty, ignorant old sheepherder. If he comes near, I'll give him a send off he won't forget."

When Jonathon had first learned of this valley and wanted to homestead here, Drusilla's first concern had been whether or not there were neighbors. Yes, Jonathon had assured her, there were other settlers nearby. When the "others" turned out to be an old sheepherder and his flock of odorous woolies, she had been appalled. What made it worse was that Jonathon had accepted Pablo matter-of-factly, and Benny and Bethy were as fascinated by him as he was by them. That his clothes were filthy, his whiskers matted and unkempt, and his person long unwashed seemed to matter to no one but her. She had tried to discourage his all too obvious attentions, refusing to accept his favors, and demanding that Jonathon pay him for the occasional piece of unsavory looking mutton he brought them. She could still hear the dressing down Jonathon gave her.

"You can't buy love," he had told her sternly, "which is what Pablo is giving us. And love is all he wants in return. Can't you see we're folks to him?"

"But he's so dirty," she had wailed, "and look what he's doing to Benny. I even have a hard time getting him to bathe or change his clothes any more, since he wants to copy Pablo in everything."

"Well," Jonathon had suggested mildly, "the best solution might be for you to make Pablo a new shirt and lend him the bathtub."

DRUSILLA had glanced at him in quick suspicion. "You needn't make fun," she said finally. "I am concerned about my son's welfare, even if you aren't. I don't like the influence Pablo has on him."

"Honey," Jonathon had replied earnestly, "I'm not joking. I am concerned about Benny's welfare, too, and I think Pablo is good for him. He's friendly and honest, and I respect him. I happen to know he has had a mighty lonely existence the past few years. Why won't you try to help him, Druc?" But she had fought the idea then as she was fighting it now.

Drusilla knew she should be beginning the day's tasks. There was the washing to do, the shirt she was making for Jonathon and Benny to finish, a little apron to iron for Bethy, and above all, the empty jars to be prepared for the jam she intended to make. But she continued to linger in the narrow doorway, grateful for the cloaking shadows which softened the ugliness of alkali flats and rocky outcroppings — of hills with their scant pasturage — of the lonely, desolate homestead.

In the late September dawn, corn shocks showed, tepee-like, in the fenced enclosure, dim evidence of the year's harvest, and she was grate-

355

--- PAGE 354 (PDF page 372) ---
MAY 1963

ful for the security it represented. It was meager, but supplemented by milk from the cow and the luscious elzerita berries Jonathon had promised to bring her for the winter's sweetening, it should suffice.

From across the nearby arroyo, Old Pablo's sheepcote emitted a multivocal of sheep impatient to begin the day's grazing, and, simultaneously, the acrid smell of pulverized sheep droppings stung the nostrils. Grimacing distastefully, Drusilla stepped over the raised door sill and entered the hut, shutting the heavy slab door behind her.

In the flickering light of the coal-oil lamp the transformation she had wrought in this crude little jacal brought the customary wave of satisfaction. Deserted, prior to their coming a year ago, by its former inhabitant, it had been a very unappealing dwelling. She and Jonathon had whitewashed the walls inside and out, sanded the floor, hung shelves for dishes, driven wooden pegs for hanging clothes, and sunk posts into the floor to support the woven rawhide thongs on which now rested two corn-shuck mattresses. On one of these, ten-year-old Benny still lay in well-scrubbed oblivion.

DRUSILLA gathered up the soiled clothes and laid out fresh ones for Benny. She was a tall woman, neat and well-groomed even at this early hour, with a mania for cleanliness. Her high button shoes were fastened to the very top, her demure calico gown securely buttoned, and her long hair carefully restrained at the nape of her neck. The uncompromising sternness of

her thin features was relieved only by the mouth, which carried a generous sensitivity.

Drusilla had not known Benny was awake, but there he was, sitting up in bed, his brown eyes beneath the sun-bleached blond thatch fixed intently on hers. She turned away to avoid seeing the disappointment she knew she was going to inflict.

"Good morning, son," she said over her shoulder, "did you sleep well?"

"Yes, Mama. Say, Mama, may I...?"

"Good," she interrupted quickly. "Now hurry and dress, because I want you to drag some sticks for the wash fire before you milk Buttercup. And the barrel is low, so I'll need you to go carry some water from the arroyo."

"But Mama...." There was agonizing heartbreak in his cry. "Pa said I could help Pablo drive the sheep to another water hole over on the slope. I've never gone with him, and Pa said I could. Pablo needs me, Mama. Let me milk now."

Drusilla almost weakened. Benny had so few pleasures in this harsh, new land. Maybe it wouldn't hurt to let him go just this once. Then a vivid image of Benny growing up to be like Pablo, if she allowed the friendship to continue, and, worse still, the thought of the old man in the rank, disreputable garments he wore, coming in contact with tiny Betty in the dainty little dresses she labored so hard to keep clean, built up her resolve anew. No. She couldn't give in now. Today, while Jonathon was not here to act as buffer between what he called her un-

356

--- PAGE 355 (PDF page 373) ---
THE INSIDE OF THE CUP

feelingness and the old man's friend-
ly overtures, was the time to put
Pablo in his place.
    Drusilla swung around to face the
boy, who stood with feet planted
wide apart and stubbornly protrud-
ing lip. "Your — Pa — is — not —
here," she mouthed with what she
hoped was unmistakable finality,
"and whether you think Pablo needs
you or not is immaterial. We don't
owe that old sheepherder anything."

BUT Benny refused to be silenced.
"Pa says the outside dirt doesn't
matter so much, if the inside is
clean," he informed her doggedly.
"And we do, too, owe Pablo some-
thing!" Realizing he had found the
chink in her armor, his voice began
to climb. "He made Dobbin well
the time he ate those poison weeds.
And I'll bet if Buttercup ate some
of them he could. . . ."
    "Benny, won't it be nice if your
Pa brings a big sack of elzerita ber-
ries?" Drusilla tried frantically to
turn his mind to a less disturbing
subject. But a thrill of fear went
through her; that was why Jonathon
had gone to the mountains. They
needed posts to build Buttercup a
pen before the dwindling forage
tempted her to eat the deadly plant.
    "No!" Benny scornfully refused
to be sidetracked. "You never let
me give any of it to Pablo, and he
likes sweet stuff. You're mean, that's
what you are!" And, jerking open
the door, he ran angrily up the hill-
side in search of wash wood.
    Somewhat shaken, Drusilla almost
wished she had not made an issue of
Benny's desire to go with Pablo. She
hated discord, and, ordinarily man-
aged to keep her household running

smoothly. But honesty compelled
her to admit it was because Jona-
thon generally let her have her way,
and Benny was mostly quite tract-
able.
    She sewed several buttons on the
blue chambray shirts, and then
ironed Bethy's ruffled apron, later
brushing the baby's silky hair into
golden ringlets. A sudden thank-
fulness came over her; she was so
grateful for this beautiful little
daughter! No wonder old Pablo
couldn't keep his hands off her. A
shamed sympathy for the lonely life
he led in the decrepit little shack
beyond the arroyo swept over her.
She really should be kinder, because,
as Jonathon said, he did seem anx-
ious to learn their ways, and she
could help him. Of course she
would never agree to make him a
member of the family, as Jonathon
and the children would like, or even
to let Benny follow him into the
hills, but she would be kind. If he
came to get Benny, she would . . .
    "Beenee!" Old Pablo's hoarse
croak sounded outside the jacal,
"You help Pablo with sheeps?"
    Drusilla threw open the door.
"Good morning, Pablo, Benny
isn't here. He has gone to get. . . ."

BUT old Pablo wasn't listening.
He had spied little Bethy peep-
ing from behind Drusilla's skirts and
was holding out his arms. Like a
flash, the tot slipped through the
doorway and held up her own to be
taken, crying, "Pab'o, Pab'o," in de-
lighted welcome. A radiant joy
suffused the grimy, wrinkled old
face. He swung her up to press the
grizzled whiskers against the deli-
cate little face, fondling her plump

357

--- PAGE 356 (PDF page 374) ---
chubbiness, caressing the golden curls, and murmuring endearments. The little apron became dirt-smirched, the tiny arms and face acquired greasy finger marks.

Horrified, Drusilla swooped to snatch her darling away from such sacrilege. The kindliness she had intended was forgotten in the wild fury that swept over her.

"Take your hands off my baby. Go away. Don't come around here any more . . . ever. Oh. . . ."

Old Pablo stared at her, stunned, for a long moment, then comprehension dawned in the dim old eyes.

"I make Bethee dirty, Pablo very sorry," he said with quiet dignity, turning away. "Bethee is like Pablo's baby who died in this house long time ago. Pablo go now — not come back." Tears furrowing the brown, grizzled cheeks, he staggered away.

She had won. Breathing rapidly, Drusilla leaned against the doorway of the little house which had been Pablo's, which, she knew now, he had vacated in order that she might have a place in which to live. Jonathon knew; he had made a trip here. Why, oh, why hadn't he told her? Why had he let her continue in her cruel selfishness?

Unmindful of the crying Bethy, she started after him. She would bring him back, tell him what a fool she had been, make up to him for the loss of the little daughter he had loved long ago, help him. On she ran, disregarding the brush that snagged at her clothing and scratched her skin.

BENNY came stumbling down the hillside, yelling and waving his arms. He reached old Pablo, said something to him, then raced toward her.

"Buttercup — poisoned. Pablo wants kettle — water. Hurry," he gasped.

They worked feverishly, Drusilla down on her knees in the dust beside the silent old man, forcing the antidote he had brewed from leaves of some nameless plant down the cow's throat, praying as she had never prayed before. But she knew, from old Pablo's discouraged shrug, that it was too late.

"Find another cow quick," he said, finally, giving them all a compassionate look before shuffling off to round up his long-neglected sheep.

Guilt lying heavy in her breast, Drusilla walked back to the jacal, conscious of Benny's condemning look. Had she allowed him to go after the cow earlier, as he had wished, Bethy might not now be faced with possible starvation. There were no other milk cows in the area. How insignificant seemed all her fears concerning Pablo's undesirable influence on her children now that Bethy might not live to grow up, and Benny hated her!

Since there was no Buttercup for Benny to milk next day, he wandered aimlessly about, glancing occasionally at the pan of jam left over after Drusilla had filled the Mason jars from the luscious fruit Jonathon had brought from the mountains. Wordlessly, she filled Bethy's white cup — unneeded now — and gave it to Benny. Like a flash he was out the door and on his way to Pablo — Pablo who loved sweets, who loved her who had abused him.

358