[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 22 | PDF Page 25]
[Title: Beehive Reactivated]

--- PAGE 21 (PDF page 24) ---
Sego Lilies

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Roxana Farnsworth Hase

Second Prize Poem

Impatiently we waited for the snow to melt,
The sun to warm the winter-weary roots;
Then, kitchen fork and tin pail in our hands,
We searched the valley floor for sego lily shoots.
How earnestly we took the prize from loosened earth,
Brown-coated, small, but succulent and sweet;
Manna in a desert not yet blossomed as the rose.
How blest we were to share this hidden treat!

Stern greasewood fingers caught and held our skirts,
Chill gusts of wind made bonnets insecure
As self-appointed guardians tried to hide
Some of the precious root bulbs to mature.
Thinking only of our present needs,
We would have taken all, these hunger-laden hours,
But who could doubt the wisdom of the plan
To let us also know the beauty of the flowers!

23

--- PAGE 22 (PDF page 25) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Attic Rain

Third Prize Poem
Dorothy J. Roberts

On attic roof there is the sound of showers;
And on my eyes the sting of inward rain
And in my heart with every spring returning,
The stored away, recurrent wrench of pain.

A broken tool . . . and here a bit of garden
Still dangles from the worn sole of a shoe,
The step it took returning every season
Past thistled solitude and twigs of yew.

Pen-fashioned lines re-read and keepsakes dusted —
A slow-resolving memory clinging yet —
This barren desert of a love's withholding
Indigenous to dust where eyes are wet.

The dust from broken days should not be sterile,
Tears be but stains upon an attic floor;
What wonder wakens in a dry Sahara
When the falling rain beats on its hidden door.

Heart-cleaning time comes to the April moment,
And like the seasonal showers, attic tears
Water the roots and nourish new tomorrows —
As roses from this dust — the reaching years.

24

--- PAGE 23 (PDF page 26) ---
Miranda Snow Walton was born in Wyoming and has resided for several years in El Monte, California. She is a third-generation Church member and has served in all phases of Church work open to women. Poetry has always been an interest in her life, and she was named the outstanding poet of Wyoming in 1943. Her poems have been widely published, and she is a fifth-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, having received third prize in 1950, third prize in 1946, second prize in 1948, first prize in 1950, and first prize again in 1962. She now has a book of poems entitled For Lovers Only ready for publication. Her poems have brought much joy and comfort to her family and to her many friends and fellow-poets.

Mrs. Walton has three children: Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens), Jack, and Claude Walton. She has been an invalid for several years, and confined to a wheel chair. [Note: Mrs. Walton passed away in El Monte, California, November 12, 1962, several weeks after she had received notification that she had won first prize in the contest.]

Roxana Farnsworth Hase is a third-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, having received the second prize in 1933 and third prize in 1937. She was born in Manti, Utah, and educated in Manti and Salt Lake City, Utah. She was graduated from the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City and has been a registered nurse for forty-three years. She married Grover Hase in 1922. He died in 1955, leaving her with three children. There are ten grandchildren. After her husband's death, Mrs. Hase went back to nursing and was head nurse at the L.D.S. Hospital in Salt Lake City for many years, and was later Assistant Chief Evening Supervisor at the Veterans Hospital.

Her book of poems Delicious Lumps has been widely circulated, and she has been national Poet Laureate for the Colonial Dames of the Seventeenth Century. She has been counselor and president in ward Relief Societies and a Sunday School teacher for many years. She is a member of the National League of American Pen Women, the National Writers Club, and other literary organizations.

Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, attended the University of Utah for three years and taught school for two years. She began her writing in college and has published stories, articles, and poetry. Her work has appeared in the Deseret News, the Salt Lake Tribune, the Improvement Era, The Relief Society Magazine, and other publications.

She has won the Deseret News Christmas Poetry Contest; second place in the Utah State Fine Arts Poetry Contest; several poetry awards from the League of Utah Writers and the Utah State Poetry Society. She has been a winner six times in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, having won the first prize three times. She is represented in four poetry anthologies.

Mrs. Roberts is the wife of L. Paul Roberts, a Salt Lake City business man. They have two married daughters and six grandchildren.

Edith Larson is a third-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, having won the third prize in 1955, and second prize in 1956. She lives in Manton, Michigan.

"I am a native of Minnesota," she tells us, "a long-time resident of Michigan, and a former resident of Fountain Green, Utah. I majored in journalism at Northwestern University and have been studying and practicing the art in my spare time ever since. When I retire from teaching four years from now, I expect to devote all my time to writing, baby sitting for my grandchildren, and working in the branch which we hope will soon be organized here. Manton and Cadillac, combined in the fall of 1962, gave us enough sisters to have our own Relief Society."

25

--- PAGE 24 (PDF page 27) ---
Award Winners

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1962 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1962.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Edith Larson of Manton, Michigan, for her story "The Tender Kiss." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Christie Lund Coles, Provo, Utah, for her story "The Home." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her story "Stranger at Nazareth."

The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1963.

Forty-nine stories were entered in the contest for 1961, including submissions from Canada, England, Germany, and Australia.

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate.

A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the Short Story Committee of the General Board and to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories.

Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest

26