[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 914 | PDF Page 953]
[Title: A Time for Enchanted Christmas Trees]

--- PAGE 913 (PDF page 952) ---
THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT

DANISH MODERN
DESIGN BY
MIKE ROSS

This design may be made from a wooden frame, with the "branches" either painted or carefully wrapped with gold, silver, or colored foil. Various kinds of candles are attached to the frame and give a decorative touch to the simplicity of the angles of the tree.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

This unusually beautiful and original Christmas tree design is particularly effective in the corner of a room. The tiers are three-layered, the first being made from gilt balls, the second from twigs of greenery, and the third from small electric candles. The layers are connected by fine, strong wire, and the whole design is suspended from the ceiling. Many variations are suggested by this arrangement: numerous single colors offer a wide selection, and color combinations are unlimited—the design would be lovely in blue or rose; instead of the layer of greenery, decorative chains or ropes of tinsel might be used; the base for the tiers could be wreaths or styrofoam circles.

TIERS OF GOLD
DESIGN BY HELMUT KLUNKER

915

--- PAGE 914 (PDF page 953) ---
DECEMBER 1963

WHITE GRANDEUR Here a beautiful tapered, tall tree is com-
DESIGN BY PEGGY CORNIA pletely covered with white cotton wool
to resemble the soft lightness of freshly
fallen snow. Large blue bells and red lights accentuate the white
grandeur of the tree in a design of unusual effectiveness.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

The trunk of this tree may be a long dowel TREE OF WREATHS
rod, a round curtain rod, a broomstick, or DESIGN BY NELL CLAYBURN
other strong round rod. The green wreaths
are arranged in graduated sizes from top to bottom, and are attached
to the center rod with fine gilt wire. Plastic balls decorate the tree.
A variation of this design might be made by using small artificial
fruits as the decorative features.

916

--- PAGE 915 (PDF page 954) ---
THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT

"...AND THE ANGELS SANG"
DESIGN BY GERTRUDE GLAUSER

Four large oval frames in gold, with a red stripe form the structure of this tree. Each frame is decorated with evergreen boughs lightly tip-sprayed with gold. The lights are lovely hanging pendants. The singing figurines are clad in red robes. A smaller basic tree could be made with embroidery hoops, wreaths, or other circular or oval forms wired together.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

This lovely tree is sprayed in mauve tones, with a light sifting of snow on the branches. It is decorated with blue balls, small white lights, and a few pink lights. Yellow plastic canaries may be seen on the branches of the tree, and golden bird cages, some of them containing canaries, hang from the branches. Many variations are suggested by this unusual tree—variations in color scheme, figurines, and color and shape of lights.

"IT'S FOR THE BIRDS"
DESIGN BY HARRIET DAVIS

917

--- PAGE 916 (PDF page 955) ---
A Lovely Gift

Ornamental Silk Panel
in Snowflake Design

Betty B. Huber

DON'T let a meager budget dwarf your creativity. There is always colored tissue paper. With it and rubber cement glue you can create a most interesting hanging.

Purchase a lovely piece of silk, either a soft beige or white. Then decide on the width and length you wish the panel to be. I hand hemmed the sides one inch wide, then machine stitched the top and bottom hems for the rods to slide through.

I obtained curtain rods for hanging the panel. Select rods with ornate knobs. You will need two rods, one for the top and one for the bottom. To the rod at the top, attach gold cording to hang it to the wall.

These panels are attractive hung in pairs, or singly, perhaps to hang over a console.

Lovely patterns and designs emerge from circles, squares, petals, and cut-outs. The base forms couldn't be simpler, but layering and overlapping make new arcs and more intense colorations. For delicate effect use the snowflakes singly, or use overlapping in different colors for the same design. Use two colors when cutting out the same design. Do not make the snowflakes too large. With small leftover pieces, add tiny flakes.

If you desire double or triple snowflakes, glue the back of each one, placing it on top of the next desired color, let dry. Next glue the back of the last snowflake and gently place it on the silk. Be sure all corners and edges are covered with glue. I found using my finger to spread the glue the best instrument.

To work on an old piece of sheeting tacked to a board makes a good work piece. After each flake is glued, quickly pull it from the sheeting. The glue dries quickly and clean.

To make sunbursts, star rosettes, and even strips of shaded colors running diagonally overlapping one another is attractive. Circles made of strips can be done in the same way. Squares added on circles or vice versa are interesting. The more intricate the designs, the more attractive your panel will be.

To make a rosette, for instance: Take 3 or 4 squares of tissue paper each a different color. Fold diagonally, making a triangle. Fold in half, then again and then again. You will have a cone. Now draw scallops along the folded edges or simply cut free style with your scissors. Dotted lines on drawing indicate where you should cut. The shaded portion will be the rosette. Glue the roses down one at a time on the top of each other. Note the new color you have made in the middle.

[ILLUSTRATION: A triangular diagram showing fold lines and cutting patterns, with labels "cut away" and "open edges"]

918