[Vol50 | June | Magazine Page 470 | PDF Page 490]
[Title: Visiting Teacher Messages — Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants]

--- PAGE 469 (PDF page 489) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

of her subjects and moral crises are not unlike those of Twain. Howells, the pioneer and foster of the Realistic movement in the United States, writes of the average American home in manner and purpose not entirely unlike that of Sinclair Lewis. Carl Sandburg's impassioned love for the folk en masse is a later edition of Walt Whitman, both in form and content, and Robert Frost and Willa Cather are dominated by a restrained, classical style and concept of man in nature worthy of comparison to Henry David Thoreau.

Surfaces change, yes, in things and in that inner world which literature creates and sustains. As the United States has changed, so has her literature; were it not so the literature could not be true, and without integrity, nothing of value can either be created or survive. In America, as elsewhere, both in place as through time, her great writer-artists bring us to ourselves.

The year's lesson titles and objectives follow:

Lesson 41 — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience (1835-1910)

Objective: To recognize Mark Twain's moral ideals and conflicts which shaped his literary art and his greatness.

Lesson 42 — Huck Finn's Initiation to Truth

Objective: To understand and experience Huck's progression from innocence toward moral maturity.

Lesson 43 — The Quickening Spirit of Emily Dickinson (1830-1886)

Objective: To introduce ourselves to Emily Dickinson's mind and heart, first by entering her home, then her poetry.

Lesson 44 — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist (1837-1920)

Objective: To define and exemplify American Realism by studying the life and writings of its prime spokesman.

Lesson 45 — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic (1874-1963)

Objective: To discover Robert Frost through a sympathetic understanding of his poetry.

Lesson 46 — Willa Cather, Lover of Life (1874-1947)

Objective: To understand and enjoy the sustaining values of Willa Cather's world.

Lesson 47 — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist (1885-1951)

Objective: To study and evaluate middle-class United States of America during the 1920's as represented in the life and writings of Sinclair Lewis.

Lesson 48 — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer (1878-    )

Objective: To understand and enjoy Carl Sandburg's substantial contribution to the American tradition.

475

--- PAGE 470 (PDF page 490) ---
SOCIAL SCIENCE • Divine Law and Church Government

Church Government: Its Organization and Structure

PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1963-64

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

"THE Church is the body of believers, organized according to divine law. It is invested with the necessary rights, powers and authority to carry forward on earth the purposes of the Almighty Father as contained in his plan of salvation for his children on earth." (Wm. E. Berrett, ed., Program of the Church, 1937 ed., page 24).

In the various dispensations of time, God has instituted his government and offered his services to the human family. Having in mind the welfare of his children and being fully aware of the purpose of creation, he has revealed a system of government for his Church that would make possible peace on earth and good will among men.

As has been pointed out in previous lessons, divine law is the wisdom, counsel, and guidance of God, giving direction to man so that he may attain perfection.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God upon the earth. In it there is a fulness of the gospel. This means that all the advice, counsel, and direction (divine law) that God has revealed to man, to assist him in his quest for joy, happiness, and exaltation, have been restored.

In the wisdom of the Creator, the government of the Church is designed for the welfare and development of mankind. The Savior pointed out that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So with the government of the Church, it is so organized as to direct all the benefits of government to the growth and perfection of the governed. Divine law is communication from God through his servants, revealing the techniques of effective living, providing the pattern of life for the individual and the group that will produce happiness, progress, and exaltation.

The organization of the Church is without flaw. The imperfection of man, the human element, is the limiting factor in its operation. The effectiveness of the Latter-day Saint Church government is dependent upon the faithful, dedicated response of the members to lay leadership. The Church does not have a professional ministry, but every member serves for the love of service. The Priesthood directs, and the membership anticipates the opportunity of serving. Activity is the essence of religious conviction and the recognition of divine authority. The Priesthood gives authorized direction in the performance of Church callings.

476

--- PAGE 471 (PDF page 491) ---
In this series of lessons, we will become familiar with the structure of Church government. We will review each part and examine its function, at the same time being aware of the interrelationship of each part to the effectiveness of the government of the Church. The government of the Church is the Priesthood in action. The Priesthood is the power and the authority of God given to man for his enlightenment, righteous direction, and peaceful association.

We will clarify the distinction between Priesthood line of authority and ecclesiastical line of authority, showing the function and importance of each to Church organization. Each lesson explores a part of the structure of Church government, setting forth its function and relating it to a unified whole.

Lesson 8 — Priesthood and Church Government

Objective: To help the members of Relief Society understand that Church government is the Priesthood or the power of God in action.

Lesson 9 — The Organization of the Church, Its Purpose and Principles

Objective: To emphasize the divinity of the organization of the Church and the obligation this places on the membership of the Church.

Lesson 10 — Priesthood Quorums and Their Function

Objective: To acquaint Relief Society members with the importance of quorum organization and the obligation of quorum membership.

THREE PART
CHORAL MUSIC
FOR
SINGING MOTHERS

...... ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS
      EVENTIDE—Madsen .................. .20

...... COME YE BLESSED OF
      MY FATHER—Madsen .............. .20

...... GIVE YE YOUR BREAD TO
      YOUR POOR—Berlin ................ .25

...... GOSPEL GIVES
      UNBOUNDED
      STRENGTH—Schreiner ............. .30

...... HEAVENS ARE
      TELLING—Haydn ...................... .25

...... LET NOT YOUR
      SONG END—Cain .................... .25

...... LORD BLESS THEE AND
      KEEP THEE—Madsen ................. .20

...... LORD IS MY
      SHEPHERD—Smart .................. .20

...... LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson .. .22

...... O LOVE THAT WILT NOT
      LET ME GO—Schubert ............. .20

...... OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert ...... .20

...... OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane .25

Use this advertisement as your
order blank

Music Sent on Approval

DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah

Please send the music indicated
above.
□ On Approval  □ Charge
□ Money Enclosed

Name .................................................
Address ............................................
City and State .................................

[LOGO: Daynes Music Company with piano keyboard illustration]
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah

477

--- PAGE 472 (PDF page 492) ---
Lesson 11 — Quorum Relationship to Wards and Stakes
Objective: To clarify the working relationship of Priesthood quorums to the operation of Church government.

Lesson 12 — Church Courts (Councils of Justice), an Essential Part of Church Government
Objective: To help establish an appreciation for justice and mercy in the divine Church.

Lesson 13 — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government
Objective: To stress the importance of each one relating to the successful operation of Church government.

Lesson 14 — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church
Objective: To emphasize the evidence of divine influence in the structure and operation of Church government.

[ILLUSTRATION: cartoon character with hat holding papers]

You're treated so well... at ZS&L

says...
Zippy, the Zions Savings Bug,

Zions Savings & Loan offers premiums in service always

• Choice of savings plans
• Confidential loan service
• Street-floor safe deposit boxes
• Money orders costing less than at most other places
• Ample free parking

your savings earn a full 4½% current rate per year compounded semi-annually

ZIONS SAVINGS and LOAN ASSOCIATION

33 E. First South-Downtown
open Fridays 'til 6:30 p.m.

4901 South State-Murray
open Saturdays 'til Noon

Portland Rose Festival and Parade
Leaves June 12

Northwest, Canadian Rockies, Lake Louise & Banff Tour, etc.
Leaves June 22

Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour
Leaves July 24

Black Hills Passion Play Tour
Leaves August 17

ESTHER JAMES TOURS
460 7th Avenue
Salt Lake City 3, Utah
Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051

478