[Vol50 | May | Magazine Page 348 | PDF Page 366]
[Title: Brimstone]

--- PAGE 347 (PDF page 365) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman figure standing behind/embracing a globe of the Earth]

DURING the present session of the United States Congress, of one hundred Senators, two are women: Senator Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, of Maine, and Senator Maurine B. Neuberger, Democrat, of Oregon. Of 436 members of the House of Representatives, eleven are women: Charlotte T. Reid, Republican, Illinois; Martha W. Griffiths, Democrat, Michigan; Leonor Kretzer Sullivan, Democrat, Missouri; Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey; Edna F. Kelly, Democrat, New York; Katherine St. George, Republican, New York; Frances E. Bolton, Republican, Ohio; Edith Green, Democrat, Oregon; Julia B. Hansen, Democrat, Washington; Catherine May, Republican, Washington; Elizabeth Kee, Democrat, West Virginia.

REBECCA ROBISON, a Latter-day Saint musician, has been selected to play the viola in the Massachusetts All-State Symphony Orchestra. A student at Minnechaug High School, Miss Robison was chosen by a lengthy process of auditions from the outstanding school musicians of the State.

TAITZUMBIE DUPEA, a Paiute Indian woman, who has had parts in several Western movies, is now 112 years old. She expresses her philosophy of life as "Think right, do right, and don't worry."

IN the small principality of Monaco, where American-born Princess Grace, wife of ruler Prince Rainier, is First Lady, women voted in the February twenty-fifth parliamentary elections for the first time.

MISS HELEN HARRIS, a retired schoolteacher eighty-seven years old, was recently named by renowned cartoonist Herbert L. Block (Herblock) as his "Golden Koz" to success (the teacher who had helped him most during his lifetime). The two were honored in February at the Atlantic City, New Jersey, meeting of the American Association of School Administrators. The award stems from seven educational organizations. In her journalism classes, Miss Harris stressed good citizenship and the obligation of writers to learn actual truth and tell it.

349

--- PAGE 348 (PDF page 366) ---
Memories
and Mothers

Early Years Are a Mother's Glory
Leona Fetzer Wintch

WELLS of joy spring up everlastingly when we rear splendid children. But to have these satisfactions and garner sweet memories, we must truly love our children by going with them and guiding them during their morning of life so they may know the way.

Only two years ago our house bustled with the activity of four children. One by one they have begun to leave for distant places. It will not be long until we two, who began our home together, will look forlornly across the table at each other. With tenderness and affection, our eyes will search for the small-child drawings and the homemade I Love You valentines, discolored by time, but still tacked on the wall. It would be heaven to hear their voices or see their beautiful, young faces again. The tears will crowd our eyes, but they will not fall, because the feelings of joy and sadness are mixed.

There will be a desolate loneliness because our loved ones are absent, yet we know we would grieve if they always remained on our hearth. Christ would never have been our Savior if he had not left the Father. Our children, too, must go away from us to develop their capacities and realize self-fulfillment.

They are gone before we know they are leaving, and the miraculous, growing years are a dream all too soon. Let us cherish every happy moment during this springtime of life. The years of, "Oh, Mommy, come quick! The moon is on'full blast!" are measured, and are quick in passing. They will not even be a memory, if precious moments are left to others who rear our little ones. Tender tears, innocent adoration, and unique expressions cannot be recaptured. There will never be a happier time; these early years are a mother's glory.

350

--- PAGE 349 (PDF page 367) ---
Too Busy?    Annella Barnes

[ILLUSTRATION: Mother holding baby in chair]

HE'S just a little boy. Far too little to create much mischief. And yet — frequently the afternoon's patching has had to be put aside as I hurried to undo the mischief his busy little hands and feet had found — placing the books back on the shelf, wiping up a cup of water, coming back to my patching to find it well scattered. What's wrong with his toys, anyway? I wonder as I retrieve the overalls, scissors, thread, and thimble.

Now back to the sewing. No — he's too quiet. I hurry to find him once again. Ah, there he is, playing contentedly with — oh, no! Not my new dress pattern! Striving to control my exasperation, I reach down to gather up my precious pattern, now torn beyond recognition.

Two large brown eyes look up at me in smiling delight. How beautiful they are! Laying aside the really not-too-important pattern, I pick him up, and as we sit and rock together, memories carry me back to just a year ago when, in a hospital room, I had stood beside a large white bed holding a baby's tiny form, limp as though any feeble movement would be too much effort for so fragile a person. Then the nurse had carefully lifted him from the bed and carried him down the hall to the operating room. I sat down to wait, wondering, would this small boy ever live to smile? Would he ever hold anything in his fists? Would I see him take his first steps?

Yet, today, I have resented his trying out each of these talents and scolded him for it. He is young and thirsty for knowledge — knowledge not gained from a few toys long ago understood. Such an alert little boy cannot be expected to be content with the same blocks, the same little wagon, day after day.

Forgive me, little one, for being too busy to help you learn. And thank you, dear Lord, for one small boy with large smiling brown eyes and busy hands and busy feet, ever eager to learn. Surely thou hast an important work for this little one. Help me guide him in his quest for truths, and may I always remember this privilege which is mine.

351

--- PAGE 350 (PDF page 368) ---
So Long for Dreaming

Verda F. Welch

AS I ascended the steep stairs, I was glad there were so many of us visiting the old home that the girls had assigned me my childhood bedroom which I had shared with them once. And as I turned on the light and looked around I was even more grateful that so few things in the room had changed during the years. It is good to go back in time now and then.

The ceiling knelt gently to meet the east and west wall. There were windows in the north and south, opened wide in the summer to let in the twinkle of the stars, the songs of birds in the tall treetops, and the dances of the soft breezes.

As I lay in bed in the quiet darkness, the years rolled away, and I was a carefree child again, secure and happy.

Memories of Mama clung like sweet fragrance to almost everything in the room. On the floor was the linoleum I had watched her help Papa lay so painstakingly. There was nothing slipshod about Mama. She built to last. As she worked, she sang. I loved her folk songs as I loved her hymns. Sometimes she sang because she was happy, other times to camouflage her blues. When it was too late I remembered I had never told Mama I loved her singing. There were many things I forgot to tell her.

In the corner was a little girl's washstand with drawers which Mama had made and carefully painted. There was a beautifully mirrored little dresser which she had created from an old organ. Mama could have made them more easily with better tools, but no more perfect.

Against one wall was an old trunk, which had been hauled by wagon when Papa and Mama had come from Dixie to help colonize the Big Horn. But to me it was a treasure chest. No family crest or even pieces of eight, would have been cared for better than each carefully wrapped item Mama had placed within. She had many things on her mind, so she didn't always know exactly which bundle to unroll to find what she was looking for. I watched by her side, and hoped the needed item would be at the bottom so I would get to see as many things as possible.

"I know it's here somewhere," she would say, and it always was.

Important papers were kept there. I remember especially their marriage certificate, and the deed to our home. The latter had been threatened several times when the purchase of farms was considered and mortgage was whispered. But Mama kept the deed. It represented security. There was a beautiful oakleaf breastpin hammered from a silver dollar by a silversmith uncle, which Mama wore on special occasions. There was little money for jewelry in those days, but she would compensate for that dearth

352