[Vol50 | February | Magazine Page 130 | PDF Page 137]
[Title: Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

--- PAGE 129 (PDF page 136) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

North Sanpete Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Plans for Visit
to Salt Lake City, June 5, 1962

Seated, front row, left to right: Valene Johansen, Second Counselor; Louise B. Johansen, President; Ruth McKinney, First Counselor; Amy Ursenbach, Secretary-Treasurer.

Back row, standing, left to right: Pauline Rasmussen, social science class leader; Glenda Staker, literature class leader; Ruth Ericksen, Magazine representative; Ethel Ericksen, chorister; Rhoda Drage, organist; Ruby Hansen, work meeting leader.

Not present when the picture was taken were Ethel Mower, theology class leader, and Emma Evans, visiting teacher message leader.

Sister Johansen reports: "A day never to be forgotten was experienced June 5, 1962, by 500 Relief Society members of North Sanpete Stake when they boarded six chartered buses and several private cars bound for Salt Lake City, where they toured the Bee Hive House, Temple Square, and the Relief Society Building. At noon the group attended the Tabernacle organ recital. On the agenda at one P.M. were a dinner and program at the Relief Society Building, catered by Beth Carlton and Mildred Laxson of Fairview. Guest speakers were President Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Pearle M. Olsen, a General Board member, who was born and reared in Mount Pleasant, and while there served as ward and stake Relief Society president.

"The welcome was given by Louise B. Johansen and prayers by Nellie McAllister and Amy B. Ursenbach. Two violin solos were played by Irene Cannon Lloyd, a member of the General Board of Relief Society. The North Sanpete Stake Singing Mothers, directed by Ethel L. Ericksen, with Rhoda Drage as accompanist, sang 'One World,' and 'When Mothers Sing,' the last number being dedicated to the late Opal L. Hermansen, who directed the Singing Mothers for many years. Valene Johansen introduced the 'goal' for the stake for the year and the theme of the program: 'Every sister of your ward to become a member of Relief Society.' The three winners in the stake poetry contest on the theme "What My Relief Society Means to Me" were announced and the sisters read their poems: Pearle U. Winkler, first; Eda Anderson, second; and Ellis D. Coombs, third.

"Recognition was given the wards with the highest number of new members, and with the greatest increase in attendance, and gifts presented to their presidents: Louise Seely, Fourth Ward, Barbara Johansen, Second Ward, Geniel Watson, Spring City. The eldest and the youngest Relief Society members in attendance were honored: Margaret Menzies, eighty-two, and Jeanie Christensen, twenty. The table decorations were blue and gold flowers with miniature figures of old-fashioned girls. Little bluebirds held messages of love and cheer for our wonderful organization — Relief Society. Favors were small jars of yellow hand cream tied with blue ribbons."

131

--- PAGE 130 (PDF page 137) ---
FEBRUARY 1963

Wilford Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Presents "Fun Day"
May 18, 1962

Seated at the table, left to right: Helen Stringham, Grandview Second Ward; Alene Burrell, Wilford Second Ward.

Standing, left to right: Marie Hopkins, Imperial Ward; Alta Hathenbruck, Grandview Ward; Renee Paltner, Imperial Second Ward; Naomi Pond, Kenwood Ward; Faye Condie, Wilford Ward; Alice Karpowitz, Kenwood Second Ward.

Elna Hart Palmer, President, Wilford Stake, reports: "The Wilford Stake Relief Society took suggestions given by the General Board at Conference in 1961 and had a 'Fun Day.' The day began with a demonstration on floral arrangements, followed by a demonstration on hair styling. The stake board presented a skit on 'Work Day Behavior' and cleverly revealed how the work meeting lesson on manners have helped us this year. Each ward displayed items that had been completed on work meeting day, and some hobby items were shown.

"Immediately following lunch was served to over four hundred sisters, came the highlight of the day — a fashion show. Throughout the year a basic sewing class was taught to many of the sisters. Many of the dresses modeled were the result of this sewing instruction. We feel that much good was accomplished by this class. We intend to make this a yearly affair, and the next 'Fun Day' is already being planned. We intend to show items of interest from each lesson department. Our purpose is to reach the inactive sisters, and we feel that we are making progress in this direction."

European Mission, and West European Mission Singing Mothers Present
Music for the Servicemen's Conference, Berchtesgaden, Germany
November 6, 7, 8, 1962

Seated, left to right: Helen Chambers, chorister; Carolyn N. Brugger, Relief Society supervisor, European Mission; Sara Tanner of the West European Mission; Zina C. Y. Brown, wife of President Hugh B. Brown; Minnie P. Burton, of the European Mission; Maxine Hanks, of the British Mission.

Sister Brugger reports: "The sisters from the L. D. S. Servicemen's organization in Europe held an inspiring Relief Society gathering in Berchtesgaden, Germany, November 6, 7, 8, 1962. The Relief Society session of this conference was conducted by Carolyn N. Brugger, with the theme 'Fellowshipping through Relief Society' being carried out. Sherley Palmer, wife of Chaplain James Palmer in England, Thelma Petzer, from the Berlin Mission, and Grace Cullimore, from the Central British Mission gave informative talks to inspire the sisters in fellowshipping. Zina C. Y. Brown gave a spiritual talk on honoring the Priesthood and remaining strong in times of stress.

"This was a wonderful conference, with 150 sisters present for the Relief Society session. They came from all over Europe, with Germany, France, Britain, Scotland, Switzerland, Austria, and Italy being represented. One sister came from as far away as Morocco. Outlying posts were represented at the conference. The Singing Mothers sang in one general session and in the Relief Society session. These sisters from distant places came together and mingled their voices under the direction of Helen Chambers."

Utah Stake (Provo, Utah) Singing Mothers Furnish Music for Stake
Quarterly Conference, May 13, 1962

Standing at the left in the front center row, left to right: Edna H. Williams, Education Counselor; Nellie R. Mecham, President; Florence Britsch, Work Director Counselor; Ethel R. Lewis, chorister; Rayola Van Wagenen, organist.

Since this picture was taken, Florence Britsch has been released, and Clarice Sumpter sustained.

132

--- PAGE 131 (PDF page 138) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of women around a sewing machine, appears to be a sewing or crafts gathering]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group photo of women arranged in rows, appears to be a Relief Society meeting or gathering]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large choir or musical group arranged in tiered seating in what appears to be a chapel or meeting hall with organ pipes visible in the background]

--- PAGE 132 (PDF page 139) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH - Two women in dark dresses standing on either side of a framed landscape artwork]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group of women in white blouses arranged in rows around a piano, appears to be a choir]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group of older women arranged in multiple rows, appears to be a formal group portrait]