[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 226 | PDF Page 237]
[Title: Social Science — Priesthood and Church Government]

--- PAGE 225 (PDF page 236) ---
KEEP MY OWN

simplifying, of course, but in general, that's the idea."

Such a sickening realization robbed her of her appetite. She pushed her lunch away almost angrily. "He doesn't react to Ella like that."

"Ella's been with him from the beginning. And with all of that, his trust in Ella and Dick and me . . . the fact remains we haven't been able to teach him to speak."

"Then he could talk, if he wanted to?"

"No. It's a psychological block. He can't speak. Not until that block is removed. Some children develop a mental block against learning arithmetic or geography, perhaps because of an unpleasant association. Again, that's over-simplifying, but it's much the same thing."

"Maybe I had a mental block without knowing it," Irene smiled. "My aunt used to say I just didn't have any arithmetic sense."

THE gradual emergence of order could be seen only by those who had been working in the debris and confusion. As each room was thoroughly cleaned, it was closed up tightly against invading soil from other areas of the house.

When Irene first saw the sprawled heating system in the basement, she was appalled. "Dick, it looks like something out of the dark ages!" she cried.

He laughed. "It almost is. Someday we'll tear it all out and put in a modern gas furnace, but for now it will have to serve."

Granddad squinted up into the rafters at one of the octopus-like furnace arms snaking between them.

"It's about on its last legs, though," he said. "One of these days . . . whooom! She'll be gone."

"Until that day she'll have to do," Dick reiterated firmly.

It was a foolish notion, she knew, but Irene felt a deep personal animosity toward that furnace. She even had nightmares in which the entire apparatus took on life, reaching and stretching through its many eel-like arms and legs into every room in the house. She was certain that it would refuse to heat the house simply because she was living there. Dick and Granddad exchanged knowing looks about the peculiarities of expectant mothers when she refused to go downstairs near that furnace.

"I hope it goes 'whooom' in a hurry," she said with venom, "and I know my mind will be more at ease."

She covered the dining-room table with a thick mat of newspapers and a plastic tablecloth to protect the finish. Ella brought in two tubs, one filled with hot sudsy water, and the other with clear rinse water. Irene stood on the table herself in order to reach the chandelier and remove the prisms that dangled from thin wires on the frame.

"You ought not to be climbing around," Ella scolded.

"I'm perfectly all right, Ella. This table is so large it's almost like standing in the middle of the floor." She removed the prisms and handed them down one by one.

Ella dunked each one in the suds. She let it soak for a minute before she fished it out and rinsed it. "Just the same, it's better to be safe than

227

--- PAGE 226 (PDF page 237) ---
MARCH 1963

sorry. You're not supposed to reach or stretch, either."

"I'm really not. Look. The chandelier hangs so low I almost have to reach down from up here to get some of them off."

It was true, but Ella continued to grumble.

Granddad entered the dining room, with Davy in tow. "Well, now, what have we here?"

"Cleaning detail, Granddad!" Irene sang out. "Like to help?"

"You bet I would. I've just been waiting for the work to progress to this point. Always had a soft spot for this fixture. Here, Davy, take a cloth. Let's make these little dangles shine like diamonds set in stars."

They both polished industriously. Irene, looking down through the maze of gilt framework, was struck by the care that Davy employed in his task. He took genuine pride in each glittering orb, holding them up to the light to be sure that they were immaculate.

Ella's perpetual voice droned on, and Irene forced herself to listen. ". . . water's getting cold, and the electrician hasn't finished with the water heater. If we need any more, I'll have to heat it on the stove. Take all the time in the world to do the littlest jobs! If we worked as slowly as they do, we'd never have this place in decent condition. . . ."

THEY completed the task to Ella's accompaniment. When the last glittering prism was rehung in the last empty hook, Irene climbed down off the table and stood looking up into the tiers of crystal light drops. She recalled her

sour mood the first time she had seen the delicately ornate fixture, and felt a surge of joy that she had had a part in restoring its splendor.

She smiled as she remembered how she and Dick had made faces in fun at each other while he washed these windows on the outside and she polished them on the inside. Now the late-day summer sun streamed through them. Not a trace of dust deflected the sun's sparkle. Orbs and pendants of varying sizes on the chandelier trapped every stray beam, joyfully reflecting it over and over.

Irene felt the glow of pride in accomplishment. She felt that even if she didn't belong to the house, it was beginning to belong to her. Perhaps she would never know the unified feeling of belonging, but she was taking great pleasure in making the house reflect her, and in making a home for the others. It was an intangible feeling. She couldn't have expressed it if she had tried. She was glad, however, that it had come to her. She didn't want to be a stranger in Dick's and their baby's home.

Ella had carried one of the tubs away. When she returned, her dress and apron were wet. Sloppy hems slapped her legs with each step she took.

"Spilled it," she said. "All over . . . in that sawdust that carpenter's making in there. Wet sawdust . . . ugh. Nice mess to have to clean up. May as well empty the other one first, I'm as likely as not to spill it, too, the way things are going."

Irene laughed out loud. For a moment she was afraid Ella might take offense, but her bubbling hap-

228

--- PAGE 227 (PDF page 238) ---
KEEP MY OWN

piness spilled over in humor. How almost lost in the curved depths.
Ella took to regard the cabinet The drapes were drawn, and the
maker as "making sawdust" instead child had switched on a lamp that
of constructing much-needed cup- stood on the table next to his chair.
boards. Ella sniffed, then grinned, A circle of light rose from the lamp,
too. She tried to maintain her cross surrounding his head like a halo.
tone, but the grin infected it. The book Irene had given him was
"Seems like every time I sweep it opened on the arm of the chair. His
up, they make some more. If it chin rested in his hand as he read
isn't sawdust, it's plaster, or wire, or it. She loved him so much at that
a can of paint, or something just as instant that she nearly hurt with it.
bad. As if the dirt isn't bad enough." Unknowingly, Irene brushed
Davy had disappeared. Granddad against the door frame. Davy jumped
asked in mock concern, "Now where to his feet, a trapped, wild look in
did that scalawag go?" his eyes. The spell was broken. The
Ella answered, "Davy? Prob- lovely book fell unnoticed to the
ably to the library. He's been spend- floor, and lay there on the face of
ing most of his free time in there its pages.
lately." "I'm so glad you found the book,"
Irene glanced up. "The library?" Irene said. "I won't bother you
"He's a great one for reading." now, I see you were busy reading it.
Granddad pulled at his chin. "Most I'd love to read it with you some-
of those books are a bit deep for time. If you should want me to
him, though, I'm afraid." read it to you, bring it to me, and I
Irene broke away as they finished will. All right?"
clearing up. Granddad rolled the She expected no answer and got
newspapers into a cone that would none. Apprehension tied knots in
fit in the fireplace while Ella dried the pit of her stomach. In respect
the plastic before she put it away. to the mood she had shattered, to
The library door was ajar. It had the privacy she had invaded, she
been closed most of the time since turned and walked slowly away. She
its cleaning was finished. She hesi- left the boy standing by the chair.
tated, then with renewed resolve she The halo of light he had worn so
stepped inside. naturally only a moment before now
 shone futilely alone against the dark
DAVY sat in a deeply tufted dark grain of the leather chair.
leather chair, a small figure (To be continued)

I will strive to make each day a cheerful day. To have within my heart a desire
to forget any who might have wronged me and a prayer for those who have found
more thorns than roses along the pathway of life.
                                                           —Pauline Bell

229

--- PAGE 228 (PDF page 239) ---
Notes FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

South Idaho Falls Stake Harvest Fair
November 9, 1962

Alice Moss, stake Magazine representative, is seen at the right offering free copies of The Relief Society Magazine to guests who attended the harvest fair.

Fern C. McClellan, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that the table shown in the picture was designed to illustrate the many phases of subject material presented in the Magazine. "This fellowshipping program was sponsored jointly by the stake and ward Relief Society organizations. Beautiful exhibits of bazaar items were displayed, as well as tables depicting the different aspects of Relief Society: visiting teaching, social science, literature, theology, welfare, and the Magazine. An original presentation 'Mother Goes to School' stressed the enrichment received from Relief Society. Music was furnished by the Singing Mothers and guest artists. Refreshments were served. Of the 500 who attended, nearly one-third were not enrolled members of Relief Society. Many were of other faiths. It was a great thrill for us to be able to share Relief Society with these friends and neighbors."

Ammon Stake (Idaho) Inter-Faith Social
October 24, 1962

Left to right: Afton Godfrey, work meeting leader; Betty Stoddard, Work Director Counselor; Emma Jane Nelson, President; Virginia Garner, Education Counselor; Susette Budge, organist; Sharlene Blatter, literature class leader; Beverly Mercer, theology class leader; Beth Jacobs, social science class leader; Connie Fell, visiting teacher message leader; Violet Wakley, Magazine representative; Valene Heer, chorister; Renae Paxman, Secretary-Treasurer.

Sister Nelson reports: "With the stake house as its setting, four hundred women were present to enjoy our Inter-Faith Social with us. A lovely musical program was given, and a history of Relief Society, its purposes and activities, was presented also. Each ward arranged beautiful displays of its loveliest bazaar items, this handiwork being an outgrowth of the work meeting activities. In addition to these displays, each of the stake board members set up displays depicting the purposes and objectives of the lesson department. Light refreshments were served. We are very pleased with the outcome of our Inter-Faith Social. Women representing fifteen other religions were present, in addition to our own members, and we feel that much was accomplished towards showing others the greatness of Relief Society and making new friends with women of other faiths."

230