[Vol50 | November | Magazine Page 862 | PDF Page 897]
[Title: Literature — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic]

--- PAGE 861 (PDF page 896) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

that this Frostian statement is an enduring truth lies in Frost himself. Most fittingly he exemplifies the timeless qualities in which he places his trust, both as man and as poet. And, in complete independence of both well-wishers and scorners, he ignored contemporary literary patterns and fads as he carefully built his poems to contain the form and tone which he felt were true to themselves as poetry, as well as to the stony integrity of their maker.

"The land is always in my bones," wrote Frost. And, he might have added, so are poetry, puckish wit, and a sustained high regard for the simplicity of greatness as exemplified in his companions, Homer, Theocritus, Dante, Milton, and Shakespeare. He shared these masters in his stimulating talking and teaching which was frame to his body, as light to his mind, and hope to his soul.

INTRODUCING FROST

Descendant of nine generations of staunch New England folk, Robert Lee Frost was named in honor of General Robert E. Lee, his father William Frost's personal hero. Robert was born in San Francisco March 26, 1874, less than a decade after Lee's surrender at Appomattox.

When his father died he left a wife, two children, a life insurance policy with its last premium recently unpaid, and a request that he be buried in New England soil. His request was honored by his resourceful Scotch wife. Having no money nor near kin of her own, she took her children to Lawrence,

Massachusetts, where the grandfather, a foreman in the textile mills, reluctantly welcomed them ("We were the hole in the bucket"). Frost recalled as an adult). At once his mother put her excellent classical education to good use by becoming a teacher while Robert went to work in the mill, always carrying Shakespeare or Virgil in his back pocket to read during his lunch hour. After being co-valedictorian with his future wife and after seven years of odd jobs, Robert attended Dartmouth college for two months, but so disliked the methods and content of formal education that he quit. After his marriage, he attended Harvard University for two years before he abandoned all hope of ever getting an education and returned to farming and teaching, but really to writing poetry, his full, real love.

When his grandfather advanced the $1,800 to buy him a one-horse, oneman farm of thirty run-down acres, he said to young Frost, "I know what you're up to [he meant poetry]. Will you settle down if I give you a year to try this out?" Frost struck a great auctioneer's pose and dared him with, "Give me twenty, give me twenty!" And that is just what it took.

THE EMERGING POET

During his restless college years, Frost frequently took solitary walks in the woods, which disconcerted his classmates. "What do you do on your walks?" they asked. "I gnaw wood," Frost replied. Thus, the poet Frost ever felt the need to renew himself in solitude, that his inner voice might sing truly and that he might be alert to his own

863

--- PAGE 862 (PDF page 897) ---
"innerness" and record it. In Vermont he felt he was getting nowhere. He had published but a few poems and had no association with other poets or professional literary persons. Although at thirty-eight he was described by the State superintendent of schools as the best teacher in the State, Frost wanted to be the best poet. Staking everything on his dangerous experiment, Robert sold his farm in 1912 and moved his wife and four children to a peaceful farm not far from London, England. In England he met other young poets who believed in him, predicting the quiet but substantial success of his first slender book of poems A Boy's Will, which was published in London the following year. In 1914 his publication North of Boston was praised by eminent critics both in England and in the United States. In 1915 he risked the hazards of submarine attack to bring his family home to a new farm at Franconia, New Hampshire. Frost was already famous. From then until 1949, when his Complete Poems appeared, he published several books of poems, the four of which received the Pulitzer Prize for literary excellence, the only American to be so honored. In addition to being given almost forty honorary doctorates by distinguished universities in his own country and the British Isles, he was the only poet ever to have participated in the inauguration of the President of the United States. This occurred on January 20, 1961.

FROST, THE TEACHER

In 1915 his success as a poet became assured, and he still hoped to make his living solely from poetry; however, it became apparent that royalties from his book sales would not be enough.

It was in 1917 that President Alexander Meiklejohn of Amherst College took the daring step of making Robert Frost a full professor and the first Artist in Residence in any university — all without Frost's even having graduated from college. In addition to founding the Breadloaf School of English in 1920, Mr. Frost lived and lectured intermittently at Amherst, Michigan, Dartmouth, Harvard, and, before the exertion became too great, read his poems on the campuses of the great universities of the Nation. But whether lecturing to an audience or in the classroom, he was always a great teacher in action. Seeking always to influence and excite rather than to persuade, he defined himself as a "sort of poetic radiator."

Acting on his solid conviction that "courage is the human virtue that counts most" he had the regular textbooks stored in the basement while he led his students in the lifelong activity of discovering new relationships between books of Plato, Gibbon, and the myriad phases of life surrounding a growing boy. To be "daringly good" as a teacher, he strove to teach his students the supreme import of "two minimal things: taste and judgment," these being dependent upon imagination, initiative, enthusiasm, inspiration, and originality, first in the teacher, then by infection, in the students. A man of fire who vastly preferred an informal discussion in the front room of his home to stiff class sessions, he constantly

864

--- PAGE 863 (PDF page 898) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

forced his students to defend things as they are, and to question why a change wouldn't be better.

Gentle, kind, and understanding, nevertheless he was always careful not to let the routines of teaching submerge his untrammelled, poetic self. He preached as earnestly as he practiced. An English teacher has three prime duties: first, duty to self; second, duty to books; third, duty to students. For example, in several instances during his teaching career, Frost entered the classroom to find his desk piled high with required themes.

"Anything here anyone wants to keep?" They shook their heads "no." So I asked them again and they said "no" again.

"All right. If you don't value them enough to keep them, I don't value them enough to want to read them," and I threw them all into the wastepaer basket.

"I'm no perfunctory reader of perfunctory writing" (SARGEANT, ELIZABETH S.: Trial By Existence, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, page 71. Reprinted by permission of the publishers.)

Of such stuff are great teachers made, whether it be in 1912 or 1982.

FROST, THE CRAFTSMAN

For Frost, poetry was nothing if it was not true. He never wrote a poem which was not based on actual experience. "A poet must lean hard on facts, so hard, sometimes, that they hurt." Though generally credited with the ability to capture in his poems the actual speech of rural New England, Frost aimed at far more than merely mirroring actuality; for him the rhyme of phrase and sentence must have the "sound of sense." If the words rang right, the form then fit its contained subject-matter and the poem as an organic whole, "begins in delight and ends in wisdom."

FAVORITE POEMS

In June 1922, Frost returned to his Vermont farm after a long teaching session at the University of Michigan. In one of the great poetic experiences of his life, he stayed up all night composing his long philosophical poem, "New Hampshire." Stepping outside to stretch and greet the dawn, Frost wheeled back inside and in "one stroke of the pen" wrote one of the loveliest lyrics in the English language, a poem in which form and content seem perfectly suited to each other:

STOPPING BY WOODS ON A SNOWY EVENING

Whose woods these are I think I know.
His house is in the village though;
He will not see me stopping here
To watch his woods fill up with snow.

My little horse must think it queer
To stop without a farmhouse near
Between the woods and frozen lake
The darkest evening of the year.

He gives his harness bell a shake
To ask if there is some mistake.
The only other sound's the sweep
Of easy wind and downy flake.

The woods are lovely, dark and deep,
But I have promises to keep,
And miles to go before I sleep,
And miles to go before I sleep.
(Complete Poems of Robert Frost, page 275).

As do many of Frost's poems, this one exemplifies the classic graces

865

--- PAGE 864 (PDF page 899) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

which Frost esteemed: an easy gentleness, both of word and structure; the simplest of words and subject, all flawlessly contained within a traditional rhyme scheme and stanza pattern. Yet, at the poem's end, all we know for certain is that the poem is not merely about a momentary pause of horse and man in an empty wood before driving on. Frost believed in the great importance of permitting every person to get from a poem whatever he can, and that it is far more important to learn to enjoy a poem than it is to analyze and criticize it almost to pieces, until the magic which is poetry is bedraggled, if not destroyed.

Nor does the above poem relate to any specific region or folk. Though we may feel in our bones how completely Frost has absorbed the New England scene and idiom in his, rarely if ever do his characters speak in a peculiarly New England cracker-barrel dialect. He "speaks New Englandly" only to recall a subject incident or conversation, then, by giving it the soundsense and form which make it into poetry, he makes it speak universally, not regionally. What is more of one place, yet of no certain place than the poem he chose to be first in his Complete Poems? It appeals as strongly to a preschool child as to the city-bound adult longing for the pristine beauties of a country boyhood:

THE PASTURE

I'm going out to clean the pasture spring;
I'll only stop to rake the leaves away
(And wait to watch the water clear, I may);

I shan't be gone long. — You come too.

I'm going out to fetch the little calf
That's standing by the mother. It's so young,
It totters when she licks it with her tongue.

I shan't be gone long. — You come too.
(Ibid., page 1).

Though increasingly through the years Frost's growing concern was with the crushing impacts big cities, industrialization, science, mass communication and mass government, education and religion were exerting on himself and the people of his time, his "lover's quarrel with the world" was less the enduring Frost than his expressions of love and trust. "We love the things we love for what they are" represents him as do the poems which radiate such a love: "Tuft of Flowers" (text, page 826); "Death of the Hired Man" (page 827); "Mending Wall" (page 829); "Birches"; "The Road Not Taken" (page 831); "Two Look at Two"; "There are Roughly Zones" (page 832); "The Runaway"; and many many more. Nor should we forget that he is master of humor, and sometimes a rather grim irony, as seen in "Out, Out"; "Home Burial"; "Not to Keep"; "Fire and Ice"; and "Departmental."

Two of Frost's poems particularly deserve to be better known. The first is one of the very few poems Frost wrote which admits he has lived a city life along with many of us.

ACQUAINTED WITH THE NIGHT

I have been one acquainted with the night.
I have walked out in rain — and back in rain.
I have outwalked the furthest city light.

866