[Vol50 | October | Magazine Page 779 | PDF Page 810]
[Title: Visiting Teacher Message]

--- PAGE 778 (PDF page 809) ---
OCTOBER 1963

people not to leave the Lord, saying, "Is not he thy father . . . hath he not made thee, and established thee? . . . ask thy father, and he will show thee" (Deut. 32:6-7). Solomon expressed the same thought when he said, "In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths" (Prov. 3:6). Through the prophet Jeremiah the Lord said "Call unto me, and I will answer thee" (Jer. 33:3).

In his Sermon on the Mount the Lord Jesus Christ once more extended to his people the same glorious invitation, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matt. 7:7). And then the Lord added "For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? . . . If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?" (Matt. 7:8-11).

When the Savior organized his church among the Nephites on the American Continent, he emphasized this same counsel and invitation. (See 3 Nephi 14:7-8.) Then, to dramatize the importance of this counsel further, just prior to his ascension to heaven, the Savior again said, "whatsoever things ye shall ask the Father in my name shall be given unto you. Therefore, ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (3 Nephi 27:28-29).

Why is this counsel or invitation so important that the Lord has emphasized and reemphasized it so repeatedly?

One of the best answers to this question was given by Isaiah when he described some of the blessings the Lord has in store for those who ask and wait upon the Lord. He said, "Men have not heard . . . neither hath the eye seen . . . what he [the Lord] hath prepared for him that waiteth for him" (Is. 64:4). The apostle Paul restated this same promise in a letter to the Corinthians. He said, "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him" (1 Cor. 2:9). Wonderful blessings, blessings beyond our power to comprehend, are prepared by the Lord for us if we will conscientiously seek them. But, to seek them we must ask; to enter into the Lord's house of promise, we must knock. The apostle James told the early Christians, ". . . ye have not, because ye ask not" (James 4:2). However, these blessings do not come automatically. We must be deserving and we must ask in faith, "nothing wavering." (See James 1:6.) The Savior said, "all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive" (Matt. 21:22).

One famous author has set down four requirements necessary when asking for blessings from the Lord. He said, "Test your desire. Is it good for you? Are you ready for it now? Is it fair to all others concerned? Do you honestly feel it is according to God's will?" (ALLEN, CHARLES L., How to Get What You Want, page 79). If we can truly

780

--- PAGE 779 (PDF page 810) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

answer "yes" to these four questions, we can ask the Lord for our desires. But, we must ask him with full, unwavering faith, believing.

There is still another requirement if we are to receive the Lord's blessings. This requirement was emphasized in an experience shared by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery while they were working on the translation of The Book of Mormon. At one point in that work, Oliver, with the permission of the Prophet, attempted to translate but was unable to use the urim and thummim, and he and Joseph inquired of the Lord the reason. In answer, the Lord said, "Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me. But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right" (D & C 9:7-8).

As indicated in this experience, the Lord also expects us to work and to exercise our own intelligence and initiative in order to deserve his blessings.

Surely, the Lord has prepared for us bounteous blessings. He pleads with us to live so as to deserve these blessings and, deserving them, he counsels us: "ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." But let us be wise in that which we request. Let us be sure that we have done what the Lord requires, asking in faith — fully believing — and the Lord will open the doors of his rich blessings and shower them upon us.

WORK MEETING

The Latter-day Saint Home

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Discussion 12 — Planning the Use of Resources

Virginia F. Cutler

For Second Meeting, January 1964

Objective: To investigate methods of managing money, to determine their relative merits, and to adopt a method consistent with family goals.

IN today's world one is forced to be awake and on the job every minute as he assumes the responsibility of managing his own affairs, if he and his family are to make the most of their resources.

Since women have a longer life span than men and are likely to have entire responsibility of their affairs some day, it is important that they learn to use money wisely.

Each family should have a plan

781

--- PAGE 780 (PDF page 811) ---
OCTOBER 1963

for the use of its resources, some training in method, and a clear understanding of family goals. Training in how to make decisions about the use of money can begin for a child as soon as he is aware of the difference in value of coins. He is then old enough to join the family planning session. By virtue of the fact that he is a member of the family and shares in the work of the home, he has the right to share in the money resources. His share will be small to begin with, but he will have the chance to choose for himself how he will spend it. For extra work, a child may receive extra compensation and learn what it means to work for pay. Gradually he can learn to save for items of special importance to him. The only way he can learn to use money is to have some to use, and the only way to learn to save is to have a plan for the saving.

Parents set the savings goals of a mission or college education, but to a small child these goals are too remote to have much meaning. His participation in the savings plan for them will give meaning and motivate their realization. However, he learns through participation in family planning the great satisfactions to be gained through planned giving. He will know the joy of adding his bit to the building of a chapel, and share in the feeling of family security in setting aside the Lord's tenth. He will appreciate the feeling of security the payment of tithes can bring. The contributions planned for community relief will help him become aware of humanity's needs.

Grandparents, too, can be helpful in training children in the use of money. They can provide the children with extra work opportunities and suggest ways in which the money earned might be used. If grandmother has more time than mother, she might be the one to teach the child to buy fabric for a pinafore and help her make it. Grandfather might provide a small garden plot for a boy in which to grow vegetables, help him buy the seed, plant and cultivate the garden, and advise him on how to find a buyer for the vegetables when ready for the table.

Each family plan will be different, even though basic needs may be the same - housing, food, clothing, etc. How, then, shall we go about making a plan that will fit our family needs and enable us to make wise use of our resources?

First, let us discover what we are actually doing with our money by keeping a record of our expenditures for a month. Envelopes might be labeled food, rent, clothing, health (doctor, dentist, medicines), tithes and offerings, personal care, and other items. Receipts might be put in the envelopes as purchases are made or bills are paid. There would be ready access to the figures which could be tallied up at the end of the month. After listing these items for two or three months, the figures could be used as a base for charting money goals and making plans for the rest of the year.

The checkbook method is another easy way to keep record of expenditures, and this method has the advantage of providing evidence for income tax purposes. It requires having enough money in the bank to do business.

As you make up your record of

782

--- PAGE 781 (PDF page 812) ---
expenditures, you will be made aware of your actual spending practices, and where some seem unwise you will wish to plan changes. For example, if a teenage daughter wanted a new dress and her spending record showed a disproportionate amount spent on personal care, she would readily see where she could plan the use of her money to bring her greater satisfaction.

Real savings are possible when one sees the mistakes that have been made and ideas develop for the better use of resources.

Planning together as a family is a character-building activity which brings spiritual strength to the family and helps keep them from thinking only of the materialistic values of this world.

*Refer to "The Family Dollar," by Robert Daines in the April, 1963, Improvement Era for further information about this method.

LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 44 — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist (1837-1920)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 674-695)

For Third Meeting, January 1964

Objective: To define and exemplify American Realism by studying the life and writings of its prime spokesman.

"REMEMBER that wherever life is simplest and purest and kindest, that is the highest civilization." This statement fairly represents William Dean Howells, one of the kindest and gentlest and most affectionate of America's influential writers. For more than sixty years the dominant passion of his life was to defend and enlarge such a philosophy. Nonetheless, he became outmoded and forgotten many years before his death in 1920. Our own generation cannot forget him since we have

never really known his name. Only a few teachers and literary historians remember him, and then, usually, as a literary scapegoat, scorned alike by the once-popular Romantics of the earlier nineteenth century and the "liberated" modern writers for whom he paved the way.

Yet he eminently deserves to be respected, read, and enjoyed. Affectionately known in his decades of literary and critical predominance as the Dean of American Letters, Mr. Howells spoke out courageously

783