[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 930 | PDF Page 969]
[Title: Theology]

--- PAGE 929 (PDF page 968) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

great benefits to the world which result from the Book of Mormon and the revelations which the Lord has seen fit in His infinite wisdom to grant unto us for our salvation, and for the salvation of all that will believe, were duly appreciated (DHC 1:235-236).

Following this statement the Prophet wrote that Section 70 was received upon his inquiry.

Section 70

Several elders were named in verse 1 of Section 70, and their responsibilities regarding the revelations to be printed were outlined in verses 2 through 9. In addition to taking care of the revelations, they were to see to their printing and distribution. The books were to be sold, and the surplus was to be placed in the hands of the bishop and placed in the Lord's storehouse to be consecrated to the faithful inhabitants of Zion.

In the minutes of the conference it was recorded that four of the brethren named in this revelation — Oliver Cowdery, Martin Harris, John Whitmer, Sidney Rigdon — had, from the beginning, labored with the Prophet; consequently, they, with the families of several others, according to the laws of the Church, were worthy of an inheritance from the bishop in Zion. (DHC. I.236.)

Stewardships

The brethren mentioned in Section 70 were told that their obligation in caring for the revelations, as given above, was referred to as a stewardship. As stewards, these elders were to discharge their responsibilities to the letter. The importance of caring for their stewardship in this manner is thus indicated:

And an account of this stewardship will I require of them in the day of judgment (D & C 70:4).

The application of this truth, when applied to all members of the Church or what the Lord has given them, is discussed by President Brigham Young, in these words:

... What is our duty? It is our duty to improve upon every blessing the Lord gives to us. If He gives us land, improve it; if He gives us the privilege of building houses, improve it ... if He gives us the privilege of gathering together, let us sanctify ourselves. In His providence He has called the Latter-day Saints from the world, has gathered them from other nations, and given them a place upon the earth. Is this a blessing? Yes, one of the greatest the people can enjoy, to be free from the wickedness of the wicked, from the calamities and clamor of the world. By this blessing we can show to our Father in Heaven that we are faithful stewards; and more, it is a blessing to have the privilege of handing back to Him that which He has put in our possession, and not say it is ours, until He shall say it is from the heavens (Journal of Discourses 2:304-305).

All of us are stewards over the things of this earth which are ours legally, but, in fact, they are the Lord's. (Mosiah 2:20-6.) An accounting of what we do with these blessings, including offices in the Church, will be required of us in the day of judgment. During the period when Section 70 was given and for some time later, all members of the Church were under obligation to abide by the law of consecration. This exempted no one. (D & C 70:10-11.) Under this law, all were to be equal, but the equality was not of a dead-level nature. Each was to receive according to his needs and circumstances. (Ibid., 14:18; 42:32; 51:3.)

931

--- PAGE 930 (PDF page 969) ---
DECEMBER 1963

Worthy of His Hire

When the Lord instructed his Seventy, who were to precede him into the villages where he would preach, he counseled them to receive such assistance as was needful from those who would offer it. (Luke 10:1-8.) Jesus taught the Seventy that "the labourer is worthy of his hire" (verse 7). This truth has been given in this dispensation, and under the law as stated, those who work for the welfare of their fellow Church members are to receive in accordance with their needs. This law not only applies to those appointed to administer in the temporal but also in the spiritual concerns of the Church. (D & C 70:12-13.) It will be recalled that soon after the Church was organized, a revelation was received giving the three branches of the Church the opportunity to provide material support to the Prophet Joseph Smith, since he was required to tend to his duties as the Prophet. (Ibid., 24:3-4.) Remuneration for services or temporal assistance has been given to certain groups at different times during this dispensation. (DHC 1:220.) What may be termed the law of remuneration was also revealed in Section 42, verses 70 through 73, and mentioned in 43:13. Where individuals must of their full time to accomplish their callings which would not allow them to make a livelihood otherwise, a just remuneration is allowed. In the main, however, the male members of the Church function in the Priesthood without benefit of monetary help. All Church members are expected to contribute of their time, talents, and material possessions for

the advancement of the kingdom of God. The spiritual rewards of such service are known to all those who have thus participated.

Section 72

The Prophet and Sidney Rigdon undertook a mission as commanded. (Section 71.) While in Kirtland, Ohio, several elders and members raised questions which apparently required the Lord's answer; whereupon Section 72 was received. (DHC 1:230.)

When the Prophet had arrived in Kirtland almost one year before this, the Lord revealed that Edward Partridge should be appointed as the bishop unto the Church. (D & C 41:9-10.) Not long after that Bishop Partridge and others, including Joseph Smith, went to western Missouri, where the bishop was to take up his duties under the law of consecration. (Ibid., 57:7, 14-15.) The temporal and spiritual needs of the Church in Kirtland were such that the Lord appointed a bishop in Kirtland. The appointee was Newel K. Whitney. (Ibid., 72:2, 8.) An interesting story of his call is related by his grandson, Orson F. Whitney, an apostle of this dispensation:

Newel K. Whitney, staggering under the weight of the responsibility that was about to be placed upon him, said to the Prophet: "Brother Joseph, I can't see a Bishop in myself."

No; but God could see it in him. He was a natural Bishop — a first class man of affairs. Probably no other incumbent of that important office, the Presiding Bishopric, to which he eventually attained, has been better qualified for it than Newel K. Whitney. But he could not see it, and he shrank from the responsibility. The Prophet answered: "Go and ask the Lord about it." And Newel

932

--- PAGE 931 (PDF page 970) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

did ask the Lord, and he heard a voice from heaven say: "Thy strength is in me." That was enough. He accepted the office, and served in it faithfully to the end of his days — a period of eighteen years (Conference Report, June 1919, pp. 47-48).

The duties of Bishop Whitney were set forth as: (1) to receive an accounting of the stewardships of the elders in that area; (2) to keep the Lord's storehouse; (3) to receive funds; (4) to administer to the wants of the elders; (5) to render an accounting to Bishop Partridge in Zion of those who were unable to pay for what they received of the Church. (D & C 72:5-13.)

Although Bishop Whitney was required to look after the stewardships of the elders in that area, yet each steward would have to give an accounting of his own stewardship, in time and in eternity. (Ibid., verse 3.) Agreeable to the law that obedience brings forth the blessings of heaven (Ibid., 130:20-21), we are told that,

... he who is faithful and wise in time is accounted worthy to inherit the mansions prepared for him of my Father (Ibid., 72:4).

An Application

As one looks at the foregoing list of responsibilities of the bishop in Kirtland and thinks of their application to the present-day ward bishop, he sees the same or similar duties to this office. Verse 12 of Section 72 states that the bishop is to take care of the poor and needy. The calling of the bishop was well explained by President Joseph F. Smith as not only taking care of the poor, the sick and the afflicted, but also these duties:

... It is also the duty of these presiding officers [bishopric] in the Church to look after the spiritual welfare of the people, to see that they are living moral, pure and upright lives, that they are faithful in the discharge of their duties as Latter-day Saints, that they are honest in their dealings with one another, and with all the world. It is their business to see that spiritual light exists in their hearts, and that the people under their presidency and direction are living the lives of Saints, as far as it is possible for men and women in the mortal body, beset by the weaknesses and imperfections of mankind, can be Saints. Great responsibility rests upon these, and we have to work in the Church, in this relation, a vast corps of efficient men who are laboring diligently for the welfare of mankind (Conference Report, October 1904, page 3).

Conclusion of Section 72

Further information was given about the operation of the law of consecration with special emphasis upon the necessity for members of the Church in Kirtland, going to Zion, to take with them a certificate showing that they were worthy members. (D & C 72:16-26.) The same procedure is followed today in what is known as the membership certificate.

The conclusion of this revelation suggests that wise stewards are to follow the counsel given in the revelation. (Ibid., verses 25-26.) In the ultimate sense, the member who follows the words of the Lord will place the interests of the Church first. Brigham Young's life of dedication to the cause of Zion is a splendid example of the faithful steward. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 428.) Do we individually meet the requirements of the wise steward?

933

--- PAGE 932 (PDF page 971) ---
DECEMBER 1963

What of the Past?

Section 72 was the last revelation received during the year 1831. It was the most fruitful year in terms of the number of revelations received as shown in the "Chronological Order of Contents" in the forepart of each copy of the Doctrine and Covenants.

A review of the sections will indicate that, due to the growth of the Church during the latter part of 1830 and the year 1831, many problems arose in this fast-growing Church. At the beginning of the year, the Lord took cognizance of the poverty of the saints and promised that he would give his "law" which, if lived, would bring temporal relief to the citizens of his kingdom and would prepare them for spiritual unity. This would result in the blessing of each person enjoying equally the bounties of the earth. (Section 38.) Officers were added to the Church, such as the High Priests of the Melchizedek Priesthood; the bishop, the presiding officer of the Aaronic Priesthood; and a Church Historian. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 205; D & C, Sections 41, 72, and 47, respectively.) The promised "law" (Section 42) included commandments regarding (1) preaching the gospel; (2) moral conduct; (3) consecration; (4) administration to the sick; (5) sundry duties; (6) remuneration for services; and (7) the law concerning transgressors.

The fundamental principle that only one man may receive revelation for the Church, while others may receive individual guidance was also given. (Section 43.) There followed

the great revelation on signs which would precede the Lord's second coming and the events associated with that coming. (Sections 43 and 45.)

A series of revelations contains the keys against being deceived, for the benefit of Church members of 1831 and in subsequent years. These sections include counsel on the benefits accruing to members because of receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, with the many gifts that strengthen one against deception. (Section 46.) Due to the presence of a sect known as the Shaking Quakers (Lesson 34, Relief Society Magazine, August 1961) to whom the Lord directed missionary work, the saints were given enlightenment on the purpose of the earth, the necessity of marriage, the keys against false Christs and other impostors, with the ultimate movement of the Church to the Rocky Mountain area. (Section 49.) A lesson is learned in Section 50 when manifestations of false spirits seek to deceive the unwary. Direction is provided to test false teachings out of the Church as well as in it. (Section 52.)

In counsel given to individuals who sought for guidance, there are some universal truths appreciated which point up these three facts: (1) those who seek the Lord early will find rich benefits that prepare them for a full and long life here and for the blessings of eternity (Section 54); (2) exaltation is earned by enduring to the end through constancy in living the commandments (Section 53); (3) to take up one's cross involves a large number of commitments by

934