[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 24 | PDF Page 27]
[Title: Award Winners]

--- PAGE 23 (PDF page 26) ---
Miranda Snow Walton was born in Wyoming and has resided for several years in El Monte, California. She is a third-generation Church member and has served in all phases of Church work open to women. Poetry has always been an interest in her life, and she was named the outstanding poet of Wyoming in 1943. Her poems have been widely published, and she is a fifth-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, having received third prize in 1956, third prize in 1946, second prize in 1948, first prize in 1950, and first prize again in 1962. She now has a book of poems entitled For Lovers Only ready for publication. Her poems have brought much joy and comfort to her family and to her many friends and fellow-poets.

Mrs. Walton has three children: Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens), Jack, and Claude Walton. She has been an invalid for several years, and confined to a wheel chair. [Note: Mrs. Walton passed away in El Monte, California, November 12, 1962, several weeks after she had received notification that she had won first prize in the contest.]

Roxana Farnsworth Hase is a third-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, having received the second prize in 1953 and third prize in 1957. She was born in Manti, Utah, and educated in Manti and Salt Lake City, Utah. She was graduated from the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City and has been a registered nurse for forty-three years. She married Grover Hase in 1922. He died in 1955, leaving her with three children. There are ten grandchildren. After her husband's death, Mrs. Hase went back to nursing and was head nurse at the L.D.S. Hospital in Salt Lake City for many years, and was later Assistant Chief Evening Supervisor at the Veterans Hospital.

Her book of poems Delicious Lumps has been widely circulated, and she has been national Poet Laureate for the Colonial Dames of the Seventeenth Century. She has been counselor and president in ward Relief Societies and a Sunday School teacher for many years. She is a member of the National League of American Pen Women, the National Writers Club, and other literary organizations.

Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, attended the University of Utah for three years and taught school for two years. She began her writing in college and has published stories, articles, and poetry. Her work has appeared in the Deseret News, the Salt Lake Tribune, the Improvement Era, The Relief Society Magazine, and other publications.

She has won the Deseret News Christmas Poetry Contest; second place in the Utah State Fine Arts Poetry Contest; several poetry awards from the League of Utah Writers and the Utah State Poetry Society. She has been a winner six times in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, having won the first prize three times. She is represented in four poetry anthologies.

Mrs. Roberts is the wife of L. Paul Roberts, a Salt Lake City business man. They have two married daughters and six grandchildren.

Edith Larson is a third-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, having won the third prize in 1955, and second prize in 1956. She lives in Manton, Michigan.

"I am a native of Minnesota," she tells us, "a long-time resident of Michigan, and a former resident of Fountain Green, Utah. I majored in journalism at Northwestern University and have been studying and practicing the art in my spare time ever since. When I retire from teaching four years from now, I expect to devote all my time to writing, baby sitting for my grandchildren, and working in the branch which we hope will soon be organized here. Manton and Cadillac, combined in the fall of 1962, gave us enough sisters to have our own Relief Society."

25

--- PAGE 24 (PDF page 27) ---
Award Winners

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1962 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1962.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Edith Larson of Manton, Michigan, for her story "The Tender Kiss." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Christie Lund Coles, Provo, Utah, for her story "The Home." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her story "Stranger at Nazareth."

The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1963.

Forty-nine stories were entered in the contest for 1962, including submissions from Canada, England, Germany, and Australia.

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate.

A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the Short Story Committee of the General Board and to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories.

Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest

26

--- PAGE 25 (PDF page 28) ---
First Prize-Winning Story
Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest

The
Tender
Kiss

Edith Larson

[PHOTOGRAPH]

AT first Nancy could find no flaw in John's announcement of his decision. He had looked her in the eyes, smiled naturally, and then, when she threw her arms around his neck and kissed him with all the relief and joy of her sudden release from worry, he had returned her kiss tenderly.

Furthermore, he had made the announcement in a normal manner as soon as he came home from the office. He had come right through to the kitchen and said, "Hi, Nance. Don't bother to pack. I've told J. C. we're staying here."

In spite of her flare of joy, Nancy had questioned him thoroughly. She knew she couldn't bear it if, in later years, John should feel that her love and need for her family had stood in the way of his career.

"But I'm not giving up all opportunity for advancement," John had reassured her. "J. C. told me this morning that if I honestly wasn't interested in the Hawaiian opening, there would be a similar one for me here within a year. What's a year in a lifetime?"

And then he had given her the tender kiss and gone out to play with Terry and the twins in the sandpile.

But now, the next morning, as she kneaded the dough for the bread John so dearly loved, she could no longer push back the questions she didn't want to ask. Why, in the midst of her own happiness, should she have nagging doubts of John's? What difference did it make whether he became Stoughton Brothers' youngest department head in Hawaii or in Idaho? The promotion would further his career equally well in either place. Surely J. C. realized there was no difference. Why had he insisted on holding the Hawaiian job open another week instead of accepting John's decision as final?

27

--- PAGE 26 (PDF page 29) ---
JANUARY 1963

John was right — he was only thirty now. And the benefits of staying here were legion. There was this house, a wedding gift from her folks. It had been built just the way she wanted it. When the Hawaiian job had seemed like an opportunity not to be missed, John himself had hesitated over giving up the house.

But even more important, there was her family. Her life, except for the four years at college, had been spent in this valley, which had been the family seat since pioneer days. She was the youngest — ten years the youngest of eight children, the only one of whom had left the valley permanently. By rights, she should be spoiled, but John said she wasn't, in spite of the nice little things her family were always doing for her — like her sister Linda taking Terry and the twins off her hands this morning so she could wash and bake without their constant interruptions.

Of course Linda thought she was packing, too. Why hadn't she told Linda of John's new decision? As usual her sister had come in like a whirlwind and gone the same way; but, if Nancy had shouted her good news, Linda would have stopped — at least long enough to hug and kiss her.

NANCY deftly shaped the dough into loaves and laid each in its place in the neat row of shining bread tins. "Why am I baking bread in the hottest month of the summer?" she wondered. She always did in winter, but was doing

A short wait wouldn't hurt him — it now some sort of penance, an admission of guilt? But John had made his own decision. She hadn't influenced it.

Perhaps she had been a wee bit slow about starting to pack. Just the thought of moving anywhere out of range of her wonderful family curled her heart into a tight ball. After her first dismay, though, she had tried not to show John how deeply she dreaded the prospective break. But of course he had known. He loved the family, too—had, in fact, adopted them in place of the one he had never known. But still, her people couldn't hold the place in his life they held in hers. She could scarcely imagine a social gathering not tied in with the family. Even her Church life was built around them, though Dad was no longer the bishop. She could hardly imagine trying to rear the three little ones she already had and having another baby six months from now without the help so many aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and grandparents gladly furnished.

But she had intended to go to Hawaii as a good wife should — go with fear in her heart, but no protest on her lips. And she would have done it, too—she knew she would have — if John hadn't turned the offer down himself. Then why couldn't she be whole-heartedly glad the way she wanted to be? Why wasn't she singing as she reloaded the washer with colored clothes? Why couldn't she forget how thrilled John had been at the Hawaiian job prospect before he began to count the cost? Last night, he

28