[Vol50 | May | Magazine Page 371 | PDF Page 389]
[Title: Non]

--- PAGE 370 (PDF page 388) ---
MAY 1963

surprise from his pocket was not forthcoming on this unusual day. Later, Dick would remember and regret this small oversight. Actually, Davy accepted it quite easily as another portion of this mystifying day.

AS they were helping Irene to the car, Ella turned to Dick and said ominously, "Babies have been born in cars on the way to hospitals, Dick. Are you sure you don't want me to come along? I could. . . ."

"There's no need, Aunt Ella, I'm sure," Dick replied. "The doctor said it could be hours."

Irene rolled down the window of the car. "Where's Davy?"

"Davy?" Dick looked about. "I haven't seen him since I got home."

"I've got to see him, to say goodbye," Irene cried. "He's been so left out. . . ."

They heard a tapping on one of the upstairs windows then. Looking up, they saw Davy. He was in the nursery. He lifted his hand in a little wave, and his face boasted a grin that was the closest thing to a normal child's laughter that Irene had ever seen him touch. Her heart contracted. She blew kisses to him through the window as they drove away. His laugh remained glued to his lips until he had faded from her sight.

GRANDDAD and Ella sat on the terrace waiting until it was Davy's bedtime. He didn't want to go to bed, but Ella gave him his bath and marched him to his room. When she returned to the terrace the chill of an autumn night had settled. Granddad rose. "We'd better wait inside. It's cold here."

In the kitchen, they lapsed into a companionable quiet. Outside, a couple of remaining summer crickets sang in desperation, recognizing the advent of winter. The smell of burning fall leaves permeated the air that wafted in the windows. The house rested.

Ella halfway dozed. Granddad kept awake by reading. It was close to four o'clock in the morning when the insistent twang of the telephone jerked them into awareness. Granddad answered the demand of the ring.

"Hello. . . . Yes, Dick. . . . Yes. . . . What was the trouble? . . . I see. . . . Oh, yes . . . well, well. It certainly is. . . . Everything's all right now? Irene resting? Good, good. . . . He's in bed. I won't guarantee he's asleep. . . . Yes, I will. . . . I'll tell her. She's right here . . . of course, of course. . . . Drive carefully on the way home. Goodbye."

Ella had stood close to him, straining to hear. Her handkerchief was a twisted ball in her hands.

"It is a girl," Granddad told her, "over six pounds."

"What went wrong? Didn't you say there was some trouble?"

"There was a complication. . . ." Ella's hands were shaking. "Complication?"

"The baby had a little lung trouble. Dick said the left lung sort of stuck . . . refused to inflate. They gave her oxygen at once, inflated it artificially. She's fine now. Dick said the doctor says it's not uncommon. Just a situation that needed the equipment and knowhow of a hospital and its staff . . . or the baby could have died."

374

--- PAGE 371 (PDF page 389) ---
KEEP MY OWN

Ella's face was working. She was exhausted by the long night of waiting. It was all she could do to restrain her fears.

"Here, now," Granddad said kindly, "don't cry. Dick says everything's fine now. The baby's fine, Irene's fine. They're going to name her Kathy Ella, for Dick's mother, and for you."

It was too much. Ella burst into tears. With her apron pressed against her face, she ran upstairs.

Granddad remained downstairs, waiting for Dick.

THE yellow-gray film of dawn was lifting reluctantly when Dick's car pulled into the drive. Granddad rose from where he still sat in the kitchen, and made his way out the side door to greet his grandson.

He was astounded to see Davy, still clad in his pajamas, running exuberantly out of the house ahead of him. The child almost tore open the car door and looked inside. Then he looked at Dick. His lower lip trembled. Dick had betrayed him. He had taken Irene away, and he had come home without the baby and without Irene as well.

Dick reached toward the child, but Davy pulled away and started to run toward the house.

"Wait, Davy, wait," Dick called after him.

Granddad caught him. "Davy, that's no way to act. Were you looking for Irene and the baby? She's going to stay in the hospital for a few days to rest. The baby will stay there with her. She won't be gone very long. Come now, Dick wants to tell you about the baby."

The appeal was too great. Davy turned in Granddad's arms and looked at his brother. Dick grinned in that one-sided way he had, and took a bag of peanuts from his pocket. "Come on, fella," he said gently, "Irene especially wanted me to tell you about the baby."

Davy went into his arms.

At the kitchen table, Davy secreted the nuts in his pajama pocket for further enjoyment. Granddad had made hot chocolate, and Davy liked that better than peanuts, so the nuts could wait. He sat on Dick's lap with a large mug of steaming, rich, brown liquid in his hands. He had three marshmallows on top of it, and each time he drank some of it, a white marshmallow mustache on his upper lip increased in size.

Dick said, "We've got a little girl, Davy. She's no bigger than a minute. Remember that trout that Granddad caught on the Fourth of July? About the same size as that."

Davy's eyes were round with wonder. Dick went on, "She has lots of hair. Blond hair . . . ash blond like yours, Davy . . . ." Davy squirmed with pleasure. . . . "And she's probably going to have eyes as dark as that cocoa."

DAVY peered into the cocoa container. He knew what Dick meant. Eyes like Irene's. Warm and soft and loving. Davy nestled closer to Dick, remembering Irene's eyes.

"We're going to name her Kathy. Kathy Ella Spencer. Do you like that?"

375

--- PAGE 372 (PDF page 390) ---
MAY 1963

Davy thought about it. Then that elfin grin washed over his face. He nodded.

Granddad asked, as Davy concentrated on the drink in his mug, "Any more trouble breathing?"

"Not a bit. They'll keep her under observation for a day or so, but after that initial scare, everything went smoothly."

"Is Irene pleased? She never said whether she really wanted a boy or a girl."

Dick's face mellowed at the mention of his wife. "She's thrilled. She really didn't care which we got.

When she heard it was a girl, she said to tell you that now you've got your spice, Granddad . . . whatever that means. Then she said she hoped Davy would be happy, too."

They looked at Davy. His empty mug rested in both hands in his lap. He had fallen asleep on Dick's shoulder, evidence that he, too, hadn't slept much the night before. The sticky mustache covered his upper lip. Below that white strip, his mouth turned upwards. The corners were, it seemed, permanently settled in an angelic smile.

(To be concluded)

[ILLUSTRATION]

Last Bell

Margery S. Stewart

Laughter erupts from
The schoolhouse in
Bursts of boys, in winds
Of children snatching
Last leaves of afternoon.
Feet make a joyous demolishment
Of silence.
Children run
Under my hands,
Separate tempests.
We are discarded suddenly,
Globe, pointer, blackboard,
And I, the teacher,
To gather dust until morning.

376

--- PAGE 373 (PDF page 391) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Mary Lee Myers and Henrietta W. Larsen—
"Sewing Sisters"

MARY Lee Wilson Myers and Henrietta McCloy Larsen, of the Highland Ward in Alpine Stake, are friends who enjoy their home sewing and handwork together, and are devoted members of Relief Society. "Stitches taken together have a double meaning," they say, and their friendship has deepened over the years. Their favorite hobbies are crocheting and quiltmaking. They have designed original patterns for quilt blocks, as well as making many quilts in patchwork, wedding ring, star designs, and other patterns.

Mrs. Myers was the first Primary president in Highland Ward, and has worked in Relief Society for many years, having been a visiting teacher "almost always." She is a practical nurse and an excellent seamstress. She has made many lovely wedding gowns. Mother of five children, she now has seventeen grandchildren and twenty-five great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild.

Mrs. Larsen has worked in Relief Society since 1915, serving in many capacities of leadership. She gave to the Highland Ward the volumes of The Relief Society Magazine back to 1914. She loves genealogical work and has made pedigree charts for 200 ancestors, and has completed thirteen scrapbooks. She also assisted in compiling the ward genealogy book. Since coming to Highland Ward she has made more than 200 quilts. Three of her five children are living, and she has five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

371