[Vol50 | April | Magazine Page 276 | PDF Page 291]
[Title: It at First]

--- PAGE 275 (PDF page 290) ---
IF AT FIRST

really was going to have one of those nervous breakdowns she was always threatening to have, and said, "Why do you want to do that?"

Dad looked a little bit uneasy and also a bit undecided about what to do or say before he said, "There's no reason to learn to drive. Either Tom or I can take you where you want to go."

"You've been real good about taking me places, I'll admit, and living where we do, some of my friends can pick me up on their way to town, but the more I think of it, lots of them aren't the best of drivers, either, and I've decided I want to be independent."

Dad spoke up to say that, with all the accidents there were and the careless drivers like Thelma, maybe it was best not to have too many of the family driving.

"Warren, the more I think of it, I might have been killed yesterday. When I remember those lovely tomatoes bruised and broken all over the road, I think I have no alternative, I've just got to make the step."

Tom smiled and said, "Gee, Mom, you act like it's just real easy or something. After all you've never even driven the tractor or anything."

"Now don't try to stop me before I even start. Remember what Emerson said, 'Anything you persist in doing. . . .'"

Tom interrupted with a soft little laugh, but I could see, by the way Mamma looked, that she was determined to try it, and I guess the rest of the family saw it, too, because they soon quit trying to discourage her and talked about something else.

Mamma hurried us a little so that

she could get her work finished as soon as possible. She said that Aunt Betty was coming at ten to give her a driving lesson, so with something as definite as that, no one made much comment.

WHEN Aunt Betty arrived Dad and Tom were out in the field working, so she just parked her car in the shade, backed our car out of the garage and, with Mamma at her side, began explaining about the different levers, knobs, buttons, and such. Then they headed down the road, with Aunt Betty still at the wheel and Mamma watching carefully everything she did.

They went up and down the road time after time, and Jerry and Christine waved and called, but Mamma didn't seem to take any notice of them.

When I saw them coming again and spotted Mamma in the driver's seat, I cautioned the kids that they weren't to make one sound and make her nervous. She didn't go very fast, but she kept right on the road and seemed to be doing fine, and I felt proud of her. Here, with only one lesson, she was already driving a car!

After awhile Mamma drove into the yard and, with Aunt Betty's help, she stopped the car. The first lesson was over. Mamma looked shaky and upset when she got out of the car and seemed to be doubting if it had been such a good idea to try. Aunt Betty was offering encouragement, "Don't worry about it — you did fine for your first time."

It wasn't until they were in the house starting dinner that Martha

277

--- PAGE 276 (PDF page 291) ---
APRIL 1963

noticed the dent in the right hand fender. Not a big, squashy, rumpled dent, but a big noticeable dent, and I began feeling sorry Mamma had tried such a thing.

I made sure that I was outside when Dad and Tom came in to dinner. Not that I was going to tattle on Mamma, but I knew they'd notice it without any help. They weren't blind.

Tom saw it first, whistled a sort of low wolf-call whistle and said, "Boy, things just aren't going to be the same around here again."

Dad bent down, examined it and, shaking his head, said, "Maybe Jim Porter can hammer it out and do a touch-up job on it. I'd hate to buy a whole new fender this soon."

Tom looked at it again and then toward the house.

"It might be best to wait until she's through learning and try to get everything taken care of at once. It would be a shame to fix the fender maybe six, seven times — might be cheaper to just wait and buy a new one at that."

I don't know what they had planned to say to Mamma, but she handled it real fine when she met them at the door. "I see you've noticed my handiwork. Well, there's just one thing I want everybody around this house to understand. If I recall what's happened in the past, I have quit a few dents and scratches and bumps coming before I catch up with you two, so let's not fret about it and let the dinner get cold."

When I thought about what she had said I decided she was right. The old car had been battle-scarred when Dad traded it in last month. But I saw, too, that Mamma hardly touched her favorite casserole, and I knew that she felt real bad about putting the first dent in the new car.

The rest of the day Mamma debated about what to do. Perhaps she should forget it, perhaps she was as stupid as Thelma about driving a car. I thought she was going to talk herself into forgetting the idea for sure, but when Aunt Betty tried to show how nice it would be to jump in the car and go to meetings, sales, and such by herself, she said she'd think it over again.

NEXT day Mamma announced that Pearl Healy down the road had suggested she practice in one of the fields.

Dad considered a minute, then said she could go in the grain stubble back of the house. Mamma went to answer the phone.

Tom speculated, "Dad and I will be up in the north field — you kids can stay by the house — the animals are all penned in — she's got five acres in that piece, so how could anything possibly happen?"

The rest of us didn't think it was so funny, but Tom just liked to kid about things.

Dad drove the car out to the field and went to haul hay.

Part of the time we leaned on the fence and watched Mamma. She would go down the length of the field, make her signals, turn one way or the other, just as if she was on a busy highway. Then she decided to practice backing. She started out fine. Then she was going in circles. Big circles, little circles, middle-sized circles. Just circles, circles, circles, and I could tell by the look on her face that she didn't know just what

278

--- PAGE 277 (PDF page 292) ---
to do. I began wondering if she would keep at it until she ran out of gas, but finally she stopped and just laid her head back on the seat and rested for awhile.

Next day she practiced some more, and then I had to get the tractor and pull her out of the ditch.

That's right! There was only one ditch in the whole field, right along the top and, like Tom said, five whole acres to dive in, but somehow Mamma had managed to do the impossible, and she couldn't get out.

We got the tractor and the car both back where they belonged before Dad and Tom got home for dinner, and I warned the kids not to say a word. Mamma probably would have told Dad about it herself, but Tom Sikes came along to talk over some business with him and stayed for dinner.

Mamma was really discouraged by now and, as we did the dishes, I asked her to tell me the rest of the words that Emerson had said. She looked sort of dreamy-eyed for a minute, then she said, with a little smile on her face, "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed, but that our power to do has increased." She looked sad then as she shook her head, "But I'm afraid that it doesn't apply to driving automobiles." She stopped washing the dishes and just let her hands rest on the sides of the yellow plastic dishpan, then she began to smile, "You know, Lilly, Emerson also said something else that might be well for me to think of now, 'Do the thing and thou shalt have the power. If you cannot do it, do it and then you can.'"

A few days later Aunt Betty came again and sat beside Mamma as she went up the road and down the road. When they returned there were no scratches, bumps, or dents. I hadn't had to get the tractor out. Mamma was smiling, Aunt Betty was smiling, and I was sure that everything had gone fine. I was beginning to feel encouraged. But I was too early!

Next day Mamma needed a pattern for the costumes the twins were to wear in the Harvest Festival and decided there was no need to get Dad in from work to take her to get it. She would drive down to Mildred Yates' and get it herself.

She was gone only an hour or so, but when she came in the house she was crying. She went right to her room and shut the door. I wondered if she had killed somebody or wrecked the car, but on investigation the car looked fine. I was debating about whether to go get Dad or what to do when she came out. Her eyes were still red, and she was still upset, but she told me what was wrong. Mamma had received a ticket!

When she showed it to Dad, he looked at it, put his arm around her shoulder, and asked, "What did you do, Hon?"

"I didn't do anything. They were having a road blockade, and I didn't dare turn around and leave when the policeman held up his hand, so I just stopped, and he asked to see my driver's license. I tried to explain that I'm just learning and he said maybe the judge would take that into consideration."

279

--- PAGE 278 (PDF page 293) ---
APRIL 1963

I thought she would start to cry again, but her lip just quivered and she blew her nose. . . . Golly, Mamma was really getting the experiences since she decided to try this new venture. Here in about a week, besides everything else, she had gone in a ditch, dented the fender, and become a criminal. What would she do next?

UNTIL she thought of the driving idea, Mamma had always read stories to us in the late afternoon, but not any more. The only reading she did now was in the little driving book. She would study what it said and go over and over each page, trying to pound in her head what it meant so that she could pass the exam.

The day that she went to pass the written test and get a learner's licence, we were all worried that maybe Mamma wouldn't remember what was in the book, but she passed fine, and I reminded her that Emerson had been right.

Two weeks later she and Dad left for the city. Today Mamma would take her driving test.

When they came back Dad was driving. No amount of talking would convince Mamma that she would ever pass or for that matter ever drive again. She announced that the whole idea had been bad from the start, and that if anybody called her a quitter that was fine, because she would agree with them. She said the roads around our place weren't so bad but in the city, with all that traffic, it had scared her silly, and that the cross-looking officer made her knees shake just to think of him.

She didn't touch the wheel again, and when even Aunt Betty failed to persuade her to try, we knew she meant it. She explained that when she saw so many, many cars coming toward her she felt like just hiding her head and that she was still too scared to pass even slow old tractors ahead of her.

We tried to forget that she had ever started to drive and perhaps it would have ended there, but we had an emergency!

Tom had gone on an outing for the day, and Dad got his hand caught in the bailer as he was repairing it. It was just one of those things that happen for no good reason, but all the same it happened. Dad couldn't think of driving, but he could tell Mamma what to do. She must drive him to the doctor in the city, and there was no time to waste. I thought Mamma might faint, she's squeamish about blood, but between us we got a bandage on his hand. As we started to town, I sat in the front seat between them in case I was needed.

When Mamma looked like she was getting worried, Dad just encouraged her on. She passed other cars coming toward us without hiding her head. She even passed a truck that poked along ahead of us. Mamma did herself proud.

Dad said, "You did just fine, doll. But if you don't go get a license tomorrow, I'll make you ride with Thelma Perkins every place you go."

Mamma was smiling happily as she said, "No need to threaten, Warren, I think you're right, just as right as — well, just as right as Emerson."

280