[Vol50 | April | Magazine Page 254 | PDF Page 269]
[Title: Learning for Living Today — The Story of Kee-Vee-Wah-Cha (Lucy King)]

--- PAGE 253 (PDF page 268) ---
The Story of Kee-Vee-Wah-Cha (Lucy King)

[ILLUSTRATION: Desert scene with saguaro cacti]

FOUR years ago on the Fort McDowell Apache Reservation, I spent a lovely May afternoon on the Verde River bank in the mesquite shade listening as Sister Lucy King told the story of her long and eventful life. Dora Ahawheata's skillful interpretation bridged our communication gap. For three hours the breezy words born in wide and open spaces found their way into English to paint a picture of days and ways now gone. A few days later we returned to Sister King and my English rendition was translated into her native tongue. Back and forth she rocked, chuckling delightedly. Occasionally, she could contain her thoughts no longer and commented pointedly.

"She is pleased," Dora Ahawheata interpreted. "She says that you have put the thoughts of her heart upon paper. She asks if she may have copies for all her children, that they may have a record of the way of things in her lifetime."

Here then is the life of Kee-Vee-Wah-Cha, now called Lucy King, the oldest member of the Fort McDowell Branch of the Maricopa Stake of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

THE heart of Arizona was the homeland of my people. It must be in legend time that God created the Yavapai for this land between Clarkdale and Prescott. Here my people dwelt in peace and plenty. There was no white man on the face of Arizona, none.

Here in Yavapai-land my grandparents dwelt, here the brave Ray-vah wed Hah-dee, and to them were born my brothers, William Eddie and Owl Tail, and my sisters, Kee-eve-ja and Bahk-see who later was called Mary Stacy.

Then to Prescott and Camp Verde came white soldiers in covered wagons and on horse. They encircled my people. Men, women, and children were encompassed round about. By force were they abducted from the land of the Yavapai. By the strangers were they taken to live among the San Carlos Apaches on land given them by the white man's chief. And as time passed they were no longer known as Yavapai, but were called by a white man's error Mojave-Apache.

The white men sought to capture Geronimo, an Apache chief. My father, Ray-vah, joined the other Yavapai braves who served as scouts for the white men. The scouts were well paid. The government fed us well. Here at San Carlos was I born and called Kee-vee-wah-cha, because

255

--- PAGE 254 (PDF page 269) ---
APRIL 1963

the sound of it and the look of me pleased my mother.
Then Ray-yah, my father, began to look very old. Gray-white was his hair. In my fifth year he sickened and died.

IN those days the white man determined to teach his ways to our young people. There was no school closer than Grand Junction, Colorado. That place was far from our campfires. Only the brave were glad to go.
When I was six years old, old enough to be taken from my family for white man's training, my mother began to fear the loss of her baby, for I was the last child she bore. She was certain I would sicken and die if I were taken from her care.
Each day she prepared food and water for me to carry into the hills where my sisters and I cowered silently all day, listening for the sound of the white policeman who looked for all school-age children who did not report for education. As twilight came we would scurry home to supper and safety for the night, only to spend another day as fear-frozen quail hiding from the enemy.
Each Saturday, when my mother went for her family food ration, the Government agent studied the family card and asked if she had any children of school age. My mother had no children who should learn white man's ways. And so it was that I have never learned to read or write or speak the white man's tongue. Nor did any of my mother's children go to school. We "escaped" the white men who policed the reservation.

Sometime that year my mother, Hah-dee, took a second husband into our tepee. He was called Jah-pu which means Shorty. He was a kind man.
Those were good days. All winter long the fire burned in our tepee. As we wove baskets my mother told the legends of our people. When summer brings its creeping, crawling life it is not good to tell the ancient legends. The telling is a winter thing, to be enjoyed when canvas is pulled close to shield the brush tepee from wind and rain.
In metates we ground the corn fine and started each day with mush, drinking a brew of crushed dried redberries sweetened with mescale. We lunched on stew or Indian squash cooked with meat or fried in meat drippings. Supper was a cold meal, finishing the day's food.

WHEN summer days ripened the prickly pear we teen-age girls slung special high baskets upon our backs, woven during the legend-listening time. Each carried a specially shaped stick for harvesting the fruit of the prickly pear cactus. We filled our baskets and took them to a brush-bed prepared in a shady place. Here we took other pieces of brush and rolled back and forth the fruit we had emptied on the brush-bed. When the stickers were all rolled off, we put the fruit back into the baskets and took them home to be eaten as apples are eaten.
None of us ate as we gathered fruit or berries. Nor did the young men eat of the meat they killed to bring back to camp. Each ate of another's kill. All was shared by

256

--- PAGE 255 (PDF page 270) ---
LEARNING FOR LIVING TODAY

the entire people. To eat of one's own gathering or hunting was to become selfish and lazy. This we were taught early. We believed our efforts must be for the good of all.

When I was nearly eighteen my parents chose a young man, Hugo Bah-nah-bah. Arrangements were made for our marriage as was our custom. That first year my mother visited me often in my tepee. She spoke much of her loneliness. Then my first girl-child was born and I called her Mabel.

Not long afterward an Apache, Justin Head, killed five men. One of them was my stepfather Jah-pu. Now Hah-dee could stand her loneliness no longer. She urged me, and I took my daughter with me, returning to my mother's tepee. Mabel was a year old.

When the child was three years old I met Ralph King and love came to me. We were married and came to make our home at Fort McDowell. A year later my daughter Lola was born. A few years later Nina was born. The girls grew into beautiful young women. Mabel died the first year of her marriage. Lola has given me four grandchildren. Nina and her husband Frank Smith have given me five.

HERE beside the Verde River which flows from the mountain springs not far from Jerome have I lived most of my life. By this Indian river flowing from the heart of Yavapai-land I have waited for knowledge.

Though the white men irrigate their land with Indian water, this is all right. We do not know the ways of farming and our tribal council preserves our privacy when others would lease the fertile land. But because white men have harnessed Indian water something good has come to us.

John and Myra Dodson came to my home with Dora Ahawheata to make their words clear to me. Over a year's Tuesday nights they came to talk with me of the ancient ones, the Lamanites, and of the commandments of our Father God. Always I have feared water, but at last I knew that there was no other way to please God, and I was baptized in water warm as my own skin, in the Spanish Ward font. That was seven years ago.

I never knew anything until Brother and Sister Dodson and Dora Ahawheata invited me to go with them to Church. I told them I didn't know how to go. After they kept coming to my house there was an illustration that thrilled me. They spoke of a straight road going toward the light. They showed me the way to walk in the light. They taught me that God wants us to walk in the light, and we please him when we try to live his way.

Sisters who live far away come and bring food to me. Brothers came a long way to build a house for me when my tepee burned. The white brothers and sisters have made my life good.

I know this is the true way. I will always be strong and stand fast on my own feet, in the "Way of Light."

One of the English phrases Sister King uses is "I love you," which she learned from her dear friend, Roberta Flake Clayton, who was her first Relief Society president.

257

--- PAGE 256 (PDF page 271) ---
A Load of HAY

Ilene H. Kingsbury

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman in apron and dress standing by wooden gate]

ONE could tell it was the season of the hay. Clumps of lucerne balanced along the center of the road where they had toppled from successive loads. A gentle wind wafted them about, pretending they were old sagebrush.

A woman stood by her cedar post gate. As she had been there for quite some time, looking at the road, motionless, one was led to question such leisure. Certainly there must be something for her to do within her house. She would have been the first to admit that work awaited her—six children brought that. However, for this morning all else must wait while she stood sentinel erect at her gate ready to make a decision of deep import, then give a command, and wait to see whether it would be obeyed.

Every few minutes she glanced down the road in the direction of the outer fields which surrounded the town. She expected something of great importance to arrive from that direction. She was awaiting a load of hay and three boys on top of it.

258