[Vol50 | August | Magazine Page 622 | PDF Page 645]
[Title: Visiting Teacher Messages — "Wherefrom, If Ye Believe Me..."]

--- PAGE 621 (PDF page 644) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

The ancient psalmist also advises us, "This is the day which the Lord hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it" (Psalms 118:24).

Our application of these thoughts consists in strengthening our beliefs so that they become real motivators of action. Let us ask ourselves, do we really have faith that Jesus is our Lord and Savior? Do we really have faith in his teachings? If we do we will do the things he has told us to do.

We will today perform those little acts of neighborly kindnesses which should be done today, but which we so often postpone. We will today overcome those little personal weaknesses and habits which we are always going to overcome but which we never quite seem to accomplish. We will today express gratitude and appreciation for those deeds of kindness and thoughtfulness performed to us and for us by others.

In The Book of Mormon, the Prophet Samuel the Lamanite told of the predicament in which the people of his time found themselves because they had procrastinated the day of their salvation until it was everlastingly too late. They had sought happiness too much in worldly material things, and had failed each day, through postponement, to overcome and repent of their weaknesses and imperfections. They had failed to perform those acts of kindness which are the essence of the Savior's teachings. Samuel told the people that their days of probation were past and their exaltation lost because of their procrastination. (See Helaman 13.)

Surely the counsel given to us in this scripture in The Doctrine and Covenants 64:25 is both timely and pertinent. Today is the day of our salvation. If we are truly wise we will heed the Lord and believe him, and do the things he instructs us while it is yet today.

WORK MEETING

The Latter-day Saint Home

(A Course Expected to be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Discussion 10: Planning for the Future

Dr. Virginia F. Cutler

For Second Meeting, November 1963

Objective: To examine long-time family goals and plan for a training program consistent with them.

DID you ever hear the statement that Mormonism is based on history? This is an observation of an historian from Southeast Asia who started analyzing the gospel plan. "Why, it goes back even before the beginning of the world!" said he, and we could add, "Yes, and it con-

623

--- PAGE 622 (PDF page 645) ---
AUGUST 1963

tinues on through eternity, and each one of us has a part in the long-time plan."

It is well to see our earthly experience in this historic perspective and to be conscious of the fact that our stay here is relatively short but extremely significant. "This is the time of testing and training and preparation for greater responsibilities. One way to look at it is to divide the possible life span of 100 years into five periods. It takes at least twenty years to become prepared to assume the responsibilities of parenthood. A second twenty is needed for accumulating — accumulating a family and possessions to enhance family living. Twenty years are then required for launching the offspring and helping them to stand on their own feet. It then takes twenty years for recovery, and another twenty for rediscovery.* It is easier to plan for the future if you see your life in units with definite responsibilities and assignments for each unit.

Then it is well to make some predictions. Prayer and thoughtful meditation are important in this. Predict your own future, and don't be modest. We are here to get the most from our earthly experience and learn to be of service to others. Don't shortchange yourself. Be in tune for inspiration and make your plan reach the ultimate; then all you have to do is work to bring it about. Of course, you must learn to be flexible so that modifications can be made as unforeseen circum-

*Discussion leader might prepare five charts and list some of the major responsibilities for each twenty-year period.

624

stances arise, and you must learn to be patient and remember that it takes a century to raise an oak. Winds and storms and dry seasons will come, but, as the old adage goes, "Good timbers do not grow in ease. The stronger wind, the stronger trees."

Now examine your predictions or lifetime goals. As parents are you looking toward baptism and confirmation for each child? Are you planning for auxiliary and Priesthood training? Does your plan include missionary work and temple marriages? What are your educational objectives? What kind of home do you want? What about developing special skills and aptitudes? What special services do you want to render for your fellow men? In what way do you hope to leave the world better than you found it?

You may smile at all this planning and say, "Why, if I do all this, I'm writing my own obituary!" And that is exactly right; you are seeing the end from the beginning and writing your own obituary in everything that you do today and tomorrow and until the years are gone.

You ask, "Does each individual make his own plan, or does the family as a whole make the plan?" Both are necessary. The husband and the wife work together in a way that will bring the greatest development for each individual as well as strengthen the bond of togetherness. Children share in planning as they become mature enough to participate, and, eventually, each will be able to help with the family plan and also be able to begin making his own plan.

--- PAGE 623 (PDF page 646) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Learning to plan and to carry through the plan is a process of development and requires working together as a team. Anyone can learn to do this. During courtship the process begins by thinking in terms of "our" instead of "my," and gradually the direction for the first twenty years of living and sharing together becomes clear. From then on, following tested rules of "teamship" will facilitate progress. Each family can set up its own rules, but here are some suggestions:

1. No major decision will be made until all the facts are in and examined to see advantages and disadvantages of this action or that.

2. Once a decision is made, the team will pull together with all its might to accomplish the objective.

3. When mistakes are made, there is no blaming one or the other, but there is a reappraisal of the whole situation, and a new direction is charted.

4. The role of each team member is determined on the basis of special interests, talents, and abilities as well as upon the needs for certain jobs to be done.

Step-by-step training and disciplining to see work plans carried through to completion provide a sound approach to making the plans for the future come true.

Note: Refer to "Values Become You," The Improvement Era, April 1963, for other suggestions on training.

LITERATURE • America's Literature

THE LAST HUNDRED YEARS

Lesson 42 — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 617-651)

For Third Meeting, November 1963

Objective: To understand and experience Huck's progression from innocence toward moral maturity.

IN 1876, the year The Adventures of Tom Sawyer was published, Mark Twain began writing what he intended to be its sequel. When the book finally appeared eight years later, in 1885, its identity in Twain's eyes had not changed, since the title page read, "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Tom Sawyer's Comrade)." But within itself the book had changed a great deal. In the first section of the novel, even though Huck is allowed to tell the story in the far more intimate and "real" first person "I," Samuel Langhorne Clemens is definitely the controlling author. It is in the large, rich center section of the book when Huck is entirely free of Tom, the restraints of "civilization," and in-

625

--- PAGE 624 (PDF page 647) ---
AUGUST 1963

deed the restraints of Mark Twain himself, at least on the surface level, that its sensitive, large and vigorous heart surges and swells the novel into its unquestioned greatness and vitality.

Geppetto's Pinocchio, Huck miraculously turns himself from a rather inconsequential stage prop into a "real live boy." Once Huck found himself created and alive on the page, almost literally he wrenched the pen from Twain's fingers and wrote his own story himself.

Twain never seemed to realize the significance of what had happened. His 1876 burst of initial creative energy took him through chapter XVI; then, after at least three years' hesitation, during which his deep well of the subconscious flowed full once more, he continued writing; but now Huck himself was fully aware of his own identity, the moral dilemma which faced him, and how he would resolve it. This informed sureness of the great middle section never seemed to impress Twain to any recorded degree, for he felt his greatest work was his documented, wooden Joan of Arc, which he wrote more than ten years later.

The novel Huckleberry Finn is very loosely organized. It consists of a series of episodes or adventures which happen to Huck and Nigger Jim. The two strongest unifying elements are Huckleberry Finn, who tells the story, and the Mississippi River, which symbolizes the peace and freedom which Huck and Nigger Jim seek, at the same time providing the physical means for escaping from one adventure to the next.

HUCK'S "AMERICAN LANGUAGE"

The major source of this novel's power is its extremely successful "illusion of reality," its ability to make the reader become Huck by absorbing Huck's world through his eyes and ears and, most importantly, through his untrammeled conscience and sense of values. The miracle of Huck's creation is the spontaneous zest for life which Twain has caught through his use of words alone. Huck is so vital, so throbbing with life, that we become him. Through the magic pronoun "I" we are transmitted out of our own present selves and "popped" inside Huck's skin. From inside Huck we hear through his ears, peep out through his eyes, and above all feel ourselves through his mouth.

Yet it is not merely the pronoun "I" which creates this sense of reality. Twain endeavored to make his fiction an exact transcript of life, and it is what and how the "I" speaks that makes the character of Huck so authentic.

The following account of a child's loneliness as he fights to maintain his own identity under a deluge of attacks from that incomprehensible world which is dominated by adults, rings as true in its tone as in its revelations of the patterns of Huck's mind. Miss Watson, "a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on," is attempting to "sivilize" the homeless waif for his own good.

... Miss Watson would say, "Don't put your feet up there, Huckleberry"; and "Don't scrunch up like that, Huckleberry — set up straight"; and pretty soon she would say, "Don't gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry — why don't you try

626