[Vol50 | October | Magazine Page 721 | PDF Page 752]
[Title: Frontispiece / From Near and Far]

--- PAGE 720 (PDF page 751) ---
From Near and Far

The beautiful lithographed covers of the Magazine are wonderful. The June 1963 issue, with its picture of the Salem Pond, brought joy to my heart, because that is the pond I grew up with. That pond is a delight to the people of the town and all who visit it. Claire Noall's pictures of Norway were a specialty to me. My parents were both born there, and their children were reared with stories about the beauties of their native land.
—Bessie Iverson Jenkins
Salt Lake City, Utah

I enjoy the Magazine and make use of many of the ideas presented in it. I followed the ideas given in the article "Let's Have a Bake Party" (by Mary S. Kemp in the March issue), and gave a party for my five-year-old daughter. The children were delighted with the idea, and the parents thought it was the cleverest idea they had ever heard of. Thanks so much for the idea.
—Mrs. Ernestine Sanford
Socorro, New Mexico

I have been a member of the Church since last November, but only just started to take the Magazine. How thrilled I was when I discovered the Sydney Stake, Parramatta Ward picture in the Magazine (July 1963). My eldest daughter, now almost four, was born in the Parramatta Hospital, and my husband and I and our two daughters hope to return to Sydney within the next two years. No doubt we shall be meeting the sisters whose picture was in the Magazine, for we shall be hoping to live in Parramatta.
—Mrs. Viv Jackson
Haney
British Columbia

I like The Relief Society Magazine very much, especially the lovely poetry, and I appreciate the opportunity of receiving the Magazine.
—Mrs. Bessie Williams
Winston, Oregon

The Relief Society Magazine is truly grand and holds a wealth of knowledge to suit all members. In the June issue, I especially enjoyed "Norway — A Road By the Sea," by Claire Noall. Having traveled there three years ago with my husband, the article had great appeal to me. I liked all the artwork in the Magazine, and the article on growing African Violets, by Irene Dunford was practical and beautiful.
—Olive Hingston
Taranaki, New Zealand

Congratulations on your beautiful, modern July number. I have found the colorful cover of the pioneers at South Pass most interesting. The fine family sermon; the sketch of my great-uncle, President John Taylor; the picture of the handcart; the fresh, life-like stories; the musical poems; the sewing, cooking, and cultural articles all combine to inspire and improve our lives.
—Mary Porter Ober
Alhambra, California

Congratulations on the Fiftieth Anniversary of The Relief Society Magazine. May I say that our Magazine is one of the finest. The story "Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd (serial beginning in July 1963) brings the Hawaiian people back to my mind. The Near and Far page gives a glimpse of the feelings and expressions of other members of the Latter-day Saint family.
—Mrs. Frank Ashley
Roseburg, Oregon

Just lately I have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine, and in it I am finding wonderful material for lessons. We missionaries are always thankful for extra help in our work. I find the lessons especially helpful in teaching the saints here in the mission.
—Elder Kent Lyman Stevenson
La Paz, Baja California

722

--- PAGE 721 (PDF page 752) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

OCTOBER 1963    VOLUME 50    NUMBER 10

Editor  Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor  Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager  Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
724  The Power of Books  Spencer W. Kimball
732  He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part V — President Joseph F. Smith  Preston Nibley
734  A Message to Young Mothers  Mary M. Ellsworth

Fiction
740  The Pendant  Hazel Cheesman
757  Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 4  Rosa Lee Lloyd

General Features
722  From Near and Far
742  Editorial:  In Time of Harvest  Vesta P. Crawford
744  Notes to the Field: Relief Society Lessons on Talking Book Records Available for the Sightless
745  Woman's Sphere  Ramona W. Cannon
763  Notes From the Field  Hulda Parker
800  Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and Out
747  Dinner in Advance  Dorothy C. Little
748  Stretching the Food Budget — Part II — Evaporated Milk  Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris
751  Ironing Out the Wrinkles  Maxine T. Grimm
752  Check Your Sewing Equipment  Shirley Thulin
754  Farm Cellar of Long Ago  Marian R. Anderson
756  Quilts That Tell a Story

Lessons for January
770  Design Your Teaching Aids for the 1963-1964 Lessons  Anna B. Hart
774  Theology — The Scriptures  Roy W. Doxey
779  Visiting Teacher Message — "Ask, and Ye Shall Receive. . . ."  Christine H. Robinson
781  Work Meeting — Planning the Use of Resources  Virginia F. Cutler
783  Literature — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist  Briant S. Jacobs
789  Social Science — Priesthood Quorums and Their Function  Ariel S. Ballif

Poetry
721  Lingering Autumn — Frontispiece  Dorothy J. Roberts
Landscape Quilting by Iris W. Schow, 731; Watchers, by Zara Sabin, 739; Farewell to a House Well Loved, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 744; Suggestion, by Ida Elaine James, 746; Count Your Blessings — Not Troubles, by Ursula King Bell, 751; Old Wagon Wheel, by Jeanette Swanson, 762; Ready for Carnival, by Maude Rubin, 773; My Afghan, by Pearle M. Olsen, 795; Open Kettle Canning, by Christie Lund Coles, 796; Hidden Worth, by Eva Wiles Wangsgaard, 796; Two By Two, by Arline Cummings, 797; Pictures of an Old Red Barn, by Linnie F. Robinson, 798; Sidewalk Vignette, by Betty Isler, 800.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association  Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511.  Subscriptions 2642, Editorial Dept. 2654.  Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance.  The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.  No back numbers can be supplied.  Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.  Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.  Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.  Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918   Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed.  Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only.   The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 722 (PDF page 753) ---
The Power of Books

Elder Spencer W. Kimball
of the Council of the Twelve
and Camila E. Kimball

SINCE time immemorial men's thoughts have been directed, their emotions swayed, their lives influenced, and their actions stirred or curtailed by the expressed thought and experiences lived by others.

Real thinkers are the small minority, and the followers in thought and act are the great majority.

People are changed by what they hear and what they read. Alexander Smith says: "Books are a finer world within a world." And we heartily agree if he refers to the "best books."

While there have been books and records all through the ages, they are far more abundant today, and even a person of moderate means may have an adequate library in his own home and have access to numerous books and magazines through public libraries which boast millions of copies. There is little excuse for even the poorest folk in our day to be without good reading material.

In pioneer days written material was at a premium. It is recorded that Abraham Lincoln, the American Emancipator, was so hungry for reading material that he walked long distances to borrow a book and then to return it; and he used charcoal to write on smooth wood and a knife to whittle off the writing. In those early days when men were fighting the natural elements, trying to get a foothold in the soil and to establish themselves in virgin territory, their long hours were spent in manual labor, and they had neither the time nor the books. But today what an opportunity! Laboring hours have been reduced and leisure time increased! Numerous leisure books have been made available to men. It is noticeable that many use these extra hours for fun and pleasure. Certainly an increased part of it could profitably be used in gaining knowledge and culture through the reading of good books.

Numerous people fail to take advantage of these opportunities. Many people spend hours in planes with only cursory glancing at magazines, and in the train or bus, time is spent "sitting and thinking," and in many cases, "just sitting," when there could be such a constructive program of reading. People in beauty parlors, professional offices, waiting rooms, and elsewhere waste precious hours thumbing through outdated magazines when much valuable reading could be done in these islands of time. For example, the Bible can be read in a year's time with but a little time each day.

Good reading habits should be formed in early childhood. Since women, generally, have the greater responsibility in training the children they should make a study of their facilities.

We might ask each mother: Is there a dearth of good books in your home? Is there sufficient reading material of good quality and high standard for each child, so that each will read the appropriate books as he grows up — those books which will whet his taste for good things,

724

--- PAGE 723 (PDF page 754) ---
THE POWER OF BOOKS

stimulate his ambition, properly stir his emotions, and increase his love for the beautiful and proper things, and develop his faith and build his character?

Do you mothers read to your children to start them in their hunger for the good things? There are mothers who read the stories of the scriptures regularly to their children who look forward to this delightful family experience.

ARE you careful in the selection of the books which go into your home library so that only the clean and the good are available to the children? Are you as careful with the diet of reading material for their minds as you are of the food which goes daily into their bodies? How few children would get a balanced diet if left to their own fickle appetites. And it is in these homes where parents are careless that there is found pornographic reading material and salacious pictures and stories to stuff the minds with lewdness and filth. If children establish their standards from either rude persons or crude books and pictures, society has suffered an irreparable loss, whereas it has a right to expect from each of its members a worthwhile contribution toward peace, joy, and progress.

Out of the vast amount of reading material available there is something exactly to fit the needs of every child at every age from the slightly retarded to the most brilliant child, and all in between at their own vocabulary level. The wise parents will supply the proper books and stimulate their reading.

Someone has said: "I no more remember the books I have read, than the meals I have eaten, but they make me what I am."

Every person we meet makes a contribution to our lives, good or bad. Every book can influence the life of the person who reads it. The parents' responsibility, then, is to make certain that the influence is good. While the body is sacred and vital, the mind and spirit are of greater importance. Even in the beginning there was the written word, for Adam and Eve were conscious of the need for the development of the mind, "And by them their children were taught to read and write, having a language which was pure and undefiled" (Moses 6:6).

The prophets were faithful in recording their predictions and warnings, and the patriarchs in making accurate accounts of the movements of the people, their human events, their genealogies, their biographies, and the world events. Their smaller world was limited in communication and transportation, but, coming from them, we have the precious records of the ages with their lessons of life accurately depicted.

Whether they wrote on paper, papyrus, clay tablets, on stone or on metal, the political and spiritual leaders made faithful records and, to them, we are indebted for the great mass of worthwhile information that is available to us today.

IN THE museums of London, Cairo, Bagdad, Paris, and elsewhere are numerous clay tablets and metal records preserved from the antiquities.

Far down in the bowels of the

725