[Vol50 | April | Magazine Page 304 | PDF Page 319]
[Title: Keep My Own — Chapter 4]

--- PAGE 303 (PDF page 318) ---
never been the fuss made about it that there is now." Ella would not be gainsaid. "I'll phone the doctor myself. We'll straighten this out right now." She reached toward the phone.

"No." Irene shook her head. "I'm sorry you're not pleased about it, but I prefer to have the baby in the hospital anyway. Even if the doctor didn't care. They'll take good care of us there."

"Not as good as I would!" Ella beat her cookie dough vigorously. "It's the way things have always been done in the Spencer family. I don't know why we should change now. What was good enough for Dick's mother ought to be good enough for his wife."

Irene's brittle patience had worn thin. "This is our decision, Ella, mine and Dick's. I feel better about going to the hospital, and the doctor advises it, so Dick will want me to do that. We've talked it over. Dick, the doctor, and I have made the decision."

Granddad tried to ease the tension. "You seem convinced the baby will be a boy, Ella. What if Irene has a girl?"

"I'd like a girl," she said shortly, "but all the Spencer babies have been boys since your own father was born." Ella spoke as if that settled the matter.

"Maybe it's time for a change. Variety is the spice of life, they say. Old as I am, if I'm going to have any of that spice, I'd better be getting started. I'd be pleased with a boy. But if the good Lord decides it's time to grace the line with a bit of femininity, I'll be pleased about that, too. It might be in-

teresting to think of the future in terms of petticoats and curls."

IRENE smiled wearily. "I'll have you both know it won't make one iota of difference to Dick and me. I'm going to have so many children that out of such an abundance I'll be fairly sure to get a supply of all the kinds there are."

The telephone jangled before she finished speaking. It was a welcome break. Ella's lips were pursed tightly in a thin line. She was beating her cookie dough with a vengeance.

Irene picked up the receiver. "Hello."

"Irene? Good news, honey. I got the contract. One of the biggest to be let in this series. Puts me right in line for others, too. Get on your best bonnet and bustle, sweetheart, we're going out to celebrate."

"Oh, Dick, that's just wonderful." "It's a big break for us."

"A break you got because you've been working night and day to make it. I'm so proud of you, Dick."

"I'll be home in an hour or so." There was a note of modest pleasure in his voice because she was proud. "Can you be ready?"

"I'll try. I've been in town all day." Not wishing to spoil the triumph for him, she added, "I'll go lie down for a few minutes, then I'll be rested and ready."

"Fine. See you soon, then."

As she replaced the instrument, she turned to Granddad and Ella. "Dick got the contract. Isn't that marvelous?"

Granddad's face lit with a measure of her own sentiments. "It certainly is," he said. "I knew it

306

--- PAGE 304 (PDF page 319) ---
**KEEP MY OWN**

wouldn't be much longer before he started moving ahead. He's a go-getter, that grandson of mine."

Irene brushed his forehead with a kiss, relishing the companionship of mutual pride. She looked toward Ella's starched back, then left the room, knowing the older woman was still seething. Ella wasn't speaking. She was silent only when she was angry.

The room next to Dick and Irene's had been converted to a nursery. Irene had adopted a habit of going through it each time she went to her own room. Being there gave her a great deal of pleasure. Today, as she stepped to the door, she saw Davy.

He stood enraptured in the center of the gay yellow and white room. His large eyes noted every detail, from the nursery prints on the walls to the old-fashioned rocker that Ella had donated. Irene had made a thick cushion of pale yellow and white quilting for the back and seat of the rocker and the same material was repeated in the padding on a work table as well as in the covering on the chaise lounge under one of the windows. Most of all, Davy was fascinated by the bassinet. It stood in reverent anticipation, a delicate puff of white eyelet ruffles and tiny yellow embroidered flowers. Davy's thin little hand touched a bit of fluff, and stroked a downy yellow comforter. Irene had mooned over the bassinet herself frequently, so she could understand Davy's obvious delight.

"It's for the baby, Davy," she said.

His eyes were expressionless as they turned to her, but he didn't try to run away. She stood in indecision, wondering what she could do or say to strengthen this sudden acceptance of her presence. Davy solved the problem himself. He walked to the rocking chair and touched the polished arm of it, setting it in motion. They stood and watched the steady movement together.

He looked up at her again. She was vaguely disappointed to see the vacant expression still on his face, but she managed to smile. He grinned in return, giving his chin face a strange cross-expression between a smile and a wail.

He left the room as silently as he had probably come. Irene didn't have her usual sick feeling that he was trying to escape her. Through the wall of his silence, a root of understanding was forcing its way.

She lay down on the massive four-poster bed that had been Dick's mother's before it was hers, but before she slipped into the refreshing oblivion of sleep, she murmured softly, half-aloud, "He understood. Davy understood."

**D**ICK was dressing for dinner when she wakened. It was nearly dark outside.

"Oh, Dick, you should have awakened me. It's so late."

"Not too late. Granddad said you were pretty tired when you got home this afternoon." He walked to the bed and stood looking down at her. "How do you feel now?"

She stretched like a contented cat. "Rested. Lazy." She reached out with both hands. He took them, helping her to a sitting position.

307

--- PAGE 305 (PDF page 320) ---
APRIL 1963

Then, remembering, she said, "Davy was in the nursery when I got home this afternoon. We had such a pleasant few moments together. I felt as if we really communicated for the first time."

Hope leaped to Dick's eyes. He found her slippers and brought them to her. "I wanted to talk to you about that. I wondered if you still thought he was too much of a burden for you . . . now, or after the baby comes. . . ."

She waited, not quite knowing what he expected her to say.

"I had halfway decided that the first good contract I got, we could spend part of the money to send Davy away to a school for mutes, if you want to. There's an outstanding one in Texas that specializes in his type of case . . . if you really want to send him away."

She paused in the act of slipping her feet into the slippers. She looked up at her husband, knowing the heartache such a decision would have cost him.

"Oh, Dick, I can't deny how often I've wished for that. Sometimes I was sure it would be better for everyone concerned, including Davy and the baby. Now . . . now I know it was just selfishness on my part. A selfish wish to shirk a responsibility that's rightfully mine. Selfishness. If anyone had ever told me I would be selfish concerning the welfare of a child!

"I want Davy to have every possible chance," she said evenly. "A few weeks ago I would have agreed without a second thought. Now, I want to do what's right and best. He wouldn't be happy so far from all of us. Nor would we be happy with him gone. I couldn't deprive him of the only love and security he knows. Not unless it's necessary . . . as you said, darling, the last resort. If the doctors advise us to do that . . . not unless. Dick, I never fully realized until just now, I've been very selfish, haven't I?"

He was uncomfortable. "I understand how you felt."

"I know you tried. Well, this is Davy's home," she said with conviction. "He belongs in this house with his family. If we have to have outside help, we should be thinking in terms of bringing a speech therapist to him, not of sending him away. We haven't given Davy or ourselves much chance. We've been so involved with other things . . . remodeling, the business, the baby. . . . Later, if we're sure we've failed, we'll talk to the doctor about a teacher or a school."

He grinned one-sidedly at her. "You've been talking to Granddad."

"Yes. He's so wise and good, Dick."

He took her into his arms and held her close. "If we're going out we'd better be getting ready," he said at last.

As she was getting dressed, he said, "I understand you had a few words with Ella today."

Her hairbrush stopped in the silk of her honey-hued hair. "I'm sorry," she said. "We had a dial. I was so tired, I guess I was cut." Her eyes met his in the mirror as he stood in back of her knotting his tie. She turned to help him, and went on, "I didn't use much diplomacy, I'm afraid."

308

--- PAGE 306 (PDF page 321) ---
KEEP MY OWN

"Maybe it's all for the best. Ella means well. She wouldn't do anything to interfere, if she thought she was interfering . . . or to hurt us for the world. She's been the only woman for so long, and she's used to running things pretty much her way. It's a sharp slap for a queen bee to suddenly find herself sharing her throne with another queen."

"I know. And she's our rock, Dick, the base this family revolves around. We just couldn't get along without her."

He nodded. "Maybe she can come to understand that in things pertaining to our private lives, we have to make our own choices frequently without her help. She only wants what she thinks is right. We're having to adjust even now. We should be able to understand that the adjustments have been just as difficult for Ella, too."

(To be continued)

On His Way

Rose Thomas Graham

Proud as a peacock he walks down the street,
    his head held high.

He deigns to smile if he chances to meet
    a passerby.

But he never turns to the left nor right;
    do you suppose

He thinks he belongs to the mighty-might?
    He tilts his nose

And purses his lips with a haughty air;
    He's on his way.

It makes no difference if people stare.
    It's his birthday.

But isn't my precious three-year-old cute
Out for a walk in his blue-buttoned suit?

WITH GRATITUDE

THANK God, our Heavenly Father, for permitting me to live long enough in this earthly proving ground so that I have developed a more reasonable state of mind, a more studious inclination; a more firm grasp upon the reality of God's existence, and a more sure knowledge that I may, by my own integrity and faithfulness, achieve a place in his eternal home.

Thank God for later years.

— Clara Horne Park

309