[Vol50 | May | Magazine Page 372 | PDF Page 390]
[Title: Keep My Own — Chapter 5]

--- PAGE 371 (PDF page 389) ---
KEEP MY OWN

Ella's face was working. She was exhausted by the long night of waiting. It was all she could do to restrain her fears.

"Here, now," Granddad said kindly, "don't cry. Dick says everything's fine now. The baby's fine, Irene's fine. They're going to name her Kathy Ella, for Dick's mother, and for you."

It was too much. Ella burst into tears. With her apron pressed against her face, she ran upstairs.

Granddad remained downstairs, waiting for Dick.

THE yellow-gray film of dawn was lifting reluctantly when Dick's car pulled into the drive. Granddad rose from where he still sat in the kitchen, and made his way out the side door to greet his grandson.

He was astounded to see Davy, still clad in his pajamas, running exuberantly out of the house ahead of him. The child almost tore open the car door and looked inside. Then he looked at Dick. His lower lip trembled. Dick had betrayed him. He had taken Irene away, and he had come home without the baby and without Irene as well.

Dick reached toward the child, but Davy pulled away and started to run toward the house.

"Wait, Davy, wait," Dick called after him.

Granddad caught him. "Davy, that's no way to act. Were you looking for Irene and the baby? She's going to stay in the hospital for a few days to rest. The baby will stay there with her. She won't be gone very long. Come now, Dick wants to tell you about the baby."

The appeal was too great. Davy turned in Granddad's arms and looked at his brother. Dick grinned in that one-sided way he had, and took a bag of peanuts from his pocket. "Come on, fella," he said gently, "Irene especially wanted me to tell you about the baby."

Davy went into his arms.

At the kitchen table, Davy secreted the nuts in his pajama pocket for further enjoyment. Granddad had made hot chocolate, and Davy liked that better than peanuts, so the nuts could wait. He sat on Dick's lap with a large mug of steaming hot, brown liquid in his hands. He had three marshmallows on top of it, and each time he drank some of it, a white marshmallow mustache on his upper lip increased in size.

Dick said, "We've got a little girl, Davy. She's no bigger than a minute. Remember that trout that Granddad caught on the Fourth of July? About the same size as that."

Davy's eyes were round with wonder. Dick went on, "She has lots of hair. Blond hair . . . ash blond like yours, Davy . . . ." Davy squirmed with pleasure. . . . "And she's probably going to have eyes as dark as that cocoa."

DAVY peered into the cocoa container. He knew what Dick meant. Eyes like Irene's. Warm and soft and loving. Davy nestled closer to Dick, remembering Irene's eyes.

"We're going to name her Kathy. Kathy Ella Spencer. Do you like that?"

375

--- PAGE 372 (PDF page 390) ---
MAY 1963

Davy thought about it. Then that elfin grin washed over his face. He nodded.

Granddad asked, as Davy concentrated on the drink in his mug, "Any more trouble breathing?"

"Not a bit. They'll keep her under observation for a day or so, but after that initial scare, everything went smoothly."

"Is Irene pleased? She never said whether she really wanted a boy or a girl."

Dick's face mellowed at the mention of his wife. "She's thrilled. She really didn't care which we got.

When she heard it was a girl, she said to tell you that now you've got your spice, Granddad . . . whatever that means. Then she said she hoped Davy would be happy, too."

They looked at Davy. His empty mug rested in both hands on his lap. He had fallen asleep on Dick's shoulder, evidence that he, too, hadn't slept much the night before. The sticky mustache covered his upper lip. Below that white strip, his mouth turned upwards. The corners were, it seemed, permanently settled in an angelic smile.

(To be concluded)

[ILLUSTRATION]

Last Bell

Margery S. Stewart

Laughter erupts from
The schoolhouse in
Bursts of boys, in winds
Of children snatching
Last leaves of afternoon.
Feet make a joyous demolishment
Of silence.
Children run
Under my hands,
Separate tempests.
We are discarded suddenly,
Globe, pointer, blackboard,
And I, the teacher,
To gather dust until morning.

376

--- PAGE 373 (PDF page 391) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Mary Lee Myers and Henrietta W. Larsen—
"Sewing Sisters"

MARY Lee Wilson Myers and Henrietta McCloy Larsen, of the Highland Ward in Alpine Stake, are friends who enjoy their home sewing and handwork together, and are devoted members of Relief Society. "Stitches taken together have a double meaning," they say, and their friendship has deepened over the years. Their favorite hobbies are crocheting and quiltmaking. They have designed original patterns for quilt blocks, as well as making many quilts in patchwork, wedding ring, star designs, and other patterns.

Mrs. Myers was the first Primary president in Highland Ward, and has worked in Relief Society for many years, having been a visiting teacher "almost always." She is a practical nurse and an excellent seamstress. She has made many lovely wedding gowns. Mother of five children, she now has seventeen grandchildren and twenty-five great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild.

Mrs. Larsen has worked in Relief Society since 1915, serving in many capacities of leadership. She gave to the Highland Ward the volumes of The Relief Society Magazine back to 1914. She loves genealogical work and has made pedigree charts for 200 ancestors, and has completed thirteen scrapbooks. She also assisted in compiling the ward genealogy book. Since coming to Highland Ward she has made more than 200 quilts. Three of her five children are living, and she has five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

377

--- PAGE 374 (PDF page 392) ---
Magazine Honor Roll for 1962

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

THE greatest increase in subscriptions in the history of The Relief Society Magazine marks the Fiftieth Anniversary of its beginning. There was an increase in subscriptions of 18,334 in 1962 over 1961's total of 183,236. This should be a matter of satisfaction and gratitude to stake and mission, ward and branch presidents, and Magazine representatives. It reflects the opportunity which was afforded to 201,570 sisters in 1962 who subscribed to the Magazine to study the Relief Society lessons in the Magazine and partake of the instructions, warnings, and encouragement of the General Authorities and leaders in Relief Society. The Relief Society Magazine is one means — and an important one — of drawing the sisterhood of the Church ever closer in understanding and purpose.

The General Board extends its appreciation to every devoted, loyal Relief Society officer who has helped to achieve this outstanding record, and to readers of the Magazine everywhere who support this publication of Relief Society. The General Board is grateful for the letters of appreciation which are constantly received from subscribers. It is also thankful to gifted Latter-day Saint women writers who submit their excellent articles, fiction, non-fiction, and poetry to the Magazine.

Missions throughout the world express appreciation for the gift subscriptions to the Magazine which come from individuals, stakes, wards, and branches, and are divided equitably among the missions for the use of missionaries, and investigators, and a few sisters in non-English-speaking missions who can read some English.

There were 325 stakes on the Honor Roll in 1962, an increase of twenty-two over 1961, and there were 2,593 wards and branches in stakes on the Honor Roll, an increase of 249 over 1961.

For sixteen consecutive years the South Los Angeles Stake has had the highest percentage of subscriptions. In 1962 they had 237 per cent. They also had the highest number of subscriptions — 1,751. The next three highest rating stakes, all in Southern California, were also in high positions last year — Huntington Park, Glendale, and Inglewood. Of the top ten stakes, eight were also in the top ten a year ago. There were this year five from California, two from Nevada, two from Arizona, and one from Idaho.

In 1962 there were twenty-two missions on the Honor Roll, the North Central States Mission leading, with 117 per cent; second is Western States Mission, and third the California Mission. Of the top ten, seven are in the United States, and the other three are the Southwest British, Irish,

378