[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 221 | PDF Page 232]
[Title: Visiting Teacher Messages]

--- PAGE 220 (PDF page 231) ---
MARCH 1963

Wash rice well, then drain, and boil till tender in salted water. Drain well. Meanwhile heat olive oil in frying pan over low heat. Add onions, peppers, celery, and fry gently for 10 minutes. Add ground beef and sauté until lightly browned, stirring constantly to prevent burning of vegetables. Add tomatoes, cover, and cook 15 minutes longer. Combine with rice, and add salt, pepper, and all but ¼ cup cheese. Mix well, and put in well-buttered casserole. Cover with remaining cheese and bake at 350° 25 minutes, or until cheese is melted and lightly brown. Serves 6 to 8.

Main Dish Meat Roll

1½ lbs. ground beef                1½ tsp. salt
½ lb. ground pork sausage         dash of pepper
4 tbsp. onion (sauted in 1 tbsp.   ½ c. bread crumbs
         shortening)                1 egg, beaten

Heat oven to 350° F. Combine ingredients; mix thoroughly. Put on waxed paper; pat out in a sheet 14 inches long by 10 inches wide.

Potato and Pea Stuffing

2 c. mashed potatoes              1 tsp. salt
1 can green pea soup, undiluted   dash of pepper
                                  1 egg, beaten

Combine ingredients; mix well. Place on the meat and roll the meat mixture around stuffing. Remove wax paper. Bake in moderate oven for 1-1¼ hours at 350°. Serves 8.

Budget Beef Pie

Sauté ¼ cup sliced onion and ½ pound hamburger until lightly brown. Add ½ tsp. salt and 1 can condensed tomato soup. Pour into baking dish and cover with rolled biscuit dough. Bake in hot oven (450°) about 20 minutes. Turn upside down on plate. Can be stretched to 6 servings.

Busy-Day Casserole

¾ c. chopped onions              2 tbsp. prepared mustard
2 tbsp. butter or substitute     ½ tsp. salt
1 lb. ground beef                dash of pepper
1 can condensed vegetable soup   2¼ c. water
1 c. water                       2 c. instant rice
2 tbsp. catsup                   ¾ tsp. salt

Sauté onions in butter until golden. Add meat and sauté until browned. Add soup, 1 c. water, catsup, mustard, salt, and pepper. Mix well. Bring to a boil, then simmer 15 minutes.

Meanwhile combine rice, water, and salt in saucepan. Cook according to package directions.

Add rice to meat in sauce. Mix and turn into 2-quart casserole. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs or grated cheese if desired. Put under broiler for 2 or 3 minutes. Serves 6.

Surprise Patties

Shape raw meat loaf into 8 patties. Place sliced cheese on 4 patties. Cover with second patty. Place strip of bacon around edge and hold with toothpick. Broil slowly 10 minutes on each side about 4 inches from heat.

222

--- PAGE 221 (PDF page 232) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Lucy S. Guyas, Maker of Many Quilts

LUCY Standley Guyas, Salmon, Idaho, has pieced and quilted more than a hundred quilts in the last sixteen years. More than forty of these beautiful quilts were made in the effective six-point Lone Star pattern (similar to the one which is folded across Sister Guyas' lap). Many other patterns, including the bowknot and double bow knot, and wedding ring patterns have been used in this long-time quiltmaking project. The materials have included cotton fabrics of many kinds, prints, plain-colored, stripes and checks, and also many types of rayon and satin materials, as well as taffetas and brocades. The colors have been beautifully contrasted, accenting to the artistic requirements of the pattern. Many lovely quilts have been given to friends and neighbors and in this way a large number of homes have been beautified and made comfortable.

Mrs. Guyas is mother to three children and grandmother to nine. She has lived in Salmon for thirty-five years and is active in the Church, and in Relief Society.

---

Speak that kindly word and do that kindly deed that lingers in your heart. Who knows what ray of sunshine it may bring—and tomorrow may be too late.
—Pauline Bell

223

--- PAGE 222 (PDF page 233) ---
Keep My Own
Kit Linford

CHAPTER 3

Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who met her husband Dick in South Africa, comes to a small town near Salt Lake City, and sees for the first time the shabby old house which is to be her home. Dick plans to have his Grandfather and his young handicapped brother David live with them. Irene meets Dick's Aunt Ella who has cared for David since his mother died, and Aunt Ella, also, is accepted as a member of the new household.

ELLA was a one-woman army in a war against dirt. She attacked the grime that had accumulated in the big house with a vigor that left Irene breathless. As she worked, she talked. Irene had learned not to try to ease in a reply unless necessary. Ella talked more to herself and her enemy, the dirt, than to anyone else.

"Got to vacuum first, that's for sure." The whir of the machine formed a buzzing backdrop to her words. "Send drapes to the cleaners, so you can see what color they are. Can't stand to even take them down until they've been vacuumed, though. Like to choke us all to death, all that dust. What are we going to do with this rug? It'll take a miracle to get that soot out of it. I'd forgotten there was so much woodwork. It needs a good coat of polish, after we get it cleaned."

Davy moved like a small ghost through the rooms. He followed Ella as she worked, and she encouraged the child to remain nearby.

Irene felt haunted by the child. She would feel his presence, his empty eyes on her as she worked. If she turned to see him, he would be gone. Or she would glance up, to find him half-hidden by a drape or a chair, peeping out at her. If she tried to approach him or speak to him, he would shrink from her and disappear.

Bringing order out of chaos was no easy thing to do. As the remodeling progressed, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, and painters created and recreated a havoc of noise and clutter.

Each day Irene and Ella struggled valiantly through what seemed like never-ending mountains of dust, dirt, sawdust, paint, plaster, and other assorted materials. They found companionship in their mutual struggle against them. Irene was grateful for the numbness that hard work enforced on her mind.

She still felt like an interloping outsider. When she tried to visualize the future, she rejected such thoughts fearfully. Years seemed to stretch before her, with a house to care for in which she was an alien stranger, and a child to rear that she couldn't even talk to. She couldn't accustom herself to carrying on one-sided conversations with Davy, as Dick did. Besides, Davy wouldn't let her. He was lost and confused

224

[ILLUSTRATION: Victorian-style house with turrets and ornate architecture]

--- PAGE 223 (PDF page 234) ---
in the riot of the house, cared for, but largely ignored.

Even the solarium was not exempt from the clutter. It was hollowly empty when Dick moved his desk and files into it. Three walls of glass surrounded him, and in the U center of those windows, he set up his drawing board. Later he intended to partition the huge room into offices. At the moment, it became a convenient storage spot for paint cans, hammers, plumbing fixtures, draperies that had come back from the cleaners but would not be hung until the cleaning was finished, and other odds and ends that Ella, Irene, and the workmen saw fit to store away in it. Dick was good-natured about this usurpation of his domain, but Irene knew he would welcome any changes for the better.

She fell into bed each night so exhausted that, as she told Dick, frequently she was asleep before her head touched the pillow.

He frowned. "You'd better take it easy. You're trying to get too much done too fast. It'll wait."

"That's what I'm afraid of. It's waited too long already."

"You don't want to overdo, Irene."

"I'm perfectly all right," she said fondly. "The work's good for me. It keeps my mind occupied."

THE sea-grayness of his eyes darkened. "I know what you mean. I know how hard all this has been on you. The house, and Granddad and Ella, and especially Davy. I can't just forget them and go off and live my own life, Irene, even if that might be the easy way. They're mine. Blood's thicker than brine, they say. . . ."

Tears rushed to her eyes. She saw his face through a blur. She had thought he didn't understand!

"Oh, Dick, I know we can't do anything else! When I think of it rationally, I don't want to, either. I'm a woman grown. I'll be a mother soon. If I can't accept a few responsibilities, I'd be a poor excuse for a wife. I love you, and I love them, too. Because I do, I know I can work all this out. Just give me a little more time. I feel so strange, sometimes, coming here from a foreign country. . . ." She forced herself to smile through the haze of her tears.

Buried again in the never-ending cleaning, she let her forced smile die a natural death. She had believed her words when she spoke them to Dick. Afterward, alone in the library with cliffs of books surrounding her, she looked inward upon herself and knew how immature and afraid she was.

She pulled books out and stacked them about the room while she cleaned the shelves. Someday she hoped to have time to read some of them. She turned a rich red leather bound volume over in her hands to examine the title, then paused. She had the unmistakable eerie feeling of Davy's seeking eyes burning into her back.

She didn't turn, knowing that he would be gone if she did. She spoke softly, so she wouldn't startle him.

"Come in, Davy. Isn't this a beautiful room? Books are good friends, and there are so many of them in here."

Then she dared look toward him.

225