[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 881 | PDF Page 920]
[Title: Song of Shepherds — Frontispiece]

--- PAGE 880 (PDF page 919) ---
From Near and Far

I certainly did enjoy the article in the October Magazine "A Message to Young Mothers." It really hit home and was just what I needed. And the story about "The Farm Cellar of Long Ago" just made my mouth water with delight, and as usual, the cover was lovely. It brought a lump to my throat to see this photograph ("Autumn Leaves on a Pool," by L. Paul Roberts) and it gave me a longing once more to see that golden autumn.
—Mrs. Rae Woolf
Anaheim, California

In sixteen months it will be our turn to go home to Utah—after about four years of wonderful experiences here in New Zealand. With all the moving, the homesickness, and the usual adjustments, we wouldn't trade these four years for any other time in our lives. The wonderful Relief Society Magazine has followed us wherever we have gone, and its pages have been read and digested as never before because, as with all things of great value, this labor mission has taught us the true worth of both material and spiritual things. Our testimonies have grown and we are thankful to be members of the Church.
—Elaine Fluhman
Henderson, New Zealand

In the recent splendid September issue of the Relief Society Magazine I especially enjoyed the article "From the Palace of a Princess to a Place in Normandy," by Claire Noall. This descriptive article is very beautiful and interspersed with interesting history about the locality. The pictures are vividly colorful, and they give one who has longed to travel a clear picture of the Norman country and people. Being a semi shut-in for years, I have thoroughly enjoyed the Magazine.
—Anne H. J. Gebhart
Salt Lake City, Utah

I would like to express how deeply I was impressed with the wonderful article written by Belva Barlow, "Relief Society — A Blessing to Young Women" in the August issue of the Magazine. Oh, how it will help and awaken our young mothers to the great love and assistance they will receive from attending Relief Society regularly.
—Gudrun K. Shurtliff
Ogden, Utah

Let me thank you for publishing my story "The Restyling" in the September issue of the Magazine. I especially appreciate the art work that was done for it. It really enhanced the page.
—Dorothea J. Neilson
Salt Lake City, Utah

I appreciate the October issue of the Magazine very much, and I was especially pleased with the article "A Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth. This message I could apply to anyone. It is a message I need to take into my life.
—Mrs. Helen Johnson
Jerome, Idaho

The recipes in the Magazine are really wonderful, and every one I have tried has been a success.
—Phyllis Stewart
Inglewood, California

I have read and appreciated the Magazine for many years, but never so deeply as I have since my husband passed away. In my sorrow and bereavement, I have received much encouragement and have been greatly comforted so many times upon opening our Magazine and finding a poem or an article that seemed to be written especially for me, so very consoling, faith promoting, and uplifting they were.
—Evelyn M. Lundell
Benjamin, Utah

882

--- PAGE 881 (PDF page 920) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

DECEMBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 12

Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
885 President Hugh B. Brown
887 President Nathan Eldon Tanner
890 Elder Thomas Spencer Monson Appointed to The Council of the Twelve
893 An Army of God Samaritans Hugh B. Brown
899 The Relief Society Annual General Conference Hulda Parker
905 Season of Giving — The National Tuberculosis Association

Fiction
907 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 6 Rosa Lee Lloyd

General Features
882 From Near and Far
902 Editorial: The 133d Semi-Annual Church Conference
904 Christmas Over the Years Vesta P. Crawford
906 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
960 Birthday Congratulations

The Christmas Home - Inside and Out
913 Cutouts Tell the Christmas Story
914 A Time for Enchanted Christmas Trees
918 A Lovely Gift — Oriental Silk Panel Betty B. Huber
920 A Golden Candle for Christmas Ardelle West
921 Make Marzipan for Christmas Bertha Josuks
922 Home for the Holidays Jane S. Tibbals and Hazel S. Cannon

Lessons for March
930 Theology — Stewardships; A Review Roy W. Doxey
938 Visiting Teacher Message — "For Unto Him That Receiveth. . . ."
                                    Christine H. Robinson
940 Work Meeting — Planning and Preserving Traditions Important to the Family
                                    Virginia F. Cutler
942 Literature — Willa Cather, Love of Life Briant S. Jacobs
948 Social Science — Church Courts Ariel S. Ballif

Poetry
881 Song of Shepherds — Frontispiece Leslie Savage Clark
Salute to Christmas, by Hazel Loomis, 886; The Need of the Name, by Christie Lund Coles, 889; Prayer, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 892; Star-Wakened, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 898; Gifts of Gold, by Lola Foster Morris, 901; Color Scheme, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 905; Christmastime, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 912; Old-Fashioned Thinking, by Beulah Huish Sadler, 947; Astronaut, by Grace Barker Wilson, 955; Past Grownup Sight, by Ida Elaine James, 958.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Phone EMpire 4-4251. Subscriptions: $2.42, Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year, foreign, $2.00 a year, 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 882 (PDF page 921) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH - Black and white portrait of a middle-aged man wearing glasses, suit and tie]

--- PAGE 883 (PDF page 922) ---
President Hugh B. Brown

ON Friday morning, October 4, 1963, at the opening session of the 133d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, President Hugh B. Brown, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, was sustained as First Counselor to President David O. McKay to fill the vacancy in the Quorum of the First Presidency caused by the sudden death of President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle, September 18, 1963.

President Brown is well known and beloved throughout the Church. When he was appointed and sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve at the April 1958 General Conference, Elder Harold B. Lee, in writing of Elder Brown's new appointment for The Relief Society Magazine, expressed the appreciation of many others also familiar with the great gifts and accomplishments of Elder Brown: "Seldom has there been a man whose vast service in the Church has affected the lives of so many for good, and the saints with one heart seemed to echo their acceptance of this eloquent preacher of righteousness to the high place to which he has been called."

President Brown was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 26, 1883, the son of Homer M. and Lydia Jane Brown. In his middle teens he went to Canada with his parents. There, at the age of twenty-one, he was called upon a mission to Great Britain and was released in 1906. He served with distinction overseas in the First World War and returned home as a Major in the Canadian Army. He then took up the study of law and entered into the practice of his profession. In 1908 he married Zina Young Card, daughter of Charles Ora Card and Zina Young Card. Sister Brown's father was the founder of Cardston, Canada, and her mother was a daughter of Brigham Young. Her grandmother was the third General President of Relief Society. President and Sister Brown are parents of six lovely daughters and two sons, all living, except Hugh Card Brown who was killed in 1942 while serving in the Royal Air Force. There are twenty-five grandchildren, and ten great-grandchildren.

In 1921 the family moved to Lethbridge, Alberta, and when the Lethbridge Stake was organized in November of that year, it being the third stake in Canada and the eighty-fourth stake in the Church, Elder Brown was made its president. In 1927 Elder Brown and his

885