[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 19 | PDF Page 22]
[Title: Eleanor J. Taylor Appointed to the General Board]

--- PAGE 18 (PDF page 21) ---
Zola J. McGhie Appointed to the General Board

Emma Marr Peterson

ONE would never suspect the presence of the tremendous wealth of artistic talent hidden under the calm, modest demeanor of Zola Jacobs McGhie, called to be a member of the General Board of Relief Society, November 14, 1962.

Zola was born to pioneer parents on a ranch in the Snake River Valley, the twelfth in a family of thirteen children.

This little girl sang for President Joseph F. Smith when only three years of age in a stake conference meeting, where he was in attendance, and she has continued to use this talent, as well as many others, until the present time. Her entire family was musical and, for recreation, took part in quartets, trios, and duets.

As she grew older, Zola played leading parts in local school plays and musicals. She set high standards of achievement for herself from earliest childhood, and worked gladly to pay for lessons in music. At one time, her father turned over to her an acre of ground with sufficient beet seed to produce a crop, the sale of which might be used for music lessons. She planted, cared for, and harvested the crop and was thus able to obtain the best lessons available.

She had a number of flattering offers of a musical career from various sources, and, after moving to Salt Lake City, she did a great deal

[PHOTOGRAPH]
ZOLA JACOBS McGHIE

of operatic and oratorio work, often playing the leading roles. She sang in the Tabernacle Choir for twenty years.

Brother and Sister McGhie have three children, Sylvia Eagar (Mrs. Todd), Cherie Sorensen (Mrs. Keith), and Frank Lynn.

Sister McGhie has been a teacher and stake board member in the auxiliaries and served five years in Church work in Hawaii. She was serving as first counselor in the Bonneville Ward Relief Society at the time of her appointment to the General Board.

She approaches each and every task with sincere and humble prayer, intense study, and as much preparation as is possible. Truly, the Relief Society will be richer in having obtained the unique talents of Zola Jacobs McGhie.

20

--- PAGE 19 (PDF page 22) ---
Award Winners

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1962 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1962.

The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Miranda Snow Walton, El Monte, California, for her poem "Some Late Evening." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Roxana Farnsworth Hase, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Sego Lilies." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Attic Rain."

This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader.

The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.

Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Mrs. Walton appears for the fourth time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Hase is a third-time winner in the contest; and Mrs. Roberts has been a winner six times.

There were 298 poems entered in the contest for 1962. Entries were received from forty of the fifty states, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Washington, and Oregon. Canada, England, Mexico, New Zealand, and Australia were also represented among the entries.

The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated.

The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine.

Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest

21

--- PAGE 20 (PDF page 23) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Miranda Snow Walton

First Prize Poem

Some Late Evening

On some late evening I shall walk alone,
Along a path I have not walked before;
There, in a quiet garden, strange, unknown,
A house stands waiting with an open door.

The peace that passeth understanding falls
Upon my troubled spirit, stills my fears;
Out of the sacred dusk a low voice calls,
One I have known and loved in other years.

I seek my own, for it is end of day,
My footsteps turn within the garden gate;
I look ahead and know in some sure way
Inside those portals dear ones stand and wait.

I hesitate no more, my soul runs free
Before the falling shadows of the night,
The door is open wide, I see — I see
To where a loved one waits beside a light.

22

--- PAGE 21 (PDF page 24) ---
Sego Lilies

Impatiently we waited for the snow to melt,
The sun to warm the winter-weary roots;
Then, kitchen fork and tin pail in our hands,
We searched the valley floor for sego lily shoots.
How earnestly we took the prize from loosened earth,
Brown-coated, small, but succulent and sweet;
Manna in a desert not yet blossomed as the rose.
How blest we were to share this hidden treat!

Stern greasewood fingers caught and held our skirts,
Chill gusts of wind made bonnets insecure
As self-appointed guardians tried to hide
Some of the precious root bulbs to mature.
Thinking only of our present needs,
We would have taken all, these hunger-laden hours,
But who could doubt the wisdom of the plan
To let us also know the beauty of the flowers!

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Roxana Farnsworth Hase
Second Prize Poem

23