[Vol50 | June | Magazine Page 422 | PDF Page 442]
[Title: Editorial: The 133rd Annual Church Conference]

--- PAGE 421 (PDF page 441) ---
[Board listing at top of page in box format:]

Anna R. Hoyt
Faith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leona G. Clayton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Evon W. Peterson
Aletha M. Young
Josie B. Bott
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Eyring
Charlotte A. Larsen
Edith P. Boekman
Winnietred S.
Manwaring
Elna P. Haymond
Mary R. Young
Mary V. Cameron
Afton W. Hunt
Wealtha S. Mendenhall

Pearle M. Olsen
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Elizabeth B. Winters
LaRue H. Rosell
Jennie Day Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
LaPheal N. Turner
Irene W. Buchner
Irene C. Locke
Hazel S. Cannon
Hazel Love
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia J. Taylor
Anne R. Gledhill
Belva Barlow
Zola I. McGhie
Ora T. Paxman
Lula B. Walch

• Belle S. Spafford, President
• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
• Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer

and Fifth, the ecclesiastical groups. . . . Those who are active are working in an organized way for the betterment of one another, for the personal welfare of the membership, and for the good of society as a whole. . . .

God bless and prosper the Church as it bears witness to the reality of the personality of Deity, and to the fact that God has again revealed himself to man, and established a means whereby spirituality, brotherhood, and universal peace may be fostered among the children of men.

The Lord help us to be able to prove to the world that the restored gospel is just what the world today is longing for, and when they see it, may they know, as you and I know, that the everlasting gospel is a light to the world.

PRESIDENT Henry D. Moyle spoke of obedience to divine law as offering a solution to the problems of the world:

The world is not just a watch that the Lord wound up and left to run down. By the exercise of faith men can call upon God and obtain his help in fulfillment of the promises he has made. . . .

Christ's example and precept set in what is known as the Dispensation of the Meridian of Time control us today in our behavior and in our belief. . . .

This knowledge is priceless. The principles of the gospel can be understood and lived by all mankind.

PRESIDENT Hugh B. Brown declared that only the gospel of Christ can save the world from the dangers which threaten.

Nothing but the gospel of love, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, which we gratefully proclaim, can save the world or the individual from the dangers that threaten us. This is a gospel of character-building activity; of invincible faith and the courage that is born of faith; of repentance, the doorway to progress; of sanctification through baptism of water and of the Spirit, the doorway to the celestial kingdom. Let us take courage in the knowledge that Christ, the Prince of Peace, is at the helm. He has declared that the worth of souls is great in the sight of God. . . .

IN delivering a farewell blessing to the saints, President McKay gave counsel and direction for the days to come:

I am impressed with the thought everyone who has attended, either in presence or by listening in, no matter where he or she may be, must leave this conference with a greater determination to be a better man or a better woman; a better citizen of the town, county, or nation, than he or she has ever been before. . . . God help us to radiate strength, control, love, charity . . . faith in God, love of humanity, service to his people wherever they are. . . .

423

--- PAGE 422 (PDF page 442) ---
ESSENTIALS
of the
SHORT STORY

Rosa Lee Lloyd

[This article is presented as an aid for the authors who are preparing stories for entering in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May Magazine, and which closes August 15, 1963.]

Beginning

THE beginning of every story must have five steps: first, the character; second, the setting; third, the reason; fourth, the problem; then, the fifth step, the emotional reaction of your main character.

These five steps can be stated very simply and in an easy way to remember: who, where, what's doing, and how your character feels about it.

Reader Identification

If your fifth step, the emotional reaction of your main character is done successfully, whatever your character feels your reader will feel. This is called "reader identification."

Be sure to choose a story-idea that will appeal to the particular audience for whom you are writing. If it is a magazine for women, choose a subject that appeals to women. When writing for The Relief Society Magazine, your story might preferably be from the woman's point of view. Every single happening in your story should be seen through her eyes and tell of her emotional reaction to it.

Emotional Struggle

No matter what your story is about, the real struggle of the story is inside the mind of your main character, where, as one authority has said, two forces are fighting each other.

At the end of the struggle your character must achieve something, learn something, or both.

Let us suppose we have as our main character a wife and mother named Rachel, who is fearful for her children. The struggle which has been going on inside of her for many years is between her fear for their welfare and her love and desire for them to have the normal fun and activity that other children enjoy.

Her husband is a capable, easy-going man who is athletic coach at the local high school. He has always objected to Rachel's fearful attitude toward their children. He is concerned with their safety and protection, also, but he wants them to express themselves bravely and fearlessly in normal activities. He symbolizes Rachel's desire for her children to be brave and active.

Rachel has a younger brother who

424

--- PAGE 423 (PDF page 443) ---
ESSENTIALS OF THE SHORT STORY

was thrown from a horse when he was a child and has a twisted spine. He symbolizes Rachel's fear for her children. This is the situation that has caused conflict in this family for many years.

Story Incident
The incident that is the immediate concern of this story is when their twenty-year-old daughter Peggy tells them she is in love with Johnny Grant, a bush-pilot from Australia. He has asked her to marry him and go to the bush country in faraway Australia.

Conflict
Rachel is overwhelmed with doubt and fear. The real struggle of the story is taking place in her mind, where fear for her daughter is fighting her love and desire for her happiness.

Action
The action and events in this story must show the mother's attempts to dissuade her daughter from this marriage and the father's attempts to convince his wife that she must be brave enough and trusting enough to let her go with their blessing.

Black Moment
There must be times in this story when it seems that Rachel has succeeded in making Peggy so fearful of life in the bush country that she will refuse to marry Johnny. This is the black moment when the negative force seems to be winning.

Scenes
Your story must have dramatic scenes that build up to the crisis and the climax. Each scene must further the complication which is the difficulty your character faces.

Transitions
Have quick, easy transitions between the scenes. The editor or the present-day reader cannot take time to read long paragraphs of exposition.

Crisis
Each scene must lead up to the crisis where the reader holds his breath. It is the supreme predicament where the fate of your character hangs in the balance.
The crisis is the turning-point in the difficulty your character faces. It determines the further action up to the climax and end of your story.

Climax
The crisis and climax in the short story should not be far apart. In a serial they may be as much as a chapter apart.

Emotion
Characterization is always related to emotion. When writing a story you must ask yourself: what is the natural reaction of my character to such a situation? What will she do or be tempted to do?
Always remember that even though people are different they have the same basic emotions. All fiction writing is based on emotion.

425

--- PAGE 424 (PDF page 444) ---
JUNE 1963

Theme
At the end of the story I have outlined above, Rachel must learn to let her children live bravely and trustingly. Your story should say something worthwhile as its ultimate goal but you must not do this obviously. The action of the story must bring out its theme. The reader wants to be shown, not told.
One magazine editor has said that if he felt differently about some phase of life after he read a story, he generally bought the story.

Caution
Do be careful not to make your story too emotional or your charac-

ters too sentimental. Tight, held-in, restrained emotion should be your aim in every emotional reaction. Then, when it does break through at the crisis and climax, it will have added effect. But, even then, it must be done with subtlety and finesse.

Talent and Practice
Your own talent and ingenuity are what make you want to be a writer, but the only way to learn to write a story is to write one. And then — another one. In any art, "practice makes perfect," and writing is an art and a profession. So good luck and good writing.

As Sudden Roses
Ida Elaine James

From your midst I must go—
From all these hallowed places
Too deep in my heart for speech.

I will not look back, although
I leave behind these little graces;
Wrench apart every and each
Separate heaven
So closely woven.

In the heart's silence like snow
I take garlands of faces,
Far-ringing voices to surprise
The stillness of my spirit-ears.

Sweet-deep, soft, and low
Echoes will reach
Through doors of memories,
As rose-mist blent with tears—
Roses, years.

ERRATUM
IDAHO STAKE PERCENTAGE ON MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL
Attention is called to the correct figures for the subscription percentage for Idaho State: Enrollment 452 — Subscriptions 460, Percentage 102. The figures were listed incorrectly in the Magazine for May 1963, in the tabulation of stakes on the Honor Roll.

426