[Vol50 | October | Magazine Page 781 | PDF Page 812]
[Title: Work Meeting — Planning the Use of Resources]

--- PAGE 780 (PDF page 811) ---
for the use of its resources, some training in method, and a clear understanding of family goals. Training in how to make decisions about the use of money can begin for a child as soon as he is aware of the difference in value of coins. He is then old enough to join the family planning session. By virtue of the fact that he is a member of the family and shares in the work of the home, he has the right to share in the money resources. His share will be small to begin with, but he will have the chance to choose for himself how he will spend it. For extra work, a child may receive extra compensation and learn what it means to work for pay. Gradually he can learn to save for items of special importance to him. The only way he can learn to use money is to have some to use, and the only way to learn to save is to have a plan for the saving.

Parents set the savings goals of a mission or college education, but to a small child these goals are too remote to have much meaning. His participation in the savings plan for them will give meaning and motivate their realization. However, he learns through participation in family planning the great satisfactions to be gained through planned giving. He will know the joy of adding his bit to the building of a chapel, and share in the feeling of family security in setting aside the Lord's tenth. He will appreciate the feeling of security the payment of tithes can bring. The contributions planned for community relief will help him become aware of humanity's needs.

Grandparents, too, can be helpful in training children in the use of

money. They can provide the children with extra work opportunities and suggest ways in which the money earned might be used. If grandmother has more time than mother, she might be the one to teach the child to buy fabric for a pinafore and help her make it. Grandfather might provide a small garden plot for a boy in which to grow vegetables, help him buy the seed, plant and cultivate the garden, and advise him on how to find a buyer for the vegetables when ready for the table.

Each family plan will be different, even though basic needs may be the same - housing, food, clothing, etc. How, then, shall we go about making a plan that will fit our family needs and enable us to make wise use of our resources?

First, let us discover what we are actually doing with our money by keeping a record of our expenditures for a month. Envelopes might be labeled food, rent, clothing, health (doctor, dentist, medicines), tithes and offerings, personal care, and other items. Receipts might be put in the envelopes as purchases are made or bills are paid. There would be ready access to the figures which could be tallied up at the end of the month. After listing these items for two or three months, the figures could be used as a base for charting money goals and making plans for the rest of the year.

The checkbook method is another easy way to keep record of expenditures, and this method has the advantage of providing evidence for income tax purposes. It requires having enough money in the bank to do business.

As you make up your record of

782

--- PAGE 781 (PDF page 812) ---
expenditures, you will be made aware of your actual spending practices, and where some seem unwise you will wish to plan changes. For example, if a teenage daughter wanted a new dress and her spending record showed a disproportionate amount spent on personal care, she would readily see where she could plan the use of her money to bring her greater satisfaction.

Real savings are possible when one sees the mistakes that have been made and ideas develop for the better use of resources.

Planning together as a family is a character-building activity which brings spiritual strength to the family and helps keep them from thinking only of the materialistic values of this world.

*Refer to "The Family Dollar," by Robert Daines in the April, 1963, Improvement Era for further information about this method.

LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 44 — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist (1837-1920)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 674-695)

For Third Meeting, January 1964

Objective: To define and exemplify American Realism by studying the life and writings of its prime spokesman.

"Remember that wherever life is simplest and purest and kindest, that is the highest civilization." This statement fairly represents William Dean Howells, one of the kindest and gentlest and most affectionate of America's influential writers. For more than sixty years the dominant passion of his life was to defend and enlarge such a philosophy, nonetheless, he became outmoded and forgotten many years before his death in 1920. Our own generation cannot forget him since we have never really known his name. Only a few teachers and literary historians remember him, and then, usually, as a literary scapegoat, scorned alike by the once-popular Romantics of the earlier nineteenth century and the "liberated" modern writers for whom he paved the way.

Yet he eminently deserves to be respected, read, and enjoyed. Affectionately known in his decades of literary and critical predominance as the Dean of American Letters, Mr. Howells spoke out courageously

783

--- PAGE 782 (PDF page 813) ---
OCTOBER 1963

and effectively as the literary conscience of the late nineteenth century. That he was read and heard and respected more widely than any other writer of his day, save possibly Twain, is sufficient justification for acknowledging his claim upon our time. Furthermore, those who read him will find in his pages an immediate reassurance and pleasure, provided, of course, they are Howells' type of people, namely the middle-class, average Americans whom he knew best and loved most. Finally, in his message to the young writers of his own day he emphasized the timeless values of integrity and truth when he said,

Do not trouble yourselves about standards or ideals; but try to be faithful and natural; and remember that there is no greatness, no beauty, which does not come from truth to your own knowledge of things (Kit & Kin Representative Selections, American Book Company, 1950, cxxxiii).

It is such values which comprise the essence of Realism, and of Howells himself.

THE FORMATIVE YEARS

Howells was born in 1837 in Martin's Ferry, Ohio, and spent his youth in several Ohio villages where his father ran the local newspaper. Belief in the goodness of all mankind and in the vital need for idealistic living and humanitarian reform were current in the air. His father was blessed with a great love of literature, and during the long, quiet evenings shared his delight in Thomson and Pope by reading their works aloud to his family. Young William grew up knowing with his family that "in every thought and in

every deed they were choosing their portion with the devils or the angels, and that God himself could not save them against themselves" (Ibid., xxiii).

When he was thirteen the Howells family spent a year living in a log cabin wilderness near Xenia, Ohio, where Father Howells and his two brothers had hoped to establish their own communal Utopia. When the experiment failed, the family moved to Ashtabula in the Western Reserve and went heavily in debt to buy the town newspaper. An experienced typesetter since he was nine, William worked in the print shop full time, thus being deprived of any formal education.

Possibly because the eight Howells children were, with some justification, regarded as "different"; or because William was extremely sensitive over a mentally retarded brother; or because he never grew taller than five feet four inches — for one reason or for all of them, William withdrew into the world of books, which he found so satisfying and exciting that all he wanted was more books. Though none of the normal pastimes and delights of a childhood in a typically casual and equally small town were unknown to him, as proved by his warm, mature remembrances of his youth as recorded in A Boy's Town, he was so driven by a desire to attain more literary knowledge that in his late teens he experienced a sort of mental breakdown when he could neither sleep nor work. And no wonder. During the day he absorbed from the old journeyman printers their great love of Shakespeare so that nights on end he sat

784

--- PAGE 783 (PDF page 814) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

in his little cubicle beneath the stairs reading until one or two o'clock.

With an old bookbinder he would sit up reading his beloved poetry of Heinrich Heine in the original until the book was worn out. With no other help than a dictionary, young Howells learned Greek and Latin and Spanish, all that he might read Dante's and Cervantes' original words. Thus he drove himself toward a goal which he could not even begin to define, and when his great chance came, he was ready. But when, as a famous author and editor, he was offered professorships of literature at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, he refused them, feeling that he was not qualified since "self-taught is half-taught." Yet he did not refuse honorary degrees from Yale, Oxford, and Columbia, nor need he have done so, for no one more fully deserved them.

As a competent young journalist, he did not hesitate to accept when someone asked him to write a campaign biography for Abraham Lincoln, whom he had never seen. But instead of interviewing him personally, he sent a law student to Illinois to gather material, and thus "I missed the greatest chance of my life." As a reward for Howell's efforts, Lincoln appointed him American Consul in Vienna where he spent the Civil War years getting acquainted with his lovely, understanding wife and, with typical industry, writing poetry and sketches which no one would publish. When after four years of intense diligence he saw only four short poems in print, he told a friend, in 1864, that "to write of literature makes my soul

sick within me." For him this was a long period of "waiting and defeat, which I thought would never end."

LITERARY SUCCESS

In 1860, dedicated Howells, then barely twenty-three, brashly used his earnings from the Lincoln biography to make his long-awaited literary pilgrimage to Boston and Concord. Without hesitation, this unknown upstart from the uncultivated prairies of the Western Reserve called on the retiring Hawthorne, was cordially entertained, and was sent to the august Emerson bearing Hawthorne's abrupt but just summary, "I find this young man worthy." James Russell Lowell, then editor of the newly established Atlantic Monthly, was so impressed that he arranged a dinner in honor of Howells, inviting Oliver Wendell Holmes and James T. Fields, who succeeded Lowell as editor, and who offered Howells the position of assistant editor in 1866. He emphasized that the appointment was an economy measure designed to take advantage of Howells' experience and skill at correcting copy. So effectively did he serve that, five years later in 1871, he was appointed editor, a position which he filled most brilliantly for the next ten years, when he resigned to devote himself completely to his writing. How uniquely American, and what a vindication of democratic principles to have an uneducated printer's son from the untamed West chosen to shape the destinies of the new Nation's most sophisticated literary publication!

785