[Vol50 | September | Magazine Page 672 | PDF Page 699]
[Title: From the Palms of a Princess to a Place in Normandy]

--- PAGE 671 (PDF page 698) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH: Market Place on the Way to Rouen]

As the day passed, I saw my husband's shoulders commencing to sag. I must say, however, that the fun of taking a car is that one may stop for the night whenever he finds the shadows lengthening. He may also get acquainted with the people of the country. I began to look around.

"How is this?" I asked, glancing over my shoulder at an ancient-looking house above the highway. The upper walls were cobbled. A squat tower rose, time-seasoned and square, from one corner of the building. There seemed to be an atmosphere of quaint and charming hospitality.

We drove up the slope of the embankment to the Hotel of the Bells, but we found no one around.

Below the mound where we stood, separating the road from the field, an apple orchard in bloom cast its perfume. The descent of the land toward the tributary to the Seine was grass-green, fresh with uncut hay and unripened wheat. The porch of the hotel overlooked a lawn and a few small flower beds. Thatched umbrellas were open above half a dozen red-painted tables. We caught the sound of a brook and its marshy odor. Even the silence of the house seemed inviting; but where was our host?

673

--- PAGE 672 (PDF page 699) ---
SEPTEMBER 1963

IN rough dress and leather apron, a farmer ran up from the fields. In scanted French, on my part, we conversed. He promised dinner, along with a room. On the third story, we found things even more "ruffled-curtain" in style than we had expected. We also found cleanliness, our own washbowl, and hot running water.

While we were still abovestairs, two German girls took two rooms on the same floor. The intermediate floor must have been given over to the family, but downstairs again, I saw no one. Our host had disappeared. I could not smell the first flavor of dinner. I peeked into the indoor dining room. There was no sign of life, and so I entered the kitchen. There I discovered a lovely cheese; but the only inhabitants in that shining room were three or four red ants that seemed to be longing for the Camembert. It was screened.

I heard the girls come down. I said, "Did you see any place along the road where we might eat?" They had arrived from a direction opposite to ours.

They looked surprised. I spread my hands, indicating there was nothing here. The splendid copper pans and skillets in the kitchen were as bare as Mother Hubbard's cupboard.

At this moment our master of the inn bounded up the steps of the porch. "Oui, oui, oui!" Yes, yes, yes, he assured us; but certainly we should have dinner.

[PHOTOGRAPH: On the Crest of the Hills Above the Seine]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Hotel of the Bells, Corneville, Normandy - showing a half-timbered building with "HOSTELLERIE DES CLOCHES" sign]

--- PAGE 673 (PDF page 700) ---
"How?" I asked, with only half a smile. "Where, when?"
"But now," he replied brightly. "Sit wherever you wish, indoors or out."

My husband and I chose the garden, a little dubious, perhaps. The girls took their table. We chatted across the lawn from beneath our respective umbrellas, as we sat in the yellow chairs. Evening was falling; the air was gentle, neither too cool nor too damp. Our host appeared, transformed in a white jacket. He brought a large pitcher of cider. "Le cidre, le cidre!" He fairly glowed as he filled our tumblers. I glanced at the apple trees; I recognized the secret of this absolutely delicious, unfermented beverage.

The soup also struck the palate as something only the Normans could concoct. From where had it come? Who had prepared this creamy essence? What herbs had seasoned it so delicately? This I did not know. There was no one to ask. Our host had vanished again.

But here he came again, quick as ever! This time he appeared from behind the hedge that concealed the brook. The sound of the running water had given its course away, but not its fruit. That was reserved for the host. "Les fruits, les fruits!" our man boasted, with a rare smile. The trout, the trout! His triumphant note was supported by the leaping fish within the net.

The wait for the entrée did not seem long as we listened to the stream

[ILLUSTRATION]
Detail From the Tapestry of Matilda

--- PAGE 674 (PDF page 701) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH: The Countryside — Bread Basket on Wheels]

and smelled the perfumes of the evening, as we compared notes with the girls on our travels in Normandy. They, too, were headed for Bayeux and the tapestry of Matilda, the Queen of William the Conqueror. But hush, here came the fish, browned in butter and served with new potatoes and green peas right out of the garden. We spread the French bread with sweet butter. We felt triumphant.

To close the evening with a special courtesy, our host took us with him when he went to the tower to play the bells. They had been forged in a nearby foundry to commemorate the legend of the primitive bells of Corneville. These had been drowned in the Seine when being removed from the abbey during an invasion of the English in the Hundred Years' War. Legend declares that if one listens carefully, he may catch the sound of those first bells, where it rises today through the ebb and the swell of the waves of the Seine.

Our host played his keyboard with felted hammers, like a marimba. In answer to his touch, we heard a deep-throated tune, altogether musical: fa . . . la . . . mi . . . it commenced. High, low, up, on a long pause.

THE next evening we were at Bayeux, almost within sound of the sea, on the River Aure. We had lunched at the inn of the Golden Lion in Pont l'Eveque. Again our meal was like a miracle. We arrived late. We were served, piping hot, an unforgettable sole with cream sauce and fresh mushrooms heaped against parsleyed new potatoes and green peas. Another miracle of France!

Toward evening we again stood hand in hand with history. In Bayeux the Romans had also built. But let us skip a thousand years and go to

676