[Vol50 | August | Magazine Page 616 | PDF Page 639]
[Title: Theology — "We Are on the Lord's Errand"]

--- PAGE 615 (PDF page 638) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

accepted the meaning of "Ye are on the Lord's errand." When Brother Morley accepted the gospel in 1830, his life thereafter was dedicated to the furtherance of the cause of Zion. One can believe that he accepted the commandment to sell his farm, as mentioned in verse 20 of Section 64. He is described as a man of loyalty to God's servants who was willing to consecrate all of his wealth to building up Zion while participating in numerous Church positions. (ROMNEY, THOMAS C.: The Gospel in Action, pp. 113-118.)

On the other hand, Ezra Booth lives in infamy in the annals of the Church. He is sometimes mentioned as an example of one who was converted by a miracle. The wife of Father Johnson was unable to raise her arm for two years. As a friend of the family, Ezra Booth, a Methodist priest, was present when the Prophet Joseph Smith and the elders administered to her, restoring her arm to instant use. Soon after this healing, Booth was baptized. President George A. Smith said that when Booth had to preach without purse or scrip, he felt that there were better ways of "earning" a livelihood. The Prophet reported that when Booth learned,

... that faith, humility, patience, and tribulation go before blessing, and that God brings low before He exalts; that instead of the "Savior's granting him power to smite men and make them believe," (as he said he wanted God to do in his own case when he found he must become all things to all men, that he might peradventure save some; and that, too, by all diligence, by perils by sea and land, as was the case in the days of Jesus — then he was disappointed. (DHC I: 61.)

Under these circumstances Booth apostatized and, as is true with many apostates, he sought to justify himself by publishing a series of lying letters as evidence against the Church. His apostasy contributed to the organization of a mob that tarred and feathered Joseph Smith, and caused the death of one of his adopted children. (DHC I: 260-265.)

Edward Partridge at this time was guilty of "unbelief and blindness of heart." "Unbelief," in this case means 'weak faith' (as in Mark 9:24), and it was, perhaps, the cause of the blindness of heart" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 339). Again, the faithful, diligent member who errs, corrects his life, and learns that the Lord is merciful and forgiving (D & C 64:17.)

A STRONG HOLD IN KIRTLAND

During this period the establishment of the Church in two general areas was begun. Kirtland, Ohio, became the headquarters of the Church. With the designation of western Missouri as Zion, and the dedication of the land and the temple site, that area began its part in the growing Church. Many saints felt the urge to assemble in Missouri. Sidney Gilbert was commanded to establish a business in Zion (D & C 64:18), while Frederick G. Williams was to retain his holdings in Kirtland that a strong hold might be maintained there. (Ibid., verse 21.) This verse is a prophecy that was literally fulfilled by subsequent events. In verse 26, Newel K. Whitney and Sidney Gilbert are counseled to retain their store and their possessions so that

617

--- PAGE 616 (PDF page 639) ---
AUGUST 1963

the Lord's purposes for Kirtland might be fulfilled. After five years "any with an open heart" was free to assemble in the land of Zion. (Ibid., vers 52.)

What did the Lord have in store for Kirtland in five years from then? On April 3, 1836, the Kirtland Temple became the most important edifice on the earth at that time. By the labor of the saints, amid poverty and persecution, the Lord had commanded that this holy house should be reared to his name, that he might visit his people in that structure. It was there that the capstone of Priesthood keys was received by Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery from personages from beyond the veil. (Section 110.) That event, April 3, 1836, brought a turning point in world events by the restoration of keys of Priesthood pertaining to the gathering of Israel from the corners of the earth. As a result of this authority, Latter-day Saints have come out of the world into a life of "being on the Lord's errand." The gathering includes the restoration of the Jewish people to their homeland, long predicted by Bible and Book of Mormon prophets. (Jer. 30:3; 2 Nephi 30:7-8.) The great missionary movement of the Church began its world-wide activity after Moses restored these keys. The bringing of the gospel of Abraham with the keys of the restoration of all things (D & C 110:12), and, finally, the keys of sealing powers for the living and the dead, with the important work of salvation for the dead by Elijah, began a tremendous activity for the salvation of man. (Ibid., 13-16.)

The Lord Jesus Christ visited his temple at that time to accept it as his house with the message that this would be the beginning of the blessings to be received for the benefit of his people. (Ibid., verses 1-10.) When one considers the impact of these events upon the future of the Church and the world, one can easily understand why some of the saints were commanded to continue their daily activities in Kirtland. Their work was also to help the saints "obtain an inheritance in the land of Zion" (D & C 64:30).

COUNSEL ON DEBT

The members of the Church mentioned in Section 64 (and the other saints) were counseled to keep out of debt to their enemies. (Verses 27-28.) For the Church to be in debt to those who were unfriendly might have brought failure to the cause of Zion in that area. The instructions given about retaining material possessions and keeping out of debt remind the Latter-day Saint that the Lord provides his people with counsel in their temporal affairs. As to individuals, the authorities of the Church have advised our people against the burden of debt. Elder Marriner W. Merrill told a general conference of the Church that a financier gave him the key to getting out of debt. "It was simply this: 'Stop immediately from going into debt. Don't go into debt another dollar until you get out and are free'" (Conference Report, April 1899, page 15).

"YE ARE LAYING THE FOUNDATION"

As one studies the beginning of this dispensation, he sometimes wonders if the membership of the

618

--- PAGE 640 --- ERROR: Error code: 400 - {'type': 'error', 'error': {'type': 'invalid_request_error', 'message': 'Output blocked by content filtering policy'}, 'request_id': 'req_011CYrcTKaX5D3YD1g7bmksj'}

--- PAGE 618 (PDF page 641) ---
AUGUST 1963

able to observe the law of consecration. The law of tithing is a stepping stone, and it is a law that will abide forever, because a great majority possibly of the children of God will not be able to reach the higher law (Conference Report, October 1899, page 34).

It was in July 1838, that the Lord commanded his people to observe the law of tithing. Yet, in 1831, the saints were informed that certain judgments would come upon those who did not observe this law when it was introduced. Tithing also has the connotation of sacrifice as suggested in verse 23 of Section 64.

On the law of tithing and obedience, President Joseph F. Smith said:

"Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." It is the heart and the willing mind that the Lord requires of His people, and not so much their substance. He does not need our obedience. But we need to be obedient, for it is through obedience that we will receive the reward.

So I come to the conclusion that the principal thing about tithing is paying obedience to the law, and that more good will come to us through that obedience than to anybody else. We may be worth our tens of thousands, and pay no honest tithing on our income, making our tithing a large amount; yet the good that will come to ourselves by being obedient to the law of God will be far greater in the end than the good which our substance may do to the poor (Conference Report, April 1899, page 69).

"THE HEART AND A WILLING MIND"

The heart is associated in scripture as the seat of emotions, and when applied to this scripture it probably means that only those who love the Lord intensely will reap the blessings.

Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and

obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days (D & C 64:34).

The saints of 1831 were no different from the saints of 1963 in the Lord requiring whole-souled devotion to the labor of the kingdom.

Those who are "on the Lord's errand" all the days of their lives will not come under the condemnation of the rebellious who shall be cut off from the land of Zion, for these are not of the chosen seed of Ephraim and must be plucked out. (D & C 64:35-36.) In commenting upon the context of these verses, President George Q. Cannon said:

From the beginning of this Church until the present the men and women who have been obedient to the counsel of God's servants have always been the most favored. President [Brigham] Young, during the lifetime of the Prophet Joseph, was always noted for his strict obedience to the prophet. Brother Joseph never made any requirement of him that he did not strictly comply with. The same may be said of the other faithful men who, during his lifetime, were associated with him. But the disobedient and rebellious have been, as the Lord said they should be, cut off. Oliver Cowdery was with Joseph when John the Baptist came to them and ordained them to the Aaronic Priesthood. He was the second apostle of the Church also, and a witness of the Book of Mormon, the angel of the Lord having shown him the plates. But he was disobedient to the prophet and he could not stand. It might be thought that he was so near to Joseph and so favored of God that it was not necessary for him to do exactly as the prophet told him; but not so. There is an order in the church of Christ which all must observe, and no one can be disobedient without bringing the displeasure of the Lord upon him. This is a principle which all should learn (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 10, 1875, page 222).

In the historical content of Section 64, verses 34 to 36 are prophetic. When the saints were ex-

620