[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 210 | PDF Page 221]
[Title: Globalization Is Realization]

--- PAGE 209 (PDF page 220) ---
Is Realization                    Joan H. Haskins

a time of quiet evaluation and self-discovery. We might listen to classical music, study a painting, or read a fine piece of literature. The important thing is the thought processes that accompany these acts, not merely to look with our eyes, but to understand with our souls.

Many of our great philosophers have found their period of contemplation can best be accomplished while walking. The Chinese have a wonderful proverb that says: "Man who walks through countryside sees much more than man who runs." Sometimes we become guilty of running through life, trying to accomplish so much that we die before we ever have a chance to live.

Try escaping from the hubbub of the crowded streets by visiting a secluded hillside, a grove, or a meadow. Learn to pause and absorb the beauty of your surroundings. Study each flower, shrub, or insect rather than merely glancing at these marvelous microcosms.

Observe how many leaves a plant has, try to determine the exact shade of the flower, and note the structure of the center of the bud. We go through life snatching fragments of beauty, never pausing to study its intricate forms.

The ancient Greeks practiced the art of contemplation in its highest degree. Aristotle, in his book on Ethics, tells us that the activity which surpasses all others in blessedness, is that of contemplation.

Ralph Waldo Emerson, great naturalist, felt that all things are answerable in nature if we but seek and study. Emerson's comment, "If a man be alone, let him look at the stars," stresses the need that he felt for solitude and for an examination of the universe.

Certainly, through contemplation, we become aware that it is life's spiritual values that supersede its material ones. As children of God, it is our role to develop an understanding and appreciation for all of his creations so that we can live in harmony with them and with ourselves.

Announcing the Special Short Story Issue

THE April 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding short stories being presented. Look for these stories in April:

"Strange Bond," by Thelma Grube          "A Load of Hay," by Ilene H. Kingsbury
"Strictly for Silence," by Dorothy Clapp Robinson     "If at First," by Ruth G. Rothe

211

--- PAGE 210 (PDF page 221) ---
EVENTIDE

Frances C. Yost

BONNIE Sharpton glanced at the clock. It was getting late and Charles hadn't come home. She shouldn't have let the children talk her into staying up to see their daddy.

"Some women are just plain lucky to have a man on an eight-hour day. My Charlie puts in ten to twelve hours, and I put in an hour before he leaves, and two hours after he gets home. And that isn't counting the night shift when the children call for water or have a stomachache."

Connie stopped short. She didn't want to start talking to herself. Just then the door opened and Charlie walked in.

Larry and Mary rushed to their father and wrapped their arms and legs about him. Poor, tired Charlie, he looked as if he had been ensnared by an octopus. She was proud to be the mother of twins, but no one who hadn't had the experience of rearing twins could possibly believe the mischief two the same age could concoct.

Charlie was smiling as he fondled the children, but when he looked up at Connie, she knew it had been one of those off days. She wouldn't ask how things had gone for him. It was best not to mention it. This salesman work on a commission was hard on a man, and for that matter hard on his wife. Occasionally there were good days, though they never balanced out the poor ones.

Charles dropped into a chair, yet he didn't relax. His feet were tapping the rug and his hands were tapping the arm rest. It was as if his feet were beating the pavements, and his knuckles knocking on doors.

"Please, Connie, get the children off to bed. I'm starved to death."

"Yes, dear."

Connie hurried Larry and Mary up the stairway before her. Every bone in her legs ached. And the hardest part of the day was yet before her, getting the twins settled down for the night. If she had another time of it getting them asleep as she had last night! Connie sighed, thinking about it. Larry had started a pillow fight with a torn, leaky pillow and Connie figured she would be picking up feathers when snow fell next Christmas.

Connie pulled a chair between the twin beds and sat down. It felt good to get off her feet.

"Mother, read us a story."

"It's too late, Mary."

"But you promised," Larry chided.

"I read earlier in the evening. Have you forgotten?"

Was it going to be another riot like last night? Connie promised herself she wouldn't think about last night. She must discipline her memory. Why was putting children to bed such a nightmare for her? When she was a child it had

212

--- PAGE 211 (PDF page 222) ---
been a joy to drop off to sleep in her soft feather bed. She could almost feel her mother's cool hand on her forehead. "What had she said. . . ?

"Connie, honey, you've been a good little girl all day today. You helped Mother every time with the dishes, and you threaded the needle when Mother's old eyes couldn't see the little needle's eye. You dusted the parlor ever so well. You were a little jewel all day long. Mother will sing a song or two, so close your eyes and rest. 'Go to sleep my pickaninny. It's time for a little child to rest. . . .'"

WHAT had her mother had at bedtime that Connie didn't have? Connie pondered the thought. Cooly and logically, Connie studied the problem in her mind. Like a hard rain on the windowpane, the difference struck Connie on her forehead. Her own mother had known the value of a lullaby.

Lullabies seemed to be a forgotten art in this atomic age. Yet music had played an important part in the history of man. Why, even before earth life, according to the Good Book, the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. At Christ's birth, angels had come near the earth and sung peace on earth and joy to the world.

How long had it been since she herself had even touched the keys on her own piano? She should be teaching the twins to sing. Vaguely, Connie remembered a great poet named Congreve had once said, "Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast, to soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak."

Why hadn't she tried a lullaby instead of all this fussing and jangling with the children every night? Now, when the children were toddlers was the time to instill an incipient love of music in her youngster's hearts.

Connie reached her arms out, and put a cool hand on each overheated little forehead, as they lay in their twin beds on either side. Then she started singing softly.

"Go to sleep, my pickaninny. It's time for little childs to rest. Daytime is over and night has just begun. Cuddle up your Mammie's breast. You can hear the night birds calling. It's time for little childs to rest. The sandman's coming. Your Mammie's humming a Georgia lullaby."

Connie followed it with another lullaby, then let her voice fade completely away. Both little children had dropped off into a deep sleep. She tiptoed softly from their room, and started down the stairway.

Charles stood there at the foot of the stairway. He was smiling up at her. "Say, that was right pretty. It sort of relaxed me, sitting here as you sang to the children."

Connie suddenly realized she, too, wasn't as upset and tense as she had been. She felt more relaxed and calmed down. Her lullaby had had a wonderful effect on the entire family.

Connie smiled lovingly at Charles, and said, "Oh. . . ." When she came to the last step where he was waiting for her, her lips were still rounded from the "oh," and he kissed her, lightly, but not too lightly.

213

--- PAGE 212 (PDF page 223) ---
The Power of Protein

Flora H. Bardwell and Ethelwyn B. Wilcox
Department of Food and Nutrition
Utah State University

ONE of the best friends a "body" has is protein — in fact, it makes up a large percentage of the total body.

All that makes you — your skin, hair, eyes, nails, your muscles, are proteins.

Most of all that makes you "go" — the blood, lymph, heart and lungs, tendons and muscles, ligaments, brains and nerves are also proteins. You are largely what protein has made you. You will probably become the result of the protein you enjoy in your food each day.

Protein, next to water, is the most plentiful substance in the body. The proteins that make up this large per cent of the body are not there as fixed, unchanging substance, like building blocks deposited for a lifetime of use. They are in a constant state of exchange within the body tissues. Some protein molecules are always breaking down, and others are being built as replacements. This is why every day our intake of food must supply the necessary protein, even when we no longer need it for growth.

Protein, in addition to building body tissues and muscle, regulates body processes and can also supply energy to the body when needed. If other sources of energy are available, protein will be used to carry out its own special functions of building and repairing tissues and of regulating body functions. If other energy sources are not available, the body will use protein for energy, thus depriving the muscles and other tissues of needed protein. Hence, a day's supply of food must necessarily include not only adequate protein, but also a balance of the other energy foods, the fats and carbohydrates.

A third function of protein is its use for growth; however maintenance of body functions comes first in need. If not enough protein is supplied by the diet for both growth and maintenance, growth is retarded. Hence, this provides another reason for maintaining sufficient protein every day.

Proteins are made up of more simple substances called amino acids. There are eighteen amino acids which are used in different combinations in our common foods. These amino acids are linked together in the protein molecule much as the cars of a train are coupled together to make a freight or passenger train. In the body all food proteins are broken down into amino acids which are then rebuilt into specific body proteins using different combinations than occurred in the food.

All of these amino acids are essential to life and health, but only eight must be completely formed in the food and ready for use. The others can be made in the body from

214