[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 191 | PDF Page 202]
[Title: Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

--- PAGE 190 (PDF page 201) ---
Let's have a bake party

Mary S. Kemp

A delightful way to spend a young kind of birthday is to have a "bake" party. The kindergarten age is ideal for such a party. Children love to feel bigger than they are, and at this type of party they are giant-sized. Every small child enjoys helping his mother bake, and this can sometimes be quite a trial to a busy mother. At a "bake" party, the children can literally put a "finger in every pie."

A bake party, to be successful, must be carefully planned. Six children, about five years old, are a sufficient number to manage. Enthusiasm for the party is developed well in advance by invitations which might be written on baker's hats drawn on construction paper:

Friday's "bake" day at our house,
And Mother needs a crew
To make pies and cakes and rolls
And even cookies, too.

My birthday we will celebrate
And bakers we'll become.
Each thing we make is ours to keep,
And we'll take our bake goods home.

The party will begin at nine.
At noon we'll have a lunch.
Please come with hands and face well scrubbed
And join this baker's bunch.

In order for the small, purposeful guests to achieve, certain advance preparations are important. Baker's hats and aprons serve to turn the children into gourmet chefs and to protect the party clothes as well.

Instructions for the apron and hat:

Apron
1. Cut out of unbleached muslin the apron according to the diagram. Allow enough additional border to hem.

192

--- PAGE 191 (PDF page 202) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH: Children wearing white chef hats and aprons with gingerbread man decorations, appearing to be at a party or event]

2. Cut the shoulder strap 18" by 3¼". Fold in two, seam, and turn inside out. Sew to one side of the apron as illustrated. Leave the other side free so that it can be adjusted by pin to the size of the guest.

3. The side ties must be 32" long so they can tie in front as real baker's aprons do.

4. The pocket is placed in the center of the bib section of the apron.

5. The apron may be trimmed with embroidered figures shaped from cookie cutters.

Hat

1. Cut a circle out of unbleached muslin 21 inches in diameter. Gather the edges to fit the band (about 20 inches).

2. Cut a band 21" by 5½". Interline the band with buckram or other stiffening. Hem the lower edge and join the ends with a ½" seam.

3. Baste the gathered circle to the edge of the band, right sides facing. Then sew on the machine.

4. Embroider a cookie character in the center of the hat.

5. If necessary, adjust the head size to the guest by a small safety pin at the band seam.

[ILLUSTRATION: Sewing pattern diagram showing measurements for apron pieces and chef hat, with dimensions marked in inches]

--- PAGE 192 (PDF page 203) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Each successful baker needs the proper implements. Small participants call for small size pie tins, angel food cake pans, loaf tins, and rolling pins, which can be taken home, of course. The use of Mother's cookie sheets and cookie cutters is allowed, however.

A variety of recipes gives the party a certain allure. Banana cream pie, cup cakes, angel food cake, cloverleaf rolls, sugar cookies, and a batch of fudge keep the guests busy for an entire morning.

Childish impatience will not wait for full preparation during the party. Well in advance, with the aid of cake mixes, the cup cakes and angel food cakes should be baked. Do not remove the angel food cakes from the pans. A batch of fudge can be divided among the six wee loaf tins. The freezer will keep things fresh until party day.

The night before the party, the dough for the sugar cookies and cloverleaf rolls can be made and refrigerated. Prior to the start of the party, the pie dough should be mixed, the cream filling prepared, and also the cake icings.

THE children are greeted with the aprons and hats, and led to a well-scrubbed kitchen table. The party begins without delay:

1. Each child is given a ball of the previously refrigerated roll dough. The children are instructed to roll small balls of the dough with their hands, placing three balls in each section of a muffin tin. Soon the six rolls for each child are completed.

2. While the rolls are rising, the cookie dough can be distributed. With the bit-size rolling pins on the well-floured table, the children roll and cut their cookies. During this period the rolls are baked.

3. With the working area still floured, it is an excellent time to begin

194

--- PAGE 193 (PDF page 204) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH: Children in white chef hats and aprons standing around a table with baked goods including pies and cakes]

pies. After rolling the dough and patting into their pie tins a crust, the children turn the pie pan tops of glasses and learn to trim the crust edges with their hand. The cookies are baked while the pie crusts are being made. Be sure each child has his own section of the drainboard or another table on which to display his finished goods.

4. As the pie crusts bake, the children are busily engaged in frosting the angel food cakes and decorating them with candies. Also, at this period, the fudge is carefully cut by the bakers into serving pieces.

5. The high peak of the party is the completing of the pies. A layer of filling, a half of a banana sliced carefully, another layer of filling, and a meringue topping (prepared as the children work) make the pies ready for browning.

6. The concluding activity is the decorating of the cup cakes. The licking of fingers, sticky faces, and the tasting of various trims are all permissible at this point. Each child has a birthday candle for his favorite cup cake. Four to six cup cakes should be given to each guest.

The party should begin about nine A.M. in order to complete the baking by noon. The tired and hungry children by then are ready for a lunch of peanut butter, jelly, cheese, and tuna fish open-faced, animal-shaped sandwiches (which can be prepared the night before and refrigerated). A few potato chips, jello, and a glass of milk complete the lunch.

It might be noted that busy children are well-behaved, and children who accomplish are anxious to go home promptly and "show Mother." Each child should have his bake goods and pans placed in a box or on a cookie sheet and should have an escort home to avoid an unnecessary catastrophe.

Such a party as this will prove to be a talking point for many days and a memory for many years.

195