[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 204 | PDF Page 215]
[Title: Make a Dolurium]

--- PAGE 203 (PDF page 214) ---
FOR WORK MEETING

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young

[ILLUSTRATION: White umbrella with decorative ribbon details on red background]

The roses can be made from any width ribbon. So-called number 9 ribbon (1½ inch) is the most popular and will make about a two-inch diameter rose. The best type of ribbon, and also the most inexpensive, is regular florist acetate rayon ribbon. It can be bought by the bolt (100 yards) at about $1.60. Each little rose costs about one-half cent.

205

--- PAGE 204 (PDF page 215) ---
Procedure

Cut a piece of No. 9 ribbon about 20 inches long. Have the wrong side of the ribbon toward you. Fold the right-hand end of the ribbon at an angle, leaving about an inch tail (Figure 1). Roll the fold about 3 or 4 turns very tightly, to form a core for the center of the rose (Figure 2). Next, fold the ribbon from the top back away from you with your left hand forming an angle (Figure 3). Roll core in one or two loose turns, almost to the end of the fold. Again fold the top edge of ribbon back, forming a new angle — notice it is the opposite side of the ribbon this time (Figure 4). Roll the core in loosely about a half turn, then make a new fold. These folds should not be more than 1½ inches long, depending on the width of the ribbon. Continue in this manner until you have the desired size rose, or until only an inch of ribbon is left (Figures 5 and 6). To finish, tuck the end piece down as neatly as possible and wire the tails with florist wire (Figure 7). The ends of the ribbon may need to be trimmed. Next, tape the stem with floratape and place a rose calyx under the flower. Place a leaf behind the flower to frame the rose.

Wreath or Heart of Ribbon Bows and Roses

Materials needed:

Styrofoam circle or heart
No. 16 or 18 wire
No. 9 floral acetate ribbon

To make ribbon bows, begin with shiny side of ribbon toward you. Grasp in middle and crumple slightly, looping ribbon back away from you, twisting as it comes up to middle each time so as to keep shiny side on outside of bow.

206

--- PAGE 205 (PDF page 216) ---
RIBBONS AND ROSES

Make as many loops as you wish. Usually three double loops make a nice bow for corsages, packages, etc. Wire securely at middle, twisting wire tightly around middle of ribbon. Caution should be used so that wire will be sufficiently deep so that it will not work loose or to tear ribbon. Bow may then be gently pressed into styrofoam circle or heart and hold bow tightly. Add bows until circle or heart is covered. Add roses, holly, fruit, or ornaments as desired.

[ILLUSTRATIONS of various ribbon bows and rose arrangements]

Bridal Bouquets and Corsages

Bridal bouquets are enlargements of the small corsage. Groupings of single roses and leaves are placed one below the other, usually in groups of threes or fives, with as many as the size needed demands. Floral wax wrap secures the roses and leaves to the wire stems. Bows made like the ones used in the wreath are placed either in the middle of the grouping or at the base to complete the corsage or bouquet. In the bridal bouquet, long streamers may be left on the ends of the bows and knotted here and there. Covered millinery wire works very well for the forming of bows and making of roses, but when putting them together a heavier wire is needed. Either No. 16 or No. 18 wire works very well.

A nosegay may be made by clustering bows and roses in a circular pattern and adding plastic lace backing. Tiny nosegays make lovely place cards at announcement or birthday parties.

[ILLUSTRATION of candle arrangement with roses]

An attractive table arrangement can be made by placing a large candle in the center of a cone and surrounding it with bows and roses, with a wreath of roses and leaves twined up the candle itself. A small hole cut in a base of styrofoam can be used to support the candle. Florist clay will hold the candle in place (see below).

The basic small corsage gives a finishing touch to a gift package for any occasion. A single rose and leaf glued or tied on a glass canister filled with homemade cookies or candies makes a cheerful gift for shut-ins.

[ILLUSTRATIONS of gift packages with ribbon roses]

(Table display — pattern for ribbon roses and ideas for their use by Sue Ballantyne, Portland Stake)

(Illustrations for Ribbons and Roses
Gloria Hermanson, Bountiful Stake)

207

--- PAGE 206 (PDF page 217) ---
Make a Zabaton

Jennie R. Scott
Member, General Board of Relief Society

THE tables marked "This and That From Here and There" displayed a number of interesting items. The large pillow in the center of this picture is a Zabaton, or Oriental pillow, which can be used on the floor or on a couch or bed. It is made from a square of material of any size. Usually those for the floor are made from a 36-inch square or larger — a 36-inch square of material makes a 25-inch square zabaton. The zabaton is a favorite of decorators and is an excellent way to use remnants.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young

Material needed:

A square of material — bright print, velveteen, drapery material, pure silk.
Floss for tassels.
Cotton bat, dacron bat, or celuclouid bat (synthetic cotton) for filling. Use 1 pound of batting for an 18-inch square, 1½ pounds for a 27-inch square, and 3 pounds or more for a 36-inch square of material.

208