Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1888
"For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NaTIONs"
THE TWENTY-FOURTH: The commemoration of the anniversary of the entrance of the Pioneers into this valley was celebrated last month with appropriate services in the large Tabernacle, an immense concourse of people being in attendance. It was forty-one years since the company of Pioneers arrived where Salt Lake City now stands. The grand organ was handsomely draped with the stars and stripes, and a steel engraving of President Brigham Young hung in the centre among the national colors. Underneath it a banner bore the one word "Unity." The three stands were draped with national flags, and the platform in front of the stands, used on such occasions, was tastefully ornamented with flowers and plants in bloom. On one side was the head and horns of a buffalo, with its long, shaggy hair, and on the other the very old flag of stars and stripes, that was flung out to the mountain breeze from Ensign Peak on their first visit to the mountains, two days after their arrival.

Wilford Woodruff

APPRECIATION: I have been very much gratified with the literary attainments and pleasant tone of the editorials in your paper. I have certainly a very different idea of the trials and struggles of the Mormon Pioneers, from what I had before. I wanted to know the standing of the women rights' advocates, among your people, and I have been gratified indeed.

Mrs. A. Clark, Nantucket, R. I.

Fair are the flowers and the children, but their subtle suggestion is fairer; Rare is the rose burst of dawn, but the secret that clasps it is rarer. Sweet the exultance of song, but the strain that precedes it is sweeter, And never was the poem yet writ, but the meaning out-mastered the metre.

Richard Realf

NOTES AND NEWS: The announcement that Louisa M. Alcott's home at Concord, Mass., is to be sold, leads to the suggestion that it be bought by subscription and converted into a home for poor children, as a memorial to the author so well beloved by young readers.

Sarah M. Pomeroy, Secretary

EDITORIAL NOTES: The Deseret University, with its facilities for education, its modern improvements, the delightful grounds, and the suitable situation, enclosed, as it is, and shaded on all sides, is, indeed, a desirable locality for such an institution. It has the advantage, also, of an able Faculty, and ought to rank high as a seat of learning.