Aunt Millenium spoke heartily.
Andrew and, "yes," then he said "yes" again in a different way, and looked very pleased.
"Oh!" said Lavinia Elizabeth and she put on her glasses and stared at him.

Jake started the horses, and we went to the barn to unload.

Andrew shared Toby's room. He and Lavinia Elizabeth worked very hard on the book.
"About the chaos of the Copernican age . . ." began Lavinia Elizabeth.
"You look very different with a sun-tan," interrupted Andrew.

They had put a table on the back porch and were working there.
"I'm very pleased about the book," said Great-Aunt Millenium.

After supper one night, Great-Aunt Millenium came up to our room. "I'll help you with your hair," she said to Lavinia. Lavinia Elizabeth looked very young in her nightgown, sitting on her bare feet.
"How is your book progressing?"
"Well," said Lavinia Elizabeth, "the book . . . well, the book is fine, I guess." Then she got up and kissed Great-Aunt Millenium on the cheek. "I don't know exactly what's progressing," she said and her cheeks looked very red.

"There should be more box-elders than this with those peanuts," said Papa.
He had turned very brown in the sun also.
"It beats me," he said.

"Say," said Papa to Aunt Millenium, "is Jake always this taciturn?"
"Well, he don't talk more than most of the people here."
"You know," said Andrew, "the first Sunday we went to church after I arrived, the bishop said this town was more like New England than any place in the West. The people are lovable only after you know them."
"I believe it," said Papa, "at any rate, the put about New England." He yawned.
"If I'm not hungry, I'm sleepy."

They'll never know me this fall back at school."
"Well, none of us are very pale any more," said Mama, through her mask of cold cream which she seemed to wear a great deal of the time. "I'd wear this in the coop, but the effect might be fatal," she said.
Andrew and Lavinia Elizabeth went out for walks often after dinner. One evening they came into the house and into the parlor where we were all sitting.
"We've been out for some fresh air, Elizabeth and I," said Andrew.
"There is certainly a lot of fresh air outside," he added heartily.
Lavinia Elizabeth and Andrew went to find it more and more difficult to make conversation with us," remarked Papa.
Great-Aunt Millenium smiled while she tatted. She rubbed her cat with her foot. "It'll be different after he ask you for her," said Great-Aunt Millenium.
"Oh," I said looking up, "is it a kind of a secret now?" AUNT MILLENIUM'S I had been reading a great many of Great-Aunt Millenium's hidden novels. "Oh," I repeated. "Oh!" said Papa. Mama smiled at Aunt Millenium through her cold cream. Toby yawned. The summer was nearly over, and we all decided the peanut crop was a failure, even though Papa had had a triumphant afternoon when the plants had really sprouted. The only trouble was the peanuts at the other end had failed to materialize as they did in the picture. "Not enough time, I guess," said Papa moodily. He had had to take a great many comments from the townspeople who frequently stopped to inspect his peanut crop. The book was finished, yet Andrew kept hanging around. "He's getting up the courage," said Great-Aunt Millenium. "Well, I wish he'd hurry," said Papa, "the whole thing makes me very nervous." Lavinia Elizabeth would sit before our mirror after we were supposed to be in bed. She would take off her glasses and Jean forward, and then she would smile at herself. It was late August when Andrew and Papa went walking up to see the failed peanut crop. When they came back, we knew it was over, and Great-Aunt Millenium cooked a big special dinner in honor of Andrew and Lavinia Elizabeth. It was all very romantic. I did not even mind the chance drops of water slipping down my face from my curls, I was so interested in watching them. Lavinia Elizabeth smiled at Andrew and he smiled at her. I felt a lump in my throat when Lavinia Elizabeth would be so lovely just with smiling at Andrew. Papa smiled at Mama and Great-Aunt Millenium. "Well, we made a mistake or two," said Papa.
"Never mind," said Mama. Papa leaned back in his chair. "But nothing that can't be repaired by a good extra hired man next summer," he said. "Well, we'll certainly plow up the peanuts you planted half the country with," said Aunt Millenium drily, "and those sweet peas Maude filled my vegetable garden with." "Oh my," said Mama, laughing. "I did make a mistake there, but they were so pretty...." "Yes," said Aunt Millenium, "but as pretty as sweet peas are, I'm afraid the peas you can eat and put in cans are more sensible." Andrew laughed, but he was not looking at us. He looked only at Lavinia Elizabeth. Toby and I went outside after Great-Aunt Millenium's supper. Toby went to the garage and came out with a bucket and a flashlight. "What are you doing?" I asked him. I felt bad about the summer being nearly over. Two more days.... "Tm thinking about going fishing tomorrow. I'm thinking about trapping some night-crawlers." "Oh," I said. I watched him from the porch. In a few minutes Lavinia Elizabeth and Andrew crossed the lawn and leaned on the gate opening into the orchard. Andrew held her hand. "Look!" I whispered to Toby. "Abominably biological," he said, squinting with his nose very close to the ground.