Literature
Literature of the Latter-day Saints
Literature of the Gospel Restoration

Lesson 2—Highlights of the Book of Mormon
Epic Elder Howard R. Driggs

For Tuesday, November 16, 1948

The following excerpt from the Autobiography of Parley P. Piatt offers an excellent literary introduction to our lesson. Parley, on a mission for the "Campbellites," had neared Palmyra and made arrangements to hold a meeting. He writes: We visited an old Baptist deacon by the name of Hamlin. After hearing of our appointment for evening, he began to tell of a book, A STRANGE BOOK, a VERY STRANGE BOOK! in his possession, which had just been published. This book, he said, purported to have been originally written on plates either of gold or brass, by a branch of the tribes of Israel!

and to have been discovered and translated by a young man near Palmyra, in the State of New York, by the aid of visions or the ministering of angels. I inquired of him how or where the book was to be obtained. He promised me the perusal of it at his house the next day if I would call. I felt a strange interest in the book .... Next morning I called at his house, where for the first time my eyes beheld the BOOK OF MORMON, that book of books, that record which reveals the antiquities of the New World back to the remotest ages and which unfolds the destiny of its people and the world for all time to come, that Book which contains the fulness of the gospel of a crucified and risen Redeemer, that Book which reveals a lost remnant of Joseph, and which was the principal means, in the hands of God, of directing the entire course of my future life. I opened it with eagerness, and read its title page. I then read the testimony of several witnesses in relation to the manner of its being found and translated. After this I commenced its contents by course. I read all day; eating was a burden. I had no desire for food; sleep was a burden when the night came, for I preferred reading to sleep. As I read, the spirit of the Lord was upon me, and I knew and comprehended that the book was true as plainly and manifestly as a man comprehends and knows that he exists. My joy was now full, as it were, and I rejoiced sufficiently to more than pay me for all the sorrows, sacrifices and toils of my life. I soon determined to see the young man who had been the instrument to its discovery and translation (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, chapter V). What is there in this "book of books" so to intrigue a man of such outstanding intelligence as we know Parley P. Pratt possessed? What is in this scripture that charms and holds readers of open mind and heart whatever their station in life? First of all, it would seem to be the epic story of the Book of Mormon itself. An epic, we should explain, is a composite story—a series of stories, if you will, that portrays a people. And such indeed is the epic of the Book of Mormon. Secondly, the simple yet profound portrayal of the gospel. Stories woven into the Book of Mormon epic are of distinctive quality. Like those in the Old and New Testament they have not only intriguing interest but inner meaning—deep spiritual import. They live and last in the souls of those who appreciate them. Let us consider here a few of these stories, from a literary viewpoint as well as from the messages of truth they vitalize. A first of these, which challenged the writer's intense interest even in boyhood, is one which might be entitled: "A Heroic Youth Serves His People." This story, which is told in full, I Nephi, chapters 3 and 4, has all the qualities of a classic. It presents a vital problem—the procuring of a sacred, saving record. It portrays a clash of negative and positive spirits, represented in the brothers Laman and Nephi. It moves with precision and rising interest. Difficulties and danger enhance the drama. Crises are met with heroism, and success achieved. The plates of brass, containing scripture beyond price for the adventures in a new world, are delivered to the prophet-leader, Lehi. Within this dramatic story there is also something deeper than a mere tale for entertainment. First of all, it impresses unforgettably the vital, saving value of the written word of God for any people. Secondly, it lifts into the clear, precious truths. Two of these stand out:...

The Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I Nephi 3:7). It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief (1 Nephi 4:13). Through other stirring narrative, given as the epic naturally develops, the meaningful events are portrayed. With the sacred record on the brass plates, which contained much of what we know as the Old Testament, including the vital prophecies of Isaiah, to guide and inspire them, the band under their living prophet Lehi fared forth into the unknown. It was a new journey into the wilderness and across the wide waters to a new "Land of Promise." Note the beauty of Lehi's counsel to his sons, Laman and Lemuel: And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain of all righteousness! And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord! (I Nephi 2:9-10). 

And the great adventure was filled, as was that of the other children of Israel, with drama. Misgivings and even conflict within the families add to natural difficulties (I Nephi, chaps. 2-7). At times the Lord must use reproof and sharp correction to keep rebellious spirits such as Laman and Lemuel from thwarting the divine purpose which is being unfolded under the courageous leadership of Lehi and his loyal son Nephi. This is the central purpose of the Book of Mormon epic: to impress the truth that our Savior lives. All its stories, the doctrines they carry— all its quotations from Isaiah, who clearly visioned the Messiah, bear directly or indirectly on this divine message to mankind. To keep this clearly in mind will help those who follow this lesson, and who may continue to study the epic, better to understand the great composite story.

Another thing of import; and this is plainly stated by Nephi: Emphasis is laid in this scripture on "the things of God." Says this prophet: Wherefore, the things which are pleasing unto the world I do not write, but the things which are pleasing unto God, and unto those who are not of the world. Wherefore, I shall give commandment unto my seed, that they shall not occupy these plates with things which are not of worth unto the children of men (I Nephi 6:5-6).

Literary "smart" folk have often spoken flippantly about the Book of Mormon as dull reading. Even some of our own people more now than ever before, accustomed to swiftly moving, sensational fiction and drama at times confess they find it uninteresting. All of which is to say they are looking for something different from what this scriptural epic contains. Its stories are of a distinctive type. They are laden with truths of priceless value, with discourses on deeply religious themes.

In the Old Testament and the New Testament, the prophetic writings and the epistles are, in the main, set apart. In the Book of Mormon such expository writings are woven into the stories that serve to vitalize and impress the teachings. Is this not good psychology? Certainly the Master followed the same plan in making his lessons live. They are inwoven with the incidents and stories which give them not only clarity but concreteness.

A rather close parallel in the New Testament to the Book of Mormon epic structure may be found in "The Acts of the Apostles." This likeness is shown, for example, in the story of the prophet Abinadi (See Mosiah chapters 11 to 17 inclusive). Here is a stirring account of a heroic man of God who, like Peter and Paul, carried the word of the Lord to the unbelieving and wicked, even though in the end it meant martyrdom. Abinadi, with the courage of Elijah before King Ahab, beards perverted King Noah and his apostate priests in the throne room of the erring monarch, and delivers his message of truth and light. He finally dies a martyr's death, yet not in vain. Abinadi's testimony goes to the heart and soul of one of the priests, Alma. And this heroic man after the prophet's cruel death, carries on through testing difficulties and dangers the work of God.

For the story of Abinadi itself, the class leader might sketch through the chapters named above. In chapter 11 we get the full setting. Chapter 12 carries forward the epic, giving in verses 1 to 8, God's prophetic warning to the evil-doers. Then comes the angry report of the priests to their king Abinadi's cross-examination before Noah and this LESSON DEPARTMENT prophet's searching questions to the perverted priests. There is a rush to slay the courageous leader but he withstands the onslaught, saying: Touch me not, for God shall smite you if ye lay your hands upon me, for I have not delivered the message which the Lord sent me to deliver; neither have I told you that which ye requested that I should tell; therefore God will not suffer that I shall be destroyed at this time (Mosiah 13:3). Then to the maddened but cowed listeners he delivers boldly his words from God. The Ten Commandments are reimpressed. The priests and their king are chided for not teaching even these fundamentals. And saying that this is not enough "salvation doth not come by the law of Moses alone" (Mosiah 13:28), Abinadi portrays the vision of the Messiah to come, recalls the prophecies of Isaiah, and pictures with clarity the fulfillment of those inspired words through the coming of the Son of God the Savior and Redeemer of the world. To King Noah and his wicked priests all save Alma, such words are just heresy.

Abinadi, his courageous message delivered, is seized and imprisoned. Then he is given a chance to save himself by denying his testimony; but he will not. The king, fearful of the words of the prophet, would have released him, but the condemned priests will not have it so. Abinadi is seized, bound to a stake and the fire set. Yet even out of the flames he prophesies: Behold, even as ye have done unto me, so shall it come to pass that thy seed shall cause that many shall suffer even the pains of death by fire; and this because they believe in the salvation of the Lord their God. And it will come to pass that ye shall be afflicted with all manner of diseases because of your iniquities, Yea, and ye shall be smitten on every hand, and shall be driven and scattered to and fro, even as a wild flock is driven by wild and ferocious beasts. And in that day ye shall be hunted, and ye shall be taken by the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall suffer, as I suffer, the pains of death by fire.

Thus God executeth vengeance upon those who destroy his people. O God, receive my soul (Mosiah 17:15-19). Here in the story of Abinadi is drama of high quality impressing divine truth. 'The words of this dauntless prophet were fulfilled. And he did not die in vain for his great work was carried on by another heroic soul whom he inspired. Within the Book of Mormon epic are many like dramatic stories, impressing eternal principles of the gospel. A sequence of such stories is portrayed: the masterful work of Alma the elder in establishing the Church of Christ (Mosiah, chaps. 23, 24, 25); the fate of wicked King Noah (Mosiah, chapter 19); the impressive conversion of Alma's erring son, Alma, and the sons of King Mosiah to the gospel, and their courageous missionary work (Mosiah, 27-29). This second Alma, or Alma the younger, in the book of the same name, carries forward the epic. It is replete with stories, with truths of life made plain and concrete, and with stirring drama. Deeply impressive and moving is the part where Alma, Chief Judge and High Priest of his people, counsels his sons, Helaman, Shiblon, and Corianton (Alma, chaps. 36-42). Recounting his own wayward youth, his miraculous conversion (Mosiah 27:8-19) and after-zeal to do God's will, this leader gives to each of these sons lessons of deep import suited to their different natures. His father heart goes out particularly to Corianton who has sinned grievously, consorting with the harlot Isabel, and otherwise forgetting his heritage of righteousness. To this erring one the saving truths of the gospel are expounded with searching insight and power. It is a sermon of profound truth not alone for Corianton but for all the world. Such gems of spiritual truth as the following shine through the words of loving-kindness: Ye cannot hide your crimes from God; and except ye repent they will stand as a testimony against you at the last day (Alma 39:8). Seek not after riches nor the vain things of this world; for behold, you cannot carry them with you (Alma 39:14). No unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of God (Mosiah 40:26). Wickedness never was happiness (Alma 41:10). Space permits only a glance at other stirring spiritual dramas in the great book. Pre-eminent among all of them is, of course, that which portrays with simple majesty the coming of Christ to the "other sheep of his fold" (See Third Nephi). Impressive evidence of the holding power of this story was given repeatedly a few years ago with the presentation of the pageant America's Witness for Christ at the Hill Cumorah. On one occasion the writer, with fully thirty thousand other folk of many creeds and classes (this an estimate of the state highway patrol), sat spellbound for two hours and more witnessing the unfolding in carefully selected and arranged scenes and lines taken in the main from the Book of Mormon. And finally, that other stirring last story of the sacred scripture picturing Moroni alone with the countless slain, and the records of gold he is charged to hide from the eyes of his enemies. This that the voice of God might in later years "speak from the dust." And lastly, the promise of this American prophet: And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4). Studies and Activities Note: For this study a copy of the Book of Mormon is essential. Let each member of the class provide herself with one. 1. Why may the Book of Mormon be called a "Book of Books"? B. What gives central purpose and unity to this "many-in-one volume"? 2. Explain briefly the term epic. B. Why may the word be applied to the story structure of the Book of Mormon as well as to the Old Testament? 3. Have someone read aloud expressively chapters two and three of I Nephi. B. Point out the basic qualities that make this an effective story. C. How might it be turned into a stirring little drama? 4. In what fundamental respect are the excellent stories of the Book of Mormon different from the stories commonly presented through fiction, on stages and screen today? Illustrate. 5. What preparedness is necessary to enhance appreciation and bring soul-lifting recreation from the Book of Mormon epic story? 6. Name two or more situations in the Book of Mormon that have stirring drama in them. Read, as time permits, selections portraying briefly such dramatic stories. Following are a few such scenes as might be given: a. Mosiah 27:8-19; b. Alma 39:1-5; Alma 46:11-22; Third Nephi 11:1-12, 565 Note: Since time during the lesson will not permit an in-depth discussion of all these selections, it is suggested that each class member select one or two to read and discuss.