RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. XII JANUARY, 1925 CONTENTS The Year Has Gone Eliza R. Snow portrait of Mrs. Annie D. Palmer Oh, White-Winged Gull.. Mrs. Annie D, Palmer Portrait of Mrs. Alice Morrill The Pioneer Mother Mrs. Alice Morrill Vigilant Loyalty to our Standards of Government.. Elder George Albert Smith Spiritual Education Dr. Adam S. Bennion 13 Editorial—The Gospel as a Guide Mother's Milk Clinic The Editor Abroad A Perfect Ending of an Imperfect IDES? Eunice Iverson Gardner 27 Importance of Diet for the Expectant Mother Women in the Utah Legislature 35 'Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 38 Guide Lessons for March Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—Il5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the bound volumes we have on hand: 5 vols, 1915, leather bound...................3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound  3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound  2.75 5 vols. 1917, leather bound 3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound.........3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound 2.75 5 vols. 1919, leather bound....3.50 10 vols. 1920, leather bound 3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound —... 3.50 6  1922, cloth bound  2.75 5 vols. 1922, leather bound.....3.50 l5e extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bshop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Fc Competent Office Help— Is always in demand. If you are bright, alert, and ambitious, you will find a business college training a wonderful investment. This is the best time of the year to begin. Write or call today L.D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Day and Evening SALT LAKE CITY All the Year ICE CREAM CANDY: CAKE PUNCHES deliciously different PHONE WAS. $225 Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION {i W. M. McCONAHAY THE JEWELER Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Magazine Management will pay 20c per copy for the © following Magazines: February, 1924 March, 1924 April, 1924 Please notify office of the number you have on hand before mailing same to us. ——— Hi the proper number of glasses. Temple Block 64 So. Main. Salt Lake City Phone Was. 1821 f, NEW GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request. For Ladies For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Light................ 95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight.... 1.25 No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light............ 1.25 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality.... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Flat.............. 145 No. 925—Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803—Extra Quality Ribb...... 150 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton...... 1.85 No. 990—Heavy Ecrn. Cotton........ 2.50 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............ 2.00 No. 9107—Wool & Cotton................ 4.00 No. 850—Imp. Lisle.......0..............0 2.50 No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton.... 4.50 To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States. Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kid. Dies like them too THE YEAR HAS GONE List to that sound—that rolling chime: Hark! 'tis the busy knell of Time:. The year has gone, And borne along The hopes and fears— The smiles and tears Of multitudes unknown to song. The year has gone, and in its train Such scenes of pleasure and of pain As bear us on From Life's first dawn, Thro' flowing deeps— O'er rugged steeps, Until life's glimmering lamp is gone. The year has gone—but mem'ry still The curtain holds with fairy skill: As if to keep 'Old Time asleep, While scenes roll back. Upon their track, And recollection takes a peep. Eliza R. Snow. MRS, ANNIE D. PALMER O WHITE-WINGED GULL Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Provo, Utah, Awarded First Prize the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Thou white-winged gull! When e'er I hear The tale that made thy memory dear, How, when my native state was young, Her future in the balance hung, When Famine, gaunt and grim and keen, With tortuous hand outstretched, was seen, And thy swift mercy saved the day— I bow my head and humbly say: "I thank Thee, Lord. I thank Thee." Thou heaven-sent bird! Could I but heed The mighty voice that bade thee feed Upon the black and sickening swarm That covered pasture, land and farm; That bade thee feed with ravenous haste, And glut thy greedy, wanton taste— Could I but heed its whispers low, This thought were mine to feel and know; "I thank Thee, 'Lord, I thank Thee." Oh, white-winged gull! Could I but feel How much He cares for mortal weal; Wow, when my erring feet would stray, His hand will lead in wisdom's way; And if I faint or if I fall, His ear is quick to heed my call— Could I but learn how much He cares, This were the burden of my prayers: "I thank Thee, Lord, I thank Thee." Oh, heaven-sent bird! Could I but trust, And count life's keenest sorrows just; Could I but bend my selfish will, My Father's purpose to fulfil; Then would He love and succor me Like unto them He fed by thee— If I could only learn to trust, And humbly say, as say I must: "I thank Thee, Lord, I thank Thee." MRS, ALICE MORRILL THE PIONEER MOTHER By Mrs. Alice Morrill, Tridell, Utah, Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Behold her busy at her task—no thought to turn aside nor shirk; Her faith but dignifies her toil; her hope but sanctifies her work; No thought to falter by the way, nor wish to rest from weary toil; A selfish life—no weak reproach, nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil, From out despair, has she not marched—the consummation of her quest, To be the peace and solemn, brooding, stillness of the desert west? The love-lit hour of holy prayer a beacon light of heaven shines, And through the silent hours of night she catches harmonies Divine. And yet within her bare, hard life, nor art nor high-born harmony, The unresponsive desert answers not her mute appeal for sympathy, But dares her try her strength to wrest from his bare breast mere sustenance, In this she turns her heart to God and bows to his, Omnipotence. Then goes afield to glean the heads of wheat left 'mongst the clods, And typifies the purpose, born of old, "Thy God shall be my God!" She gathers up her threads of love, and weaves the fabric of her life; Her aspiration but to be a duteous mother, faithful wife. A limitless expanse of wilderness surrounds her cabin home. The sun glares hot and pitiless by day; by night, the weird winds moan. Deep in her heart she makes a grave; lays there her hope of luxury, And gives her life, a ransom for the generations yet to be. Close folded in her arms, she clasps her scant-clothed child and smiles, As visions of his high estate the stillness of this hour beguiles; Alone, beside the couch of pain, she soothes her sufferer till the dawn. Yet looks above the deep blue vault and glimpses heavenly realms beyond. When death's hand snatches from her breast the babe that brought her soul's relief She clothes him in a common shroud with her own hand, and hides her grief. The cold, pale stars and far, white moon look down from out the upper deep, While lonely hill-crags, rising high, their mighty, silent vigil keep. The damp earth floor, whereon she kneels a shrine of worship comes to be, Her plain, hard fare becomes, to her a sacrament of sancitity. A priestess she, and prophetess, of far off, future, glorious years, When bloom of beauty shall unfold, at last, deep watered by her tears. The Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest In this issue of the Magazine are published the results of the second Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest. Forty-six poems were submitted. The judges were Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the' General Board, Prof, Alfred Osmond, head of the English department of the Brigham Young University, at Provo, Utah, and Miss Kate Thomas, a well known writer of Salt Lake. Oh, White-Winged Gull, written by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, cf Provo, Utah, is awarded first prize. Mrs. Alice Morrill, of Tridell, Utah, receives the second prize for her poem, The Pioneer Mother. Honorable mention is given the following poems, Where is Heaven?; A Question, Endurance, and Mother's Evening Prayer. These poems will be published in the Magazine in due time. Leadership Week Educaton for better home life will be the central theme for the fifth annual Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University commencing January 26, according to an announcement coming from the Extension Division. The week will be conducted along the lines followed. In the past but a number of new departments will be added. Among the new departments are: Interior Decorating; Reading for the Home; Training for Priesthood; Psychology of Childhood; Play Production. Other courses will be as follows: Social Welfare; Community Planning; Vocational Guidance; Scout Leadership; Music; Religious Education; Principles and Methods of Teaching Religion; Pageantry; Genealogy and Temple Work; Farmers Conference; Recreation; Foods and Nutrition; Clothing and to Home Health and Sanitation. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII JANUARY, 1925 No. 1 Vigilant Loyalty to our Standards of Government Elder George Albert Smith It is very unusual for me to try to talk to a subject—I usually talk from it, so far from it that I never discover it after I get away from it, but the question of loyalty is one that is very near to me. With the upset condition of this world, I am persuaded that there is not anything that we need much more than loyalty, loyalty to our heavenly Father, first of all, who has given us this wonderful world in which we live. Here we are comfortably seated in this structure reared of the materials that were created by him, and here we are in the companionship of his children, each of whom is dear to him, and we are here for the purpose of learning something of our duty one to the other, and among the things that are necessary is loyalty. There is not any such thing as a loyalty that is just a makeshift. There is not any such thing as a loyalty that hasn't any life in it. I like this term "vigilant loyalty," because unless our loyalty is vigilant it amounts to very little. I feel that enthusiastic loyalty as well as vigilant loyalty is proper. I am persuaded that among all the delightful things that we enjoy, our opportunities, our ideals, none of them are safe unlegs they are somewhat enthusiastic. I do not believe that even morality is safe unless it is enthusiastic. Unless we have a pride and determination and a joy and a feeling that it is worth while to be moral, we are in constant danger, and so I bring the same suggestion to our opportunities of life in this great country that the Lord himself prepared. He prepared all the various countries for the habitation of men, but he prepared this particular country and kept it here, according to his statements, from the people of the world, until the time should come when he would begin its settlement. So, as I look back and think of the coming of Christopher Columbus and all that went before, I realize how dangerous the journey was that brought the first people to our shores. I feel that there was inspiration behind it all, and the result was that there came to our shores eventually men and women whom I believe our heavenly Father reserved Pr 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the time when it was necessary for heroic souls to come out from the nations of the world into the almost obscure and unknown. The. Prow of the boat in which Columbus sailed was pointed straight to Deleware Bay, and all of a sudden a flock of birds passed him and flew a little south of the direction in which the boat was going, so he directed the boat to follow in the course of the birds. That might happen a thousand times upon the ocean today, and mean nothing. In that case it meant the settlement of South America and that section of the country by the Spanish nation. The Anglo-Saxon race came later under the influence of prayer to land near Delaware Bay. It was no accident that our Father brought the Pilgrim Fathers to this world, any more than it was that he brought the Spanish nation to the islands of the West Indies and South America. There was a purpose in it all. God intended that these United States of America, this great northern American continent, in fact, should be dedicated to a people who love liberty and prize it, and who would serve him. The purpose of it all—the flight of the birds, the coming of the Pilgrim Fathers, the struggle for independence—was that the gospel of Jesus Christ might be established. In order that we might fave the liberty we enjoy, our heavenly Father had to prepare the stage. It was not prepared by Columbus, nor by those who came in the Mayflower; they were but the actors. The Lord hiinself had prepared the stage and had inspired the souls that were to perform their parts. Then there came a time later when those who had burning in their hearts a love of liberty revolted against the mother country—that wonderful government of Great Britain which has given to this land so many splendid men and women, and has given to the world so many advantages and opportunities by reason of its power. But in the Lord's way, another government was to be prepared, and the way was opened, and he said (you will find it in the Doctrine and Covenants) that he raised up the very men who prepared the Constitution of the United States. They were not here by accident. According to our Father's statement, he raised up those very individuals, and they were praying men. They were the kind of men who believed in the power of God. The man who led the army that fought for the independence of this land was a praying man—George Washington, and those who were associated with him believed in prayer. It is remarkable that when the Constitution was being formed some ot these men had forgotten the power of prayer and had forgotten their loyalty to the very source of all their happiness. They had forgotten only temporarily, however, just as we sometimes forget. I shall not ask you who are here today to say whether or not 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been brought into that land that I have just referred to, not by the blessings of our heavenly Father, but by the influence of the evil spirit that lurks beneath. So it is important that we exercise in our lives a vigilant loyalty to the standard of our government that our Father in heaven has given to us. I would not stand here and plead with you to recognize the gevernment of any individual against that of any other individuai, because men's minds are variable, and they make mistakes; but when I stand here and believe with all my heart that this form of government was inspired by the Lord. I feel perfectly safe and secure to say that we can well afford to measure with due consideration any suggestion that will modify the government of the land in which we live. There seems to be rampant in this world today a spirit of lawlessness, and in no other part of the world is it more dominant than it is in this wonderful land in which we live. I refer tothe attitude toward the law giving this country prohibition. There are hundreds and thousands of men and women who believe themselves to be good citizens of the United States, who violate the provisions of this law, and in a most flagrant way, without realizing that they are laying the ax at the roots of the tree of liberty, and unless they repent of their sins the next generation will jeopardize the liberty that we enjoy. In the communities where the Latter-day Saints dominate, it is the duty of every man and every woman, not only to obey the law of the land, not only to honor the law of the land, but to sustain loyally and vigilantly and enthusiastically the law of the land and those whose duty it is to carry it into effect. I believe our heavenly Father will be displeased with us as members of this Church if we carelessly permit the government of this nation to be, jeopardized, without raising our voices to say a word against the enemies of law and order. A liberty that is not worth contending for is not worth having. A blessing that is not worth working for is not of much value. This privilege we have of living in such a country as this is worth a tremendous effort on our part to sustain those ideals that will establish the next generation upon a foundation that will enable them to go on defending these laws and ordinances that our Father in heaven intended should tenefit the human family. There are some women who are a little careless about their franchise. I am proud to belong to a Church which was first to extend the franchise to women. It was the Prophet Joseph Smith who first turned the key for the emancipation of women of this world, and it was your organization in whose interest it was turned, and I am sure you are grateful for that. It was not a whim of his; it was an inspiration from the Lord. It was VIGILANT LOYALTY 11 necessary that those women who were to be the mothers of those who should build the country in a proper way should have something to do other than just to follow the behest of their husbands and their brothers. Sometimes we find individuals in both sexes 'who seem to think that they can get along very well without the other group, but I want to say that the Lord intended that both of the sexes should have their part, and he didn't intend that womankind should be in slavery to man. He did intend that there should be order, however, and so he has placed in every well ordered home, as the head of the family, the male member of the family—sometimes the inferior mind. But in so doing, the Lord has not said that woman should not be her husband's equal in all good things, and in the blessings that would flow to the sexes. And so, my sisters, you have been given not only your franchise in the Church, but you have been given your franchise in the country, in the Union in which you live. The Lord has given you these privileges. Your vote counts just as much as the vote of your husband or your brother, and it should be just as intelligently used. You ought to know that the laws of our country are just as far as possible; you ought to know what kind of men are placed before you, and in the full dignity of a daughter of the Lord you ought to go to the polls and cast your ballot in the interest of peace and good government. You must not stay home and say that it is not your affair. It is your affair, and our heavenly Father has made it possible for you to enjoy this particular blessing. We have in many of our towns a curfew law which is intended to bring our children home at a reasonable hour in the evening.. It is our duty to see that our children observe this law. Since it is a law in the community in which we live, it is our duty to see that it is observed. If they are permitted to violate this ordinance, it is only one step further for them to take something that doesn't belong to them, or to abuse some one contrary to the law. So we ought to be enthusiastically active in sustaining this law and other ordinances which are enacted to uplift and bless us as a people. I am glad there are some brethren here, to hear this because I feel that it is the duty of men. As well as of women to know where our children are at night. If we will draw our children home under the regulations of the curfew and inspire in them a respect for law, it will go a long way toward making them good citizens and making them what they ought to be. It has been my privilege recently to go over a portion of this marvelous country, and the farther I traveled and the more I saw, the more abundant was my gratitude to my Father in heaven for the way in which he has blessed us, and I feel to bow my head in thanksgiving and prayer that I have been permitted to iz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE live in so favored a country. The Lord has blessed us and given us the power to say what shall be done in regulating the government of this land. Be not sidetracked by the influence of evil to listen to those who in the selfishness of their souls would destroy the beauty of our national consititution. It was prepared for the sons and daughters of our heavenly Father, to live at peace with all the world. There is no royal family among the people of this land. Each individual has a privilege equal to other individuals, if he will honor and respect the law. We may well ask ourselves the question, will we be among those who will be valiant henceforth and forever in maintaining and sustaining the law that our heavenly Father has given to us for our blessing and which he has made possible for us to enjoy and to bequeath to those who shall follow after us from generation to generation namely the privilege of worshiping him in spirit and in truth? Each in his own place and station, each in his own home, each at his own fireside, may exercise his influence under the blessing of our Father in heaven, that the power of the adversary will be turned aside, that peace and joy and happiness will continue with us. From the depths of my soul I am grateful for my membersship in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am thankful for this great organization that has accomplished so much among the children of men—this National Woman's Relief Society. I am grateful for my citizenship in this land that the Lord has given to us to enjoy, and thankful that I can go from place to place and see the handiwork of the Master of heaven and earth in the lives of the individuals with whom I associate, in the homes that are builded under the inspiration of the Lord, in the wonderful valleys and mountains that he has created for ~ eur comfort and blessing. I thank him with all my heart that I am a partaker in these gifts, and I feel today to say to you that if the Lord will give me wisdom, if he will continue to bless me with judgment, I desire to exercise such power as I have to maintain in an active, vigorous, enthusiastic way the franchise that he has given unto me, the blessing that has been bestowed upon me to have part in ordering the government of the land in which we live, and I desire to be worthy of it from now until the time shall come that I go hence. I desire also that all our Father's children, may enjoy this same blessing. I pray that your lives may be enriched by the labors you are performing, and that the characters which you are forming here will be so beautiful that when you go hence the Father will say, "You have honored me and my holy priesthood who have presided over you; you have honored yourselves, and I welcome you home to enjoy the companionship of those you love, throughout the ages of eternity." 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE beyond their years, but their spirits were dwarfed. I am impressed with the thought that I may be trained physically, I may exercise the muscles and bodily functions given to men, I may become an athlete, a pugilist, what I will, and my spirit be left wholly in the background; and yet I would not have you understand that the spirit is something which, like the conscience, may be carried around in one's pocket, to be brought forward for special Sunday or other emergency uses. I think there are those who do think of the conscience as a thing which may be sidetracked and brought out on Sunday. Elbert Hubbard said the truth when he expressed the idea that man should remember not only the Sabbath day to keep it holy, but the week days to keep them holy. Man's spirit or his spiritual powers are in, and shine through, his total functioning powers whenever he exercises himself toward the fuller development of all that is best and finest — in hith. I am convinced that the spirit of man permeates all of his other powers, and represents really the divinity that is in him. I was struck within the week with reading an address—if you share your material possessions, you divide them; if you share your spiritual possessions, you multiply them. If you divide a pie you have less than before you divided it, but if you share a smile you have more smile than when you started; if you share a story, or a good deed, if you share anything spiritual, your very sharing adds to it. Our question this afternoon is how may we develop that spirituality in man that it may take the lead over both the physical and the mental, that it may become the guide to man's life here in the world. Jesus Christ was the greatest personage born into the world because he caught most fully of the Spirit of his Father. Jesus was not trained academically, as some other men have been trained; we have never been told that he possessed great physical prowess, but he became the Savior of the world through manifesting a spirit beyond and unlike anything ever experienced by any other living soul. John reminds us that God is a spirit, and that they who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. When Elihu chided Job, he said, "But there is a spirit in man:'and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." (Job 32:8.) I take it your problem here today is not what this spirit is, but rather how can we better promote it? I am assuming that it is your responsibility as mothers to see that the homes of the Latter-day Saints keep the spiritual fires burning. I know you are charged to look after want and need, delinquency and social problems, but the greatest mission that can rest in your hands is to see that in the homes of Latter-day Saints, children are reared to fear God and to cherish his Holy Spirit. If I were to give a recipe for promoting spirituality, I think SPIRITUAL EDUCATION 15 I would mix together these six or seven simple little ingredients— simple and little, and yet big enough to fill a lifetime: 1. Set up the right spirit in the home. I wish you would go home from this conference and read Mrs. Fisher's first chapter in Mothers and Children, which she calls "Moral Sunshine." It is a plea such as I wish I had the power to get over. It is a problem such as we have been discussing only last week in our own home, and which we seem never to be able to get away from. You are mothers and therefore busy. That is the only way you can become mothers. Nobody ever retired to motherhood. Because you are busy, look out lest you become unduly busy on that phase of life that doesn't represent the real ultimate values. The woman who gets so busy keeping the dust off the furniture or cooking meals to satisfy the ravenous appetite of a husband, has misjudged values, if in doing so she has no time to tell stories to Billy or to give right attitudes toward motherhood to Mary. 'I know you are busy. It may be that you had to leave that batch of fruit or had to stay up late to get it done, so that you could come here today, but I would like to say that you are not just to put up fruit, or to pickle pickles, or to sweep kitchens, or to scrub bathrooms—you are charged above all else to bring Billy and Mary into their estate, and it is mighty poor economy to let minor duties stand in the way. I should hate to be a mother and present myself to St. Peter, in the absence of a boy I had lost, and plead that I had to put up too much fruit to feed him with, and therefore didn't have time to teach him properly. I do not believe it will ever get you very far past the great celestial gates. I hope you are feeling a little uneasy—I want you to. I won't even mind if you disagree with me a little—that is who! Esome. Whenever a woman is so busy cleaning the house in which her boys and girls live that she is out of sorts with them all the time, that woman is on the wrong platform because no woman can dust furniture to the neglect of her child and feel good about it. I like a clean house, and I am-man enough to like to sit down to good meals, but the problem of promoting spirituality centers in the home. You cannot be grouchy and dumpy injthe home and develop boys and girls of the right sort. You cannot have the spirit of the gospel in the home if there is quarreling. You cannot have the spirit of the gospel in the home, if all the time you are nagging the boys and girls because you are tired out, and they are doing what they have a right to do because they are boys and girls. One of the biggest challenges I have to meet is when I come home from the office worn out and tired, and Buddy runs to me and wants to play. If I brush him aside, because I am too tired to play, I shall be chargeable for the life that Buddy may fail to develop. Brush aside the material things once in a while and center in spiritual values. 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Z. There are certain other things that need to be done, and we should set up certain definite habits. First of all, we need to develop in children, from the time they are born, an attitude of responding to all the situations they face, happily. If you cannot get a girl to do the dishes cheerfully, you have no bigger problem in the household. There is something wrong with the child who dislikes to do dishes. It is possible to make girls do the dishes and even do them fairly cheerfully. I believe it is possible to get a boy around the house to do the chores and actually enjoy it. We have been experimenting on it. We have put our kiddies on a budget and let them go into partnership with father and mother. They naturally want some money—pay them well and let them do the little things they are to do because they are partners and they will feel good about it. If boys and girls are everlastingly doing things they detest, they will hate to be home, and there is no clamity quite commensurate with the calamity that comes when children do not want to be home. The other day two children were knocked over, and it was discovered that one little child of five was on the streets because the doors were locked so that he would not disturb the house while the mother was away. 3. We should begin early the habit of helpfulness. I love to go into a home where a boy or a girl will go out of his way to share with another. I was in a home awhile back where one little lad had been sent to the store to get some candy. He'brought back some of these "dumbells" (sticks with candy on each end). He had only four and there were five kiddies to share them. Ordinarily that would result in a mental collision. The little lad who had been properly trained said, "Well, we haven't enough to go around." He didn't sneak off with his and leave somebody else to worry, but he took them all and broke them up and then divided them. I salute that kind of home. It is a tremendously fine thing when a girl can be encouraged to go out into the kitchen and offer to help with the dishes. If the men were here I would say it would be a fine thing if they could remember the davs when they were courting when they wanted to sneak out into the kitchen to help her. It is a mighty helpful thing for the, father to slip over an idea to Mary: "Your mother is tired, can't you slip out and help her?" It won't hurt a boy to help out the tired mother. I believe it is possible to build an attitude of helpfulness so that boys and girls take pains to help one another, which is the very key to the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 4. I sometimes fear that American homes these days run the risk of suffering from two things, the result of science. The first is the victrola, which will play anything for us; the second is the piano player, which will do the same thing. If you have either or both of these instruments in your family, what is hap- SPIRITUAL EDUCATION 17 pening to your boys and girls? Are they learning to play? What kind of pieces do they play? Are they playing these raggedy, raggedy ones, or have you taken pains to bring through these channels the masterpieces of the world? I would like to submit it to the humblest mother here from the remotest corner in Zion. Your children and your children's children will come to love the best things in the world if you will take the pains to expose them. I fancy we are losing something in the Church. I could wish that we were singing more than we are. I could wish that children would gather of an evening and that they would be encouraged to sing the songs that carry with them the message of truth, 5. The next little thought that I would like to give by way of promoting spirituality, I am sure is being neglected. A testimony was given to a man who went into one of the wards in Salt Lake City. This man hadn't been in a service in years, and he was a little prejudiced. He didn't attend this service to listen, but he went out of obligation—- it was a funeral that had touched a family so close to him and he went to pay his respects. While he sat in that service, largely unmindful of what was being said, he saw a picture of the divine messenger giving the plates to the Prophet Joseph, and during the whole service he could do nothing but worship in the presence of that picture, and that picture brought him back to the Church. There is a force in good pictures, I knew of a mother who sent her son to Boston to attend the university. He was just a natural fellow, and in fixing up his room he decided he would put a little life into it, so he gathered pictures from the Photoplay magazines, most of which were the pictures of the follies chorus girls, more or less nude. A little later the mother went to visit Boston and when she went into the room, she was stunned. She was confident that these pictures would do more to undermine her son than any university could do to build him up. She did not say she was ashamed of him. She did not even say she was surprised. She looked at those pictures, swallowed the lump in her throat, and said nothing. When she went home she went to an art store and bought a copy of Hoffmann's "Jesus in the Temple," a picture that has an expression that will drive home the worth of cleanliness as few things have ever done, and without wrapping in any moral, she had that picture beautifully framed and sent to her boy. Six months later she was in Boston and called to see him. On the wall just behind the boy's study table was the picture of the Master in the temple. Just next was another beautiful picture, and there were also two other reprints of the world's masterPieces. The mother asked what had happened to the other pictures, and the boy said, "O, mother, they wouldn't go with that, so I took them down." I sometimes wonder whether we are quite fair. 18 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There are being hurled at boys and girls throughout this Church cheap, immodest, immoral bits of art, and you and I sit by in indifference. Copies of good pictures are obtainable at very little expense. I would that we could fill our homes with the pictures that reflect great truths. Women Take Office Not only the women but the men of the nation also, will keep a watchful eye on the new governors of Texas and Wyoming, for these are women. The task of Mrs. Miriam Ferguson and Mrs. W. B. Ross will be far from easy. Time out of mind, woman's care. Has been human welfare, while man's has been business. The men will therefore, probably, measure the success of these governors by one standard and the women by another. It will be difficult to meet both requirements. If they shall be able to pay more attention to the social needs of their people than their brothers would do, without neglecting their finanicial necessities, they should be regarded as successful. At all events, the woman executive in the political field is on trial. Let us hope that these women will prove as efficient in this office as many of their sisters have done in executive places in the business world, and there is no reason why they should not. Other political laurels have come to women this year. Florence E. S. Knapp, head of the College of Home Economics of Syracuse University, takes the office of Secretary of State in New York, and Mary T. Norton, wife of a manufacturer in New Jersey, has been elected to the Congress of the United States, from the twelfth district of that state. She is highly educated, and is actively interested in social welfare work. There have been women in other congresses, but Mrs. Knapp is the first one to be elected Secretary of State, and Mrs. Ferguson and Mrs, Ross are first woman governors. The rain comes pelting down and then The sun begins to shine again, One day misfortune comes along, The next we sing a cheerful song, But when it all is understood, The greater part of life is good. —Kuingsley. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - -. 9 ° President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - =- - 2 + - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - =~ -_ General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs, Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor.::::: - -:: CrarissA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor -:: - -: - - Atce Loutsz REYNOLDS Business Manager -: - - - - - -:: JeanetTts A. Hvve Assistant Manager -:: - -::: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol XII JANUARY, 1925 No. 1 The Gospel as a Guide During the month of September your editor and her traveling companion attended a threatre in the city of Glasgow, Scotland, where Harry Lauder was featured for the evening's entertainment. His name was responsible for the sale of every seat in the house, far in advance of the performance. Mr. Lauder's costumes proved most attractive, and the scenery, reflecting the colorful landscape of Scotland, with its rich purple hether, was very beautiful. One thing only marred the entertainment; and that was the continual smoking of persons in the audience. Men and women lighted cigarettes at any moment, and such a cloud of smoke arose that the performers could be seen only through the mist. Later, we had a similar experience in London. It was during the production of one of George Bernard Shaw's plays. Men smoked to the right and to the left of us; and directly in front of us, five women sat smoking. England has always been noted for its home life. Today that life is vitiated in the homes, on the steamships, and in the hotels by the smoking of both men and women. My friend and I have had cigarettes offered to us several times in homes where we were dinner guests. There is no use of resenting the offer, on the part of the host or hostess, for many women in Great Britain today, would feel slighted if the host or hostess failed 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a | to invite them to smoke after dinner. The only thing a woman can do, who dislikes tobacco, is to refuse in a courteous manner. On our way to Paris, a gentleman in our compartment asked us if we smoked, before he ventured to light his own cigarette. Our positive statement that we did not led to a discussion on the subject. We told him that smoking was offensive to us, and that we were greatly shocked to note that it was permitted in some of the theatres in both Scotland and England. His response to all we said was that he was not adverse to women smoking in a drawing room, after dinner; but that he did not like to see her smoke in a theatre or on the street. Doubtless there are many men and women, at the present time, who defend the practice of smoking for both men and women. 'There are, too, many persons who deny that smoking on the part of expectant mothers and expectant fathers is injuricus to the child. Surely it is a matter of satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints to realize that no matter how much the women of the world indulge in this very offensive practice, that the women of Zion will, as a rule, remain sweet and clean; and will become in this matter, as in many others, as a light set upon a hill. Once again, we are reminded that not the least of the blessings vouchsafed to us, through the gospel, is that of proper guidance, that protects us from becoming the dupes of false doctrine and unrighteous practice; for on this subject the word of the Lord says, explicitly, that tobacco is not good for man, but should be used for bruises and sick cattle. Mother's Milk Clinic Milk for babies is of necessity of great concern. Civic centers and welfare organizations have been active for a corsiderable length of time dispensing milk for the care of babies; for, if babies are to be saved, they must have proper milk in proper quantities for their sustenance. The Relief Society has exerted itself in a strenuous manner to have all mothers acquainted with this fact, and, wherever babies are being deprived of good milk in right quantities, it is urged that steps be taken to supply these babies with milk. The Long Island College Hospital has gone a step farther than other centers interested in supplying milk for babies, in establishing a mother's milk clinic. The mothers who supply the milk are, in the main, from poor families. They are paid by the clinic, receiving from three to four dollars a day, but they are also appealed to in the name of the sick babies who need their help. EDITORIAL 21 They understand that they are saving the lives of babies that would perish if the milk were not furnished. From twelve to fourteen ounces is what the average baby consumes a day. Where it is not possible to obtain this amount, four ounces of mother's milk, with other feeding of modified cow's milk, are sufficient to keep the infant alive. Mother's milk, if thoroughly healthy, is always better for an infant than any other sort of milk. The mother's milk is so rich that it is often necessary to dilute it with water, and not all babies require a large amount. In order that there may be no danger of their own infants suffering from their generosity, babies are examined at stated periods by the physicians and records of their weight are kept. As soon as the weight of a baby of a milk supplying mother fails to come up to standard, she is no longer permitted to give her milk to the clinic. The mothers undergo periodic examinations and their milk is regularly tested in order that there can be no error in prescribing it for a sick child. Perfect cleanliness is also drilled into the mother, and the milk is expressed under the supervision of the welfare representative. The milk is put on ice and later bottled, so that people can take it away. With each bottle goes a printed slip telling how the milk may be pasteurized at home. This clinic charges twentyfive cents an ounce for the milk that is sold to private individuals, but the serious need of a sick infant is the first consideration, and, where families are destitute or in very poor circumstances, the care of the infant is made possible. The management wishes to protect itself against persons who plead poverty and yet who refuse to deprive themselves of luxuries. Genuine cases of poverty meet with consideration and sympathy. The hospital has obtained an electric pump which will in time be used for the expression of the milk, so that the mother giving it will not need to spend so much of her time at the hospital. At present it sometimes takes as long as an hour and a half, and, in some instances, two to obtain the milk. Most mothers supply about one other baby as well as their own. Occasionally a woman is found who can supply her own and two other babies. One exceptional case is that of a woman who has been giving the clinic thirty-five ounces of milk daily, besides feeding her own baby about fourteen ounces. The mothers are all the better for the service to other babies, as the milk for their own baby is fresher and their entire system benefits by their generosity in giving of their surplus milk. The babies who obtain milk from the clinic must have a physician's certificate saying that they need it. If the milk runs short, the hospital devides it eaually among all comers. 22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Editor Abroad OUR VISIT TO BOSTON Alice L. Reynolds We are all acquainted with the slogan: "See America First." We shall begin this series of articles by seeing a little of America on our way to Europe; for we realize that America is important to know, particularly for Americans, and that there is nothing in Europe like Niagara Falls. That which is true of Niagara Falls is equally true of other points of interest on our great American continent. Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes is credited with saying that Boston is the hub of the universe; today there are many Bostonians who, like Dr. Holmes, believe that Boston is the hub of the universe, and with all due respect to those who do not share Dr. Holmes opinion, or the opinion of many who chance to live in Boston, at the present time, we wish to say, that the contention is not without reason. Miss Elliott, my traveling companion, and I reached Boston on the 8th of September, 1924. We were met at the station by Miss Mary Elizabeth O'Connor, the principal of one of the public schools of Taunton, Massachussetts, who in company with three other Massachussetts teachers had visited Utah at the time President Harding was in Salt Lake City. Miss O'Connor took us to the Women's City Club, of Boston, The Women's City Club is a fine old house, built about 1818, at 40 Beacon Street, overlooking Boston Common. Bulfinch, the architect of the Boston State House, appears to have been the architect. The main office of this stately old mansion, which combines the beauty of the past with the convenience of the present, has purple-paned windows, a badge of Boston gentility, indicating that the glass in them was brought from Europe before the year 1812. These purple glass windows are also a distinguishing mark of old Beacon Hill Mansions. _ The purchasing and fitting up of this Club House with its commodious lounges, dining rooms, reading rooms, halls, baths and bedrooms are among the achievements of the modern woman. The Boston women wanted a home where they could eat, sleep, dine, bathe, entertain their guests at will, and meet when they chose; and in this beautiful home, to employ: the words of a great writer, "That which they so greatly desire is greatly realized," for they have a membership of 5,000 women, representing 175 towns and cities, extending from Nova Scotia to Michigan. The lounge, which is described by the club member as a EDITORIAL 23 modernized edition of the formal parlor, has in it a magnificent old mantelpiece, with an elegant mirror, and an equally elegant chandelier. Beautiful pieces of furniture may be seen on every side, for many loans and gifts have been made to the house by persons who had in their possession rare pieces of furniture. For instance, in the lounge is found a most exquisite inlaid writing desk that belonged to Governor Winthrop; on it was a vase of cut flowers. Everywhere cut flowers were in evidence, and everywhere the receptacles holding the cut flowers were most attractive, The curve of the main stairway is said to be a study in exact proportions. In the hall where the staircase is found, is a beautiful mirror, in a great frame, that, like grandfathers clock, stands an the floor and reaches far up the sides of the wall. SESE STO EOR STR a ENTRANCE TO WOMEN'S CITY CLUB, BOSTON 24 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Having told you something of our abiding place, I want to tell you how we spent our time outside the Club House. The first afternoon, in company with Dr. A. E. Winship we drove in Miss O'Connor's car, through an especially beautiful part of Boston finally passing the New England Conservatory of Music. It was remarked in the course of the drive, that a goodly number of Utah students had trained in the Conservatory, at one time or another. Miss O'Connor appeared to be greatly astonished that Utah music students should seek the New England Conservatory which, to be sure, was a distinct compliment to Utah music and Utah musicians, for Miss O'Connor 'nad heard both. From Boston we drove to Bedford, where for a time we followed the Paul Revere road, thence to Summerville, and on, finally coming to the Charles River and Cambridge, where we passed the homes of Longfellow and Lowell, and Mt. Auburn Cemetery where they are buried. At 4 o'clock we were driven to the campus of Harvard University. There we were taken into one of the choicest places in the Harvard Library, where we saw the Harry Elkins Weidner collection. Everything was harmonious; the building, the lovely Sargent paintings on each side of the door where we entered, and the rare and beautifully bound and beautifully decorated books upon the shelves. This special collection is in charge if Mr. George Parker Winship, son of Dr. A. E. Winship. Through the courtesy of Dr, and Mrs. Winship and Mr. George Parker Winship, our party, consisting of three Massachussetts teachers, Miss Elliott and myself were served refreshments in this very choice library room. The second day we were driven by Miss O'Connor through a series of neat little New England villages of white frame houses and green shutters, surrounded by lovely hardwood trees and lawns that needed no hosepipe' to keep them from withering. In the midst of all this green, the pink hydrangea put forth its lovely bunches of blossoms, in preat profusion. We were on our way to Plymouth, the historic spot where the pilgrims landed in 1620. As we passed along we saw people gathering cranberries that you perhaps ate at your Thanksgiving or Christmas dinners. Arriving at Plymouth we visited Plymouth Rock, fully protected since 1920, when the Pilgrim Tercentenary was held in America. As we walked through the streets of Plymouth we marked the sites where many of the early Pilgrim Fathers built their homes; also the cemetery where many found a last resting place, and where corn was planted that the Indians might not be able to count the dead. In Plymouth is found a most interesting hall of relics, known as Pilgrim Hall. In this hall may be seen Governor EDITORIAL (43) Bradford's Bible, the portrait of Governor Edward Winslow, the only known portrait of a Mayflower passenger, the Bible owned by John Alden, fragments of a quilt that once belonged to Rose Standish, the iron pot, pewter platter and sword, that belonged to Miles Standish, and two little caps worn by Peregrine White, who was born in the cabin of the Mayflower, Nov. 20, 1620, and who was the first white child born in New England. After the delightful visit to Plymouth we hastened back to Boston, where we were guests at a dinner at the Boston College Club. As special guests at this dinner our hostesses, Miss Mary McSkimmon, Miss Mary Elizabeth O'Connor, Miss Ada Chevalier and Miss Annie Carleton Woodward, who had left no stone unturned to make our visit both pleasant and interesting, invited Dr. Payson Smith, Commissioner of Education of the State of Massachussetts, and our well known friend Dr. Albert E. Winship. All of the Massachussetts people are acquainted with Utah, and all spoke well of her, which indicates that they were treated courteously while guests in our state. The next morning we left Massachussetts with happy memories, and a most friendly attitude toward the state and its people. Of Interest to Women Two years ago a department called "Of Interest to Women" was conducted in the Magazine under the supervision of Mrs. Lalene H. Hart. Owing to Mrs. Hart's illness, however, the department was discontinued. But now this department will be resumed. If you have a way of saving time, energy, or money, which has proved practicable, or if you have found a way that has helped you in your home or family, and that you think would be helpful to others, write it up, very briefly and send it to Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, at 931 Elm Avenue, Salt Lake City. One dollar will be given for every article published in the Magazine. Those who wish articles returned must inclose stamped, selfaddressed envelope. A Perfect Ending of an Imperfect Day By Eunice Iverson Gardner Mrs. Robert Bates—familiarly known among her friends as Madge Bates—was "in the dumps." Usually she went about with a calm manner and a sunny face, but today her screwed-up countenance and fretful tone as she ceased her dishwashing long enough to button little Margaret's bloomers, foretold that a thunder-storm was brewing. Margaret snatched up her straw hat from the floor and merrily skipped off to join her two noisy brothers who were playing "Indian" in the backyard. It had been an extremely warm afternoon, even for May; and now that the cool evening was approaching, the children's spirit rose accordingly. Mrs. Bates resumed her dishwashing with a resigned yet determined air. Her ear caught the whistle of a boy as he sauntered past her gate. He was whistling, "When you come to the end of a perfect day." This was the proverbial straw that broke the camel's back. Madge hurriedly scoured the kitchen sink and hung up the dishpan with a bang, and then sank into the little rocker bursting into a flood of tears! It had been such a trying day! Both babies—eight-month-old twin girls—had been very restless during the night, and consequently her sleep had been greatly disturbed. Toward morning they had fallen asleep, and Madge slipped out of bed at five o'clock in order to water the lawn at the appointed time. First she made a fire in the kitchen range, so the bath water would be ready for the children as soon as they were awake. A busy Saturday lay ahead of her, and she wanted to make the most of the precious morning hours. Leaving the hose adjusted for the lawn, she went indoors again and mixed a batch of dough. Then she prepared the cereal for the babies' bottles—it had to cook three hours in a double boiler before being strained, and mixed with the correct amount of sterilized milk, limewater, sugar, etc. She also started cooking the oatmeal for the breakfast. After taking another peep at the babies to assure herself that they were still sleeping, she began putting the baby-flannels, etc., to soak in a solution of Lux and warm water. Then she looked at her sewing machine, still burdened with mending from Tuesday's washing. She hurriedly sorted out a pair of stockings for each child and mended them, and resolutely patched the knees of PERFECT ENDING OF AN IMPERFECT DAY 29 mothers—how to do my housework and care for two small children, and yet have any time for myself or outside interests. "I had managed my mother's home at different periods and really liked housework, especially cooking. But now it was a daily struggle to get ahead of household drudgery. Try as I would, there seemed so many tasks to do, so many steps to take, and so many matters needing my attention and supervision. Just as I felt I had reduced the cleaning to its lowest terms, I found the cooking, or the laundry work, or the mending, claiming the remainder of my time. It was a continuous conflict to do justice. To all the household tasks, and yet find enough time for the children. And, between it all, I knew I was not doing justice to myself, and I was becoming more and more tired out. Indeed, I was often without enough energy to dress up in the evening, and when'my husband came home, I was generally too spiritless to enjoy listening to his story of the day's work." Madge stopped reading long enough to give Bob a big squeeze, and take a spin around the room in a merry dance of delight. "Oh, Bob, listen to this:" '"I found that the purpose of scientific management was to save time and effort, and to make things run more smoothly." Madge solemnly read the twelve titles of the chapters listed in the contents as follows: 1 The Labor-Saving Kitchen. 2. Plans and Methods for Daily Housework- 3. Helpful Household Tools. 4. Methods of Cleaning. 5. Food Planning for the Family. 6. The Practical Laundry: Methods and Tools. 7. Family Financing and Record-Keeping. 8. Efficient Household Purchasing. 9. The Servantless Household. 10. Management of Houseworkers. 11. Planning the Efficient Home. 12. Health and Personal Efficiency. "Bob,. You're an angel! How did you ever happen to get this book? I feel as if I were Aladdin with his wonderful lamp. Since the babies came I've often been discouraged with the housework. Now I've found the magical key to unlock the door to all my household problems! I do so want to be an efficient wife, mother, and homemaker, and still find time for personal advancement and community interests. Now that you are going to be home all the time and the babies are older, and J have this wonderful book as a guide, I can do so much more, as I long to do. I'm going to write a daily and weekly schedule to follow. The babies necessarily will be the center around which everything must revolve. Their feeding hours will govern my arrangements for the regular household duties. I intend to make allowance for leisure time, too. I have been stupid not to budget my time— 30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE one of my most valuable possessions—and save so much worry and friction and time." Madge eagerly skipped through the alluring pages, then suddenly exclaimed: 'Today I was positively rude to the Relief Society teachers!' Now if I had only read this paragraph on interruptions, beforehand, I never would have been in such a frame of mind. She read: "Again, so many women allow themselves to be needlessly affected by interruptions of one kind or anothér. The author has had women tell her, over and over, that the interruptions coincident with housekeeping work make them nervous and upset. Now, this need not be true. It is a physical fact that monotonous work is far more fatiguing than interrupted work. The point is, not that the interruption makes the woman nervous, but her own mental attitude toward the interruption is the real cause of her irritation. If she would relax and welcome the interruption, instead of allowing herself to be irritated by it, each interruption would only serve as a rest and change of work, and means of lessening tension, instead of increasing it." "Now, Bob, do listen to these first few lines in the splendid conclusion:" "Household Engineering has only tried to show the new, modern conception of home-making, with its many possibilities for scientific work, for the use of improved machinery in the home, for less waste in materials, energy, and time—to the end that the woman herself and her family, and the nation be developed to the fullest power and vantage ground in health, happiness, and true prosperity." Bob explained that he had thought that he would bring her something different this time instead of the customary candy and flowers. The little lady in the bookstore had enthusiastically recommended this particular book. | Madge tenderly entwined her arms about Bob's neck and said: "Oh, Bob! This is the end of a—I can't say 'perfect day,' but it is the perfect ending of one little imperfect day, and the dawn of many more perfect ones to come! See, it is midnight— just time to feed the babies, so if our singing awakens them it won't matter." He took out his violin and she went to the piano, and together they sang the world-famed song with all the rapture that was in their loving hearts, as they thought of their care-free courting days, and the promising future in their happy little home. A laugh is worth a hundred groans in any market.—Charles Lamb.
Importance of Diet for the Expectant Mother By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education
[This is the first of a series of articles on "Nutrition," by Miss Cox, who has studied the subject with Mary Swartz Rose, Dr. Henry Sheinar of Columbia University, New York, Dr. Lafayette B. Mendell of Yale, and Dr. E. V. McCollum of Johns Hopkins.—Editors.]
Health is an 'asset. It is something to be actively sought. Every expectant mother should desire health for herself and unborn child. In order to accomplish this she should live in accordance with the health rules prescribed by her physician. Plenty of fresh air, exercise, and sleep are most necessary during this period of physical change. Good appetite and digestion, proper elimination, and restful sleep do not result where there is mental turmoil. Equanimity of mind is an important factor toward good health. Worry of any kind and uncontrolled emotional disturbances are very deleterious at this time. Effort should be made to carefully avoid, or control, these perplexities. Recent findings from feeding experiments on animals have given more positive information on the diet of the expectant mother than was formerly known. These studies have emphasized the importance of ash constituents in the daily diet. As it is impossible to build a house without brick, it is equally preposterous to expect to build bones, teeth, nerves and tissues of the embryo without furnishing in the mother's diet the necessary food elements in right proportions. Lack of these elements in the diet of the expectant mother have resulted in illness, nervous instability, and loss of hair and teeth. The old saying that "every baby means a tooth" might well be interpreted into "imperfect diet for the pregnant woman means loss of teeth, hair and general physical tone." This is true because the tissues from the mother's body are sacrificed when necessary, in order that the child may approach normality. Recent studies have also shown that sacrifice of the tissues of the mother are needless when the food supply is adequate. Formerly the accepted definition of food was that food is anything which taken into the body, furnishes heat and energy or builds tissues. The present description of food includes another important additional requirement. The new standard asks that food must also regulate the body processes. This last requirement is the result of careful study and experimentation on the importance and use of the so-called ash constituents or mineral salts.
32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The present dietary customs of the extensive use of fats, starches, sugars, and meats have decreased the former wide use of one or more of the so-called protective foods—milk, green and root vegetables, and fruits. These three classes of foods are especially important in supplying the body with the three ash constituents most frequently lacking in the average American diet. These three elements are calcium, phosphorous and iron, The chief source of calcium is milk, and it is needed for all skeletal and cell structures. Among other things, it helps to control irritability of muscle including heart muscle, and clotting of blood. It also neutralizes acidity. Sherman's experiments indicates that a quart of milk per day is necessary in the individual diet in addition to the calcium obtained from fruits, vegetables, and coarse cereal products. Where there are extra demands for skeletal development this requirement should be somewhat increased. The custom of some pregnant women taking a bedtime lunch of milk and crackers can be recommended. Other important sources of calcium are, almonds, beans, brown bread, cheese, walnuts, turnip tops, egg yolks, and carrots. Phosphorous is also a necessary constituent for skeletal development. It is used in cell growth and also helps to control any excess of acid. The chief sources of phosphorous are asparagus, almonds, barley, beans, chocolate, cheese, egg yolks, graham flour, pomegranate, rye, shredded wheat, spinach, turnip tops, lean meats and milk. Iron is necessary for the development of red corpuscles in the blood. It carries oxygen, is used also for cell activities. Its chief sources are cheese, egg yolk, maple syrup, raisins, spinach, lettuce, nuts, squash, beet tops, oatmeal, carrots, and onions. Chemical analysis shows that there is a higher percentage of iron in the tissues of the young infant than at any other time. This extra supply is to tide over the nursing period and necessitates therefore that the expectant mother pay special attention to foods containing this important element. In feeding experimental diets to animals it has been found that calcium free diets for pigeons will produce perforated breast bones and that other bones of the test animals are also found to be imperfect. Additional proof has been found by several experiments carried on by different men which shows that calcium or lime in the diet is necessary for bone growth. Experiments such as these lead on to wonder what the x-ray would show in the bones of pregnant and nursing mothers whose diet has been deficient in calcium and phosphorous over a long period of time. Dr. McCollum, at Johns Hopkins University, as well as Dr. Mendell of Yale, have proved conclusively through experimental studies on rats and guinea pigs and through the examination of
DIET FOR EXPECTANT MOTHERS 33
they are usually of good size and shape. When there is this arches are often the result of imperfect diet. The shape of the tooth arch as well as the size and shape of the teeth themselves periods cannot be overemphasized. There are also Opinions which are not always right relative fort by feeling that they are not eating enough for the new responsibility, During the first five months the food requirein the food demand is during the last eight weeks of pregnancy as during this period the child doubles its weight. It might also be stated that some women foolishly limit their food intake. Of digestive disturbances. Lack of mastication or bolting of food decreases distinction of flavor. Good mastication intensifies palatability, flavor, odor, and texture and improves digestion. Good digestion regulates appetite, In order to maintain a healthy intestinal tract proper elimination must be given attention. Some causes of constipation are listed below:, 1. Lack of organic acids. (The chief sources of these are fruits, although a little is found in vegetables. This is additional
34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
argument for having some fresh fruit in the diet every day. The organic acid in apples is malic, in oranges it is citric.) 2. Lack of ballast. (When diet consists of sweets, starches, fats, and meats.) 3. Too constant irritation. (Some intestinal linings become irritated by continued use of coarse cereal mixtures and breads.) Irregular eating and evacuation. Laziness. (Exercise is necessary for intestinal health.) Intestinal obstruction. Construction of abdominal organs. Weakened muscles. Nervous disturbances. (Anger, fear or other emotional disturbances. ) 10. Astringents. (The skins and. Seeds of fruits are astringent). 11. Too frequently use of laxatives. This cuts down motility of intestines. Not good to use any one medicine for too long a period.: 12. Constant taking of enemas. 13. Too little moisture—Liberal use of water is very important. There is also another very important food factor which requires consideration, but as the "protective foods" already discussed are the chief sources the vitamines further discussion will be deferred until the next lesson which will deal with Diet for the Nursing Mother. In general, interpretation of the above principles relative to the diet of the expectant mother means an easily digested diet containing some laxative foods, such as fruits, green leaf vegetables, and cereals. The meat consumption should not be more than a small serving a day. Root vegetables are also valuable because of their ash constituents as well as laxative properties. Additional protein can be furnished in an easily digestible form in the quart of milk a day requirement. Eggs may also be used for additional protein. If the above listed foods are used generously the ash and vitamine requirements will be met.
Women in the Utah Legislature
MRS. ARTHUR E. GRAHAM
As a representative of Salt Lake county, in the lower house of the state legislature, Mrs. Graham has the four-fold qualification of wife, mother, active citizen and former legislator. She is the daughter of Samuel and Isabelle Bryson, of Bountiful, Utah, and the wife of Arthur Graham. Twice she has been president of the Neighborhood House, in which capacity she acquired firsthand information on many of the educational and social needs of the community.. In the interest of children who require special care and, training, she worked to place the State Industrial School under the school system. She secured money to buy machinery to be placed in the State Penitentiary, where prisoners are now engaged in the manufacture of over-alls, thus aiding in the support of their families. As a member of the Delinquency Committee of the State Board of Welfare she became familiar with the needs of the prisoners in the matter of employment.
MRS. W. MONROE PAXMAN
With several years of active service in business, education, community welfare, and the home, Achsa E. Paxman is exceptionally well-fitted to be a law-maker in the state. She is the daughter of S. P. And Etta N. Eggertson, the wife of W. Monroe Paxman, of Provo, children. After graduating from the public schools of that city, she attended the Brigham Young University and the University of Utah. Many positions, political and, religious, have come to her in the course of her active life. In 1922, she was sent to represent Utah at the Pan American Convention of the League of Women Voters, at Baltimore, and in the fall of that year was appointed state president of the league. She was vice-chairman of the Republican state convention held in Salt Lake City, in 1924. In the Church she has acted at various times as stake president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and as Utah, and the mother of five =|
36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
counselor in the stake presidency of the Relief Society, both in' Utah stake. She still holds this latter office.
MRS. CARL LLOYD SMART
Mrs. Smart is older than she looks, and makes no secret of her age. Idaho is the state of her birth, which occurred in Thatcher, December 12, 1887. At the age of six, she went with her parents, the late Joseph S. And Margaret Petty Hendricks, to Logan, where she received her education in the grammar schools and the Brigham Young college. All her grandparents and, great-grandparents were Utah pioneers of '48, '49 and '50. She is a "daughter" of the Mormon Battalion. Her ancestors were among the early settlers of America. In 1908 she married Carl Lloyd Smart, the eldest son of the late Thomas Smart. Ten years later she accompanied her husband to the Eastern states where they both served as missionaries. Since their return to Utah, they have made their home in Salt Lake City.
MRS. N. A. DUNYON
Mrs. Dunyon is returning to the legislature for her second term of office, as representative from Salt Lake county, having made 'such a record as secured her renomination by her party. A native of Salt Lake City, being the daughter of Mrs. Elizabeth Bonnemart, she received her early education in its public schools, later attending the St. Mary's academy and the University of Utah. 'As chairman of Indian Welfare, a department of the State Federation of Women's Clubs, she has rendered distinctive service. In the last legislature, she served on the Public Health and Education committees where she is said; to have done excellent work. Mining interests also received, her attention.
Conventions and Conferences
General Board members visited Relief Society stake conventions and conferences, which were held in all the stakes during 1924, as follows:
Alberta—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Alpine—Mrs, Louise Y. Robison, Emma A. Empey. Bannock—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Bear Lake—Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. Beaver—Mrs. Julia A. F, Lund. Benson—Mrs, Barbara H. Richards. Big Horn—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Bingham—Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. Blackfoot—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Blaine—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Boise—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Box Elder—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Burley—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Cache—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. Carbon—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Cassia—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Cottonwood—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. Curlew—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Deseret—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Duchesne—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Emery—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Ensign—Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Mrs. Julia A. Child. Franklin—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Fremont—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Garfield—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Gunnison—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Granite—Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Grant—Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Hyrum—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Idaho—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Jordan—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Annie Wells Cannon. Juab—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Juarez—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Kanab—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Lethbridge—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Liberty—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Logan—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Lost River—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Los Angeles—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Malad—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Maricopa—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Millard—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Minidoka—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Montpelier—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Moapa—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Morgan—Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. Mt. Ogden—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Lotta P, Baxter. Mrs. Mrs. Nebo—Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. North Davis—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. North Sanpete—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. North Sevier—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. North Weber—Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. Ogden—Mrs, Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Oneda—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Oquirrh—Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. Panguitch—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Pafowan—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Pioneer—Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Pocatello—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Portneuf—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Raft River—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Rigby—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Roosevelt—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. St. George—Mrs. Julia A. Child. St. Johns—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. St. Joseph—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Salt Lake—Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Lalene H. Hart. San Juan—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. San Luis—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Sevier—Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. Shelley—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Snowflake—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. South Davis—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Mrs. Amy W. Evans. South Sanpete—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. South Sevier—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Star Valley—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Summit—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Taylor—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Teton—Mrs, Julia A. F. Lund. Tintic—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Tooele—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Twin Falls—Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Uintah—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Union—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Utah—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Wasatch—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Wayne—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Weber—Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. Woodruff—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Yellowstone—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter. Young—Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD Amy Brown Lyman
Annual Dues. Women of the Relief Society will remember that annual dues for 1925, including membership and stake dues, should be paid in January, and not later than February, 1925. They will therefore be prepared to remit the same to the officers or to the visiting teachers. Every stake takes a pride in having the dues sent in on time. Last year Weber stake used a small envelope for collecting dues which was very helpful. Printed on the envelope following the space for the name of donor was this: "My Relief Society dues for year 1924—50c. (The Society must pay for the member who fails to pay her dues.)"
Cottonwood Stake. I At a fair held recently in Brinton ward, the Relief Society, which numbers only thirty members, cleared $131.95, which was turned in on the new chapel. Each pair of teachers of the eight districts was asked to be responsible for the making of one quilt. A house to house canvass was made which resulted in materials for eight lovely quilts, which were duly made. Seven of the quilts brought in $65.50, and the eighth was given as a prize. The apron and notions booths was also very successful, bringing in $66.45.
Snowflake Stake. As a means of publicity for the group convention held in this stake, and in order to insure a good attendance, Mrs. Pearl N. Fish, the stake secretary of Snowflake stake Relief Society, sent out seventy letters announcing the meetings and program, and calling attention to the importance of the gathering. An excellent response was the result.
North Davis Stake. On the 15th of October, the North Davis stake Relief Society board entertained in honor of the ward presidents. The stake presidency, high council, and the bishoprics of the several wards were special guests. The hall was decorated in keeping with Hallowe'en. The program consisted of games and dancing in which all took part. At 10:30 an excellent luncheon was served to 125 people, during which President Emily Brough responded to the toast, "Our Officers,' and the Farmington Quartette furnished special numbers. The occasion furnished excellent opportunity for all to get acquainted.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I (First Week in March)
Theology and Testimony
THE ADAMIC DISPENSATION
The Period—From the Advent of Man to the Translation of the City of Enoch, About rooo Years
Part I—Adam
A. Some LEADING EVENTS
1. The Fall and Banishment—In the Garden of Eden our first parents became estranged from God. Here they took into their systems the seeds of physical death. Here they became like Gods in one particular, knowing good from evil—therefore, moral agents. Here they received the spiritual death-sentence of banishment from the presence of God: 'Wherefore I the Lord God caused that he should be cast out from the Garden of Eden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became spiritually dead, which is the first death, even that same death, which is the last death, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say—Depart, ye cursed." Doc. And Cov., Sec. 29:41. A fulness of the gospel in the Garden seems to have been limited to one ordinance, two commands, and the teaching of the doctrines of obedience, free agency, and penalties. Outside of the Garden of Eden, with a memory of all the joys of Eden, the father and mother of the race found themselves face to face with the double command, 'Replenish and subdue the earth." We have no record of a single murmur from either of them. They had lost Eden, but they had each other. The first ordinance performed on earth which made them one carried over into the heaven-making process of home building. Without the recollection of their pre-existent promise to face thorns and thistles, and legions of spirits who lost their first estate, this single pair faced the fight for existence with no dream as yet of life hereafter or of salvation or exaltation. Among the new experiences came the one of the realization that, '""Absence makes the heart grow fonder," and they found themselves yearning for God * * * They were ready for the first great event outside of Eden,
40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
2. The First Prayer—Adam and Eve prayed not only as children and youths can pray; but as parents only can pray. It appears that as grandparents they sent this petition from earth to heaven. (See Pearl of Great Price; Book of Moses v:2, 3, 4.) To that prayer came an answer, in the voice of God—the voice from which Adam had fled. Was it not in answer to the universal cry of the soul to God, 'Lord, what wouldst thou have me do" The cry that gives evidence of unconditional spiritual surrender to the will of God; a condition in which Jesus always kept himself.
3. The First Sacrifice—The answer to the prayer came. It was a requirement, a gospel requirement. Adam and Eve were to know that "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven." They offered the best to the Lord: the best of themselves, their hearts; the best of their possessions, the firstling of the flock. Moses V:5, -. The obedience to the first command outside of Eden has sometimes been called erroneously blind obedience. The sacrifice was an outward test of the inner self; a material test of the spiritual self. Tested and found true, man was ready for the next great event: an official presentation of the redemption part of the gospel.;
4. The First Messenger—An angel, a messenger from God came with the message of eternal life for mortal man: a plan by which banished man may come back into the enjoyable presence of God with an everlasting resurrected body. The revelation of this plan filled Adam and Eve with so much faith and hope that they rejoiced over even the sad experience of the past, out of which the Lord in his majesty and mercy had brought good.
5. The First Baptism—This event completed the spiritual re-birth. It was a free-agency birth, an official birth; they were "born of the water and of the spirit:" "And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. "And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever; "And thou art after the order of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity. "Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons. Amen." Book of Moses vi:64-67., Closely related to the first baptism was the bestowal of the Priesthood indicated by the contents of verse sixty-seven, above quoted. -—
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 41
6. The First Great Sorrow—The most woeful event in the life of Adam and Eve was the first death in the family. They had not failed to teach their children and set them good examples. They had prayed for their children and had done all they could for the spiritual growth of their posterity; but in spite of it all they met an event that made a martyr and a devil. The first funeral was held under circumstances indescribably distressing. It was not the death of Abel that cut deepest as a sorrow blow, but the conduct of Cain and the other children who were accessory to his crime. Their fate was the chief source of sorrow. "And Adam and Eve, his wife, mourned before theLord because of Cain and his brethren.' (Pearl of Great Price; Moses v:27.)
7. The Birth of Seth—It appears that the death of Abel left the posterity of Adam without a person worthy of the holy Priesthood and we can imagine what hope, what prospective and immediate happiness accompanied the birth of the son who would "walk in the ways of the Lord", and officiate in the name of the Savior yet unborn. Happy day for the human family, the day when Seth was born.
8. The Great Home-Coming—Among the joy-giving events was the home-coming for blessings, when Adam blessed his posterity and they blessed him. "Three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, who were all High Priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and there bestowed upon them his last blessing. "And the Lord appeared unto them, and they rose up and blessed Adam, and called him Michael, the prince, the archangel. "And the Lord administered comfort unto Adam, and said unto him, I have set thee to be at the head, a multitude of nations shall come of thee, and thou art a prince over them forever." Doc. And Cov., 107:53-55.
B. Brief Biography OF ADAM. The archangel who led the host of heaven against Lucifer, (Rev. 12:7); the son of God, (Luke 3:38); the father of the human race, (Genesis); the contender with Satan over the body of Moses, (Jude. 9); a celestial-glory being, (Doc. And Cov., Commentary, p. 571); the one who is to lead the army against Satan in the final contest, (Doc. And'Cov., Sec. 88:111-116).
C. Summary of Doctrines TAUGHT. Free agency, rewards and punishments, atonement, faith, repentance, baptism, resurrection of the body, final judgment, preexistence and eternal progress. Ordinances performed—marriages, baptism, conferring of the Priesthood, giving of Patriarchal blessings, and possibly others.
42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
D. Some Lessons To THE AGES. Obedience must be learned; 'Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven;' God and one man are a majority. Prayer is a key for opening the heavens.
E. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. About what time is covered by the Adamic Dispensation?
2. To what extent did man become like unto God through the Fall?
3. What seems to have been the fulness of the gospel to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden?
4. Why was the redemption part of the plan of salvation not given to them in the Garden?
5. Describe the baptism of Adam as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price.
6. Discuss the ways and means we have, which Adam and Eve did not have, for obeying the command still in force, "Teach these things freely to your children."
7. What does the last sentence of the Pearl of Great Price,, Moses v:23 indicate concerning the destiny of Cain and Satan?
8. Name some of the positions held by Adam of which we have record.
9. Mention the doctrines taught and the ordinances performed in the days of Adam.
10. How many patriarchs were present at the "home-coming" three years before the death of Adam? (See Doc. And Cov., Sec. 107:53).
LESSON II (Second Week in March)
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH CONSUMPTION OF MILK
A. Some women feel that milk is a difficult thing to handle, but if the K. C. Rule is followed the problem is nearly solved. Keep Clean. Keep Cool. Keep Covered.
B. Delicious milk dishes.
1. Milk soups.
2. Milk puddings.
3. Bread and milk.
4. Cottage cheese.
5. Ice cream.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 43
C. A quart of milk a day for every growing child.
D. Suggestions for safety. 1, Source of supply. 2. How handled. 3. Pasteurized milk considered safest.
LESSON III (Third Week in March)
Literature
EMILY DICKINSON
A few months ago the Literary Digest announced a new edition of Emily Dickinson's poems. Interest in Emily Dickinson had waned considerably, when all at once a revival of interest in her poems occurred in literary circles. So far reaching is this revival that publishers are willing to chance a new edition of her poems, feeling sure that they are taking no financial risk. All this is not without reason. Today we have a type of poetry which we call new poetry. Many of our modern poets are of this school. Amy Lowell, the sister of the president of Harvard University, is conspicuous as a writer of the new poetry. The new poetry favors colorful words, words full of suggestiveness; that is, words which arouse images of beautiful sights or beautiful sounds. The poets who write the new poetry put much emphasis on words of this sort. Emily Dickinson did just that thing forty or fifty years ago, but because she was somewhat alone in her method she did not attract the attention that she would do today, now that her style of writing has become the fashion of the hour, for all students of literature know that there are fashions in literature just as there are fashions in dress, and all women know that fashions in dress come and go, and often come back again. Emily Dickinson was born in Amherst, the well known college town of the state of Massachusetts, Dec. 10, 1830, the year the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, and died at Amherst, May 15, 1886. Because it is difficult to find her poems in any except very complete libraries, we shall include. Some six or seven in this lesson, and trust to our readers to find additional biographical material elsewhere. If the task proves difficult, it is not of any great consequence, for Emily Dickinson's poems did not grow out of biographical situations, as did many of Longfellow's, but
46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
He glanced with rapid eyes That hurried all abroad,; They looked like frightened beads, I thought; He stirred his velvet head Like one in danger; cautious, I offered him a crumb, And he unrolled his feathers And rowed him softer home.
Than oars divide the ocean, Too silver for a seam, Or butterflies, off banks of noon, Leap, splashless, as they swim.
While Emily Dickinson is closely allied in her work with many of our present day poets, she is also like the New England poets in that frequently she implies a moral in her poems. A moral is implied in, "The Robin," in, "If I can stop one heart from breaking," and in Chartless." We shall conclude the lesson by quoting the last two.
IF I CAN STOP ONE HEART FROM BREAKING
If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching, Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin Into his nest again, I shall not live in vain.
CHARTLESS
I never saw a moor, I never saw the sea; Yet know I how the heather looks And what a wave must be.
I never spoke with God, Nor visited in heaven; Yet certain am I of the spot As if the chart were given.
This exquisite little poem reveals the poet's own faith in God
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47
and immortality, consequently we feel it supplies a fitting climax to the lesson.
Questions and Problems
1. How many months had the Church been' organized when Emily Dickinson was born?
2. Suggest a group of images that appeal to the sight in the poem, "Autumn."
3. What do the words evanescence and cochineal mean?
4. Do you think the poet's description of the movement of the humming bird particularly happy, when she speaks of it as, "A route of evanescence with a revolving wheel?"
5. Where is Tunis located?
6. Point out the analogy existing between the first and second stanzas in, '"'Chartless."
7. What are the implied morals in the three poems, "The Robin," "If I Can Stop One Heart From Breaking," and "Chartless?"
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in March)
Social Service
The Unstable Family
Human experiences of various kinds have the power to shake and uproot even the finest convictions and the most dependable ideals. Frequently, we see individuals who have been thoroughly dependable, who have been as stable as the most steadfast rock, disintegrate and crumble to pieces. The elements in human experience that cause this change from stability to instability often are obscure and difficult to analyze. But it is important to those who are working with individuals and families to attempt to gain an understanding of the experiences and influences that cause this deterioration. The term unstable as applied to individuals or families cannot be given an exact definition. An unstable family may be one that misfortune, such as sickness, accident, or death, has disrupted, leaving some of the members without the normal family ties. Or it may be one that has been broken by more subtle destroying influences, with the result that one or both of the parents desert or neglect the children, shifting the responsibility of their 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE care to relatives, friends, or public agencies. An unstable family may be one that lives together, but where selfishness and bitterness have broken the real bonds of affection and solidarity. An unstable family can be recognized not entirely by its exterior mode of living but also by its inner life, by the attitude of the members toward one another, by the depth of affection, by the presence or undue selfishness, and by the lack of willingness of each one to shoulder the burdens of the others. The most obvious manifestations of instability—desertion,. Divorce, and the neglect of children—often come to the attention of family agencies. The treatment that is usually applied is not very effective. The deserter or the parent who neglects his children can be summoned to court and the state may order him to provide for his family, or it may remove the children from his custody.. While such measures are necessary in extreme cases, the remedy applied does not affect the real problem. Long b-fore desertion or neglect of family responsibilities brings a family to the attention of an agency or results in court charges, the insidious elements that cause family disintegration are at work. In order to understand and treat the disrupted family, it is necessary to know what experiences, circumstances and misfortunes brought about the disruption. It may be possible, then, with an understanding of the factors that were responsible for the deterioration, to rebuild the family to a level of stability. New habits and more wholesome attitudes must be introduced. The broken family must be given a better understanding of the causes of their failures, and they must be given courage to start the process of reconstruction. It is, of course, more far-sighted to recognize early symptoms and possible causes of family instability and to control as far as possible the circumstances which later would lead to serious difficulties. One of the most fundamental factors in insuring stability in any given family and thus preventing possible disruption is the ability of young married couples to learn to adjust early to the responsibilities of marriage and parenthood. Where an individual, for example, a man, lives alone he may do largely as he pleases. Upon the entrance of a second individual into his life, such as a woman who becomes his wife, adjustment must begin immediately in order to insure peace. Upon the advent of a third individual, such as a child born to a young couple, further adjustments are necessary on the part of the parents. And, in proportion as the family increases in number, adjustment must take place in the same ratio. Petty annoyances caused by oversights, small failures, or quick temper can be serious irritants in the family circle. The 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Questions and Problems 1. What are some of the manifestations of an unstable family? 2, What are some of the causes? 3. Discuss a constructive, preventive plan which, in your opinion, would help to insure family solidarity and prevent disruption. 4. Why do women sometimes get discouraged? 5. Why do men sometimes desert their families? 6. Is it a wise policy to permit deserted wives to place children in orphanages? 7 What should be done by a social worker before children are removed from homes because of neglect? Supplement to October Theology Lesson Published in August Magazine In answer to the question: "Who were the 'ninety and nine' in the Parable of the Good Shepherd as recorded in Luke 15:2- 7?" the following is submitted: _ "A direct application of the parable appears in the Lord's concise address to the Pharisees and scribes: "I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.' Were they, the ninety and nine, who, by self-estimation had strayed not, being 'just persons, which need no repentance?' Some readers say they catch this note of just sarcasm in the Master's concluding words. In the earlier part of the story, the Lord himself appears as the solicitous Shepherd, and by plain implication his example is such as the theocratic leaders ought to emulate. Such a conception puts the Pharisees and scribes in the position of shepherds rather than of sheep. Both explications are tenable; and each is of value as portraying the status and duty of professing servants of the Master in all ages."'—Page 455 Jesus the Christ by James E. Talmage. "Many have marveled that there should be greater rejoicing over the recovery of one stray sheep, or the saving of a soul that had been as one lost, than over the many who have not been in such jeopardy. In the safe-folded ninety and nine the Shepherd had continued joy; but to him came a new accession of happiness, brighter and stronger because of his recent grief, when the lost was brought back to the fold."—Page 390, Jesus the Christ, by James E. Talmage. In keeping with what is known of the matchless teaching GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 51 ability of Jesus we may think of his illustrations in reaching the various points of contact, in classes and individuals, consistently interpretable from more than one point of view. To the Pharisees, were not the "ninety and nine" intended to represent that self-righteous class? To the disciples, the "ninety and nine' were no doubt considered as those who were safe in the kingdom, a constant joy to the Lord, but who would be relatively forgotten, for the moment, in the flood of joy that accompanied the rescue of a human soul. It would be an occasion when the joy of the triumph of the rescuer, and the joy of the Presence of the rescued, meet and form a current of gladsomeness that, for the moment, sweep all other joys into forgetfulness. This high tide of happiness occasioned by repentance will not, however, at once carry the repentant one to a place of permanent preference even equal to those who have not taken long the detour route to heaven. It seems safe to say that to the self-righteous Pharisees the patable was a rebuke: they were to see themselves as the "ninety and nine." To the disciples the parable was a sermon on the value of a soul: they were to see the "ninety and nine" as angels in heaven joining in the rejoicing in which they were quite forgotten. George H. Brimhall. Outline of Guide Lessons for 1925 A brief outline of the Guide Lessons for the coming year is here given: The Theological department will study these subjects under the general heading of "The Dispensations of the Gospel," under this will come: 1. The Adamic Dispensation, 2. The Noachian Dispensation. 3. The Abrahamic Dispensation. 4, The Mosaic Dispensation, 5. The Messianic Dispensation. The Literary department will continue the study of American authors, and will take up such writers as, Sidney Lanier, Emily Dickenson, James Whitcomb Riley, Eugene Field, Edwin Markham, Joaquin Miller, Amy Lowell and others. Subjects vital to the home and community will be discussed by the teachers during the year 1925. These are The Observance of the Quarantine Law, The Curfew Law, Milk—Its Care and Use, House and Town Clean-Up; The Fly, Cooperation Between School Authorities and Parents in Simplifying Graduation Exercises, Recreation, Physicial Preparation of Chil- Jy From head to foot at less than cost of a dress alone. Bloomer or Chemise Blouse; Vest; Skirt. 1 Pair Lady Tiffany Full Fashioned Hose. One Piece Dress, Blouse and Skirt. Like Cut. ALL FIT FOR A QUEEN IN LUK-SHU-RI KNIT Telephone or write for illustrated booklet to LOUETTA BROWN 214 Templeton Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Mention Relief Society Magazine To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions: It was unanimously decided at the October 1923 Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the. Magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that many of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, Relief Society Magazine — No Difference Between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and CANE Sugar. J BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed refined process, which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR. BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Europeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR. Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY—one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers. BUY BEET SUGAR Those who are indebted to' the Magazine will kindly mail remittance at once, to Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. To Our Patrons and Friends All those who have not yet subscribed to the Relief Society Magazine, we urge to do so that they may have the full volume for the year 1925. — The management of the Relief Society Magazine requests, that whenever possible, remit by Post Office order in payment for subscriptions.
To Our Patrons and Friends
To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relief Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender.
Sample: (Address) Relief Society Magazine, Room 20, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
"To Our Magazine Subscribers
We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.
Magazine Management
A Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah'' By Mrs. J. Long, When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine.
GIFT BOOKS for Your Children
Have our juvenile expert suggest 'gift book titles for your boys' and girls' Christmas. Only the literary and the wholesome has place in our Books for Children. Call and look them over or write for free list of titles and prices.
Choose Your Christmas Greeting Cards Here
Deseret Book Company.
Glazier and 'Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair. $2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75
Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking MAIL ORDERS PREPAID Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85
| 50c per copy. | 44 East on South Temple Eureka, Utah, Box 129. Salt Lake City
All the strength, purity and freshness of the ripe French Olives are sealed in the container bearing the BLUE PINE Label. Widely approved and used for general household and sacred purposes. When you ask for Blue Pine Olive Oil, you are demanding the best.
Other BLUE PINE Products
SCOWCROFT PRODUCT
Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. XII FEBRUARY, 1925 No. 2
CONTENTS
American Fork Canyon in February.... Frontispiece Love's Romance Alfred Lambourne 53 The Editor Abroad Alice. Louise Reynolds 55 Eliza S. Neslin Lula Greene Richards 62 Jewels Annie Wells Cannon 63 A Family of Slaves that Help You..................... Newman I. Butt 64 Like Crumbled Rose Petals.. Ruth Moench Bell 65 Albert Edward Winship Alfred Osmond 79 Editorial—Dr. Albert Edward Winship 81 Lincoln's Appeal for Loyalty to All Laws.... 82 Diet for the Nursing Mother.............. Jean Cox 83 Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart 87 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 89
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class. Matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private
Contain Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine
Following are the bound volumes we have on hand:
5 vols. 1915, leather bound..........................................$3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound .........................................3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound ...........................................2.13 5 vols. 1917, leather bound .........................................3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound.........................................3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound ...........................................2.75 5 vols. 1919, leather bound .........................................3.50 10 vols. 1920, leather bound ........................................3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound .........................................3.50 6 vols. 1922, cloth bound ..........................................2.12 5 vols. 1922, leather bound.........................................3.50
15c extra for postage
All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Temple and Burial Clothes
Complete Suits for Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M—5 p. M.
General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 23 Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City, Utah.
ICE CREAM CANDY: CAKE PUNCHES
deliciously different
PHONE WAS.3225
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS NOW IN STOCK BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.
Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
RECENT ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
'Mt. Carmel, Utah, January 8, 1925. We received the individual sacrament' set in good shape and, speaking in behalf of the people of the ward, are very well pleased with the set. ~
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, January 11, 1925. We received the sacrament sets that the branch has ordered and we-wish to thank you for the prompt service that you gave us in sending them. In regard to the trays we are also very much satisfied as to the finish and size. '
BUREAU OF INFORMATION
For 50 Cents Stamps or M. O.
We will send you a pair of hard metal silver plated pepper and salts like cut. Good for life time as wear. (Cut actual size)
W. M. McConahay, Jeweler When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple Block 64 Main St. Salt Lake City Salt Lake City
NEW GARMENTS
The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request.
For Ladies. For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Light................ .95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight... 1.25 No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light............ 1.25 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Flat.............. 1.45 No. 925—Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803—Extra Quality Ribb...... 1.50 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight..... 2.25 No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton...... 1.85 No. 990—Heavy Ecrn. Cotton........ 2.50 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............ 2.00 No. 9107—Wool & Cotton............... 4.00 No. 850—Imp. Lisle 2.50 No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton.... 4.50
To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra.. We prepay postage to all parts of United States.
Oldest Knitting Company in Utah
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City
Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT
They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
AMERICAN FORK CANYON IN FEBRUARY
THE Relief. Society Magazine Vol. XII FEBRUARY, 1925 No. 2
The Editor Abroad The Land of Scott and Burns Alice Louise Reynolds
As one enters Scotland, one is impressed with its pastoral beauty. On every hand one sees little farms of green grass, flecked here and there with white daisies and purple thistles. These farms are surrounded by fences; sometimes low stone walls, covered -with ivy; sometimes these low stone walls form only the groundwork for a hawthorn hedge; and sometimes, and then they are the most beautiful, there is only the hawthorne hedge. At intervals between these farms are the well kept country roads, the motorists' delight. These roads are not infrequently lined with double rows of trees, making long, green avenues, of trees that have had time to mature—of trees that cast their lovely branches across one's path until one fancies he is in a fairy tower. On these little farms we saw wheat being garnered for the winter, and good, fat sheep carrying heavy coats of long wool, being driven through the country lanes in a very gentle fashion, by very gentle shepherds, it would seem. These sheep were clean, for they spend much time in the green grass, kept clean by frequent rains. On these farms and in the villages adjoining them we saw little white cottages, of one story, clean on the outside and extremely clean on the inside we were told. They were very humble cottages, containing few of what we would call modern conveniences, but homes we were assured from which the spirit of contentment had not departed, and where much happiness is found.
Riding along one of these delightful avenues in a motor car, we saw at no great distance the Solway, which at once brought to mind Scott's famous lines in "Young Lochinvar," a tribute to the occupants of the old castle of Gordon, the Knights of Lochinvar. But his poem in which he tells us that "Love ebbs like
56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the Solway and flows like its tide," is not the only place in which Scott speaks of the ebbing and flowing of the Solway; for a similar reference is made in his novel Red Gauntlet. One of the last ~ Scotch rivers we visited was the Tweed, a reminder of Scott's reference in "Marmion," to "Tweed's fair river." All this by way of introduction, merely to emphasize the fact that lovely as Scotland is, it has an added beauty that none can measure, for its poets have immortalized it in such fashion that - it stands before us an enchanted land, with history and legend so commingled that its history is poetry and its poetry is history.
Wordsworth had said that there is no better time to visit the English Lake Districts than in September or October. It was during the last ten days of September that our party, consisting of Professor James L. Barker, his wife, Mrs. Kate Montgomery Barker, their two daughters Nancy and Margaret, and their little son "Jim," Mrs. Kate Carathers, Miss Vilate Elliott and myself, made a trip through Scotland in a motor car. This brought us in contact with the Autumn tints, as well as the rainfall, which came each day with such surprising regularity that the weather man, distressed by the drought in California and Utah, was seeking to even things up by according to Great Britain an overgenerous supply. In introducing the members of the party, it is with a belief that it will add materially to the interest of the articles, as our aim is to make them somewhat chatty and informal, and the introduction of one's traveling companions helps to bring about the desired results.
We had spent the night in Carlisle, an English city of considerable interest, and of considerable importance. We had just passed through the English Lake Districts, famous the world over for their beauty, and so we mused half wondering whether Scotland and her Lake Districts would be equally beautiful, when we were suddenly made aware that we had crossed the Scottish border. Five members of our party were of Scottish ancestry; the parents of one of them had been born in Scotland, the grandparents of another, as for the three younger members, it was for them, grandparents once removed. Five of the eight persons comprising the group had never visited Scotland before. It was a tense moment, "Sing something," this request came from Mrs. Barker, who intimated, thereby, that she had little faith in her own ability to sing under the present stress of emotion, or else that she did not indulge in singing under any circumstances. In any event, one tried "Annie Laurie," another "Auld Lang Syne," yet another the "Bonnie, Bonnie Banks of Loch Lomond," while a fourth, the venerable aunt, sang, ""Ye Banks and Braes of Bonnie Doon." Perhaps none of us succeeded in doing anything that might rightfully be called singing, but we did succeed in relieving
THE EDITOR ABROAD 57
our pent up emotions, and in proving once more that there is no dearth of songs in Scotch literature.
Finally, we arrived in Dumfries, a city in the south of Scotland, which Burns designated, the "Queen City of the South." We visited first the Mausoleum, where he and his wife are buried. They had struggled on in poverty with a family of nine children; only one of their descendants is now alive, a maiden lady, Jean Armour Burns Brown. It would seem after their struggle to rear their family that fate has been a bit unkind. The Mausoleum is one of many beautiful monuments found all over Scotland, as well as other parts of Great Britain, to the memory of the chief of our English song writers. From the
MAUSOLEUM OF BURNS
Mausoleum we passed to the little home where the poet died, a considerable part of which has been converted into a Burn's Museum, and on the window of which one may see his name scratched with a diamond ring. We now turned towards Ayr, the city of his birth. On our way we visited Ellisland, a farm which the poet leased from Mr. Metler in 1788. Here he composed "Tam O'Shanter," "Auld Lang Syne," "To Mary in Heaven," and a number of other favorites.. Passing from Ellisland, Mossgill was in our path, a place where Burns lived three years, and where he wrote a good many poems, most of them in the stable loft where he slept. "The
THE EDITOR ABROAD 59
ALLOWAY KIRK
A short distance ahead from the Burns cottage, we come to Alloway Kirk, now roofless, with the bells still hanging onto the gable. The poet's father is buried in this churchyard. The tombstone contains this tribute written by the son:
"O ye whose cheek the tear of pity stains, Draw near with pious reverence and attend; Here lies the loving husband's dear remains; The tender father and the generous friend; The pity heart that felt for human woe; The dauntless heart that felt no human pride; The friend to man, to vice alone a foe, For even his failings leaned to virtue's side."
But readers of Burns are more familiar with Alloway Kirk, as the place the witches were dancing, when Tam, passing by on his grey mare Meg, startled them from their frolic, from whence they pursued him to the keystone of the arch, departing hence with Grey Meg's tail. A very short distance from old Alloway Kirk is the Burn's monument, erected in 1820, at a cost of sixteen thousand dollars; its designer was Thomas Hamilton, of Edinburgh. Among the most interesting relics in the monument are a Bible presented to Highland Mary, at the time that she and Robert Burns became engaged, and the wedding ring of Jean Armour. The grounds about the monument are beautifully kept, the flowers were blooming in profusion in late September. We were told that they were
60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
much more beautiful in July and August; even so, they presented a perfect riot of color, at this time.
We next came to the "Brig of Doon." The bridge has a Norman arch and is very old. It deserves the poet's tribute so. Popular in song:
"Ye banks and braes O' bonny Doon, How can ye bloom sae fresh and fair? How can ye chant, ye little birds, And I sae weary fu'o' care? Thou'lt break my heart, thou warbling bird, That wantons through the flowering thorn, Thou mind'st me of departed joys, Departed—never to return."
We crossed the Brigs of Ayr, both the Old Brig and the New Brig. If any of our readers are interested in these bridges they might find delight in reading Burn's poem, "The Twa Brigs of Ayr."
Leaving Ayr we started in search of Montgomery castle. The feeling in our party was most keen about the castle; for Mrs. Barker's uncle, her father's eldest brother, was the rightful heir to the castle. We were very much interested in knowing to whom the castle belonged at the present time. We rode along through a beautiful avenue of trees, finally reaching the lodge which, following the rule, in such cases, was at the gate, Mrs. Barker went to the lodge and was received by the wife of the keeper, who told her that the gentleman now in possession of the castle is one by the name of Arthur, but she added, he is not home, at present.: Nevertheless, we were permitted to enter the grounds, which we found to be exceedingly beautiful, and quite in keeping with the popular notion of estates belonging to British aristocrats. But whether or not the estate has passed from its rightful owners, its name remains unchanged, and like Old Alloway Kirk, and the Brig of Doon, has been immortalized by Burns, for it was here that Highland Mary lived, who was the dairy maid of the castle, and it was across this lovely country that Burns went to visit her.
"Ye banks and braes and streams around The Castle O' Montgomery, Green be your woods and fair your flowers, Your waters never drumlie! There Simmer first unfolds her robes, And there the longest tarry; For there I took the last fareweel O' my sweet Highland Mary."
THE EDITOR ABROAD 61
THE "BRIG OF DOON"
We left the Castle of Montgomery and drove into Glasgow. We had gone a distance of 41 miles during the day. When we arrived in Glasgow we learned that Sir Harry Lauder was billed for the week, and that the people in Glasgow were filling their commodious theatre twice each evening to hear him. We had heard Harry Lauder several times in America, but to really know what Harry Lauder puts into his songs one must see him and hear him in his own Scotland. The Clyde river runs through Glasgow in much the same way that the Thames runs through London and the Seine runs through Paris. On the evening that it was our good fortune to listen to Mr. Lauder the scenery that furnished the setting for one of his songs reflected the purple heather and yellow gorse of Scotland; and Harry Lauder, in a fancy Highland costume, sang, "Roamin' in the Gloamin', on the bonnie banks O' Clyde." In this environment the song took on a meaning that it never could have taken on, in other surroundings; a fact made doubly clear as we listened to the reaction of the audience, for they greeted him with round on round of applause, at the first note from the orchestra. There is much heart power in Scotland; one can feel it in the words they use in their ordinary conversation, as well as in their highly emotional songs. Surely there is more heart power expressed when a child is referred to as "A wee laddie," than as a
62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
little boy. Our party was late into Glasgow that evening, consequently we were able to obtain only standing room. Very proudly one connected with the theatre told us that Sir Harry Lauder would realize $10,000 from the week's engagement, and that, he added, is more than he makes in America. We did not argue the case with our informant, we merely enjoyed his pride, for it appeared to us to be the honest pride of Robert Burns; and when after standing most of the evening the usher was able to find us seats, because some one had left, we were a trifle pleased, I think, that he said to us, "Come and sit down and rest a wee bit."
Yes, Scotland is bonnie, from the Clyde to the Forth, from the Solway to the Tweed, whether ye take the high road or the low road, it is all the same, from the banks and braes of bonnie Doon: to the bonnie, bonnie banks of Loch Lomond.
Eliza S. Neslen Mother of Clarence Neslen—Mayor of Salt Lake City
To Sister Eliza S. Neslen, who departed this life on Sunday Morning, December 21, 1924,
Friend, neighbor, sister, kind and well beloved:
For almost half a century we have lived so near that. We could call each other from our thresholds. And never once a word. Of discord or unpleasantness has passed between us, because we are alike in views and aims. We both know God the eternal Father and his holy Son. Our children, too, have grown to man and womanhood, in daily converse, and without a jar. Always in readiness with generous thought to help, not hinder, in their work or play. And now you pass beyond the portals here to mingle with the faithful, blessed ones who know the Lord. The ties of love which weld our hearts are strong, and with this parting they are strained and pained. But you are given rest from mortal woes. Rest, gentle heart—while, through the mist of tears, The rainbow promise unto us appears. You are not far removed, and we shall meet Ere long your smile of love and welcome sweet.
Lula Greene Richards:
Jewels
A Roman queen in ancient days, 'tis told, While gazing on some treasures finely wrought, In casques antique, her courtly friends had brought: Long ropes of pearls, -and rings, and combs of gold— That from the glittering sight she turned and stood With tender arms clasped 'round two lovely boys, "These are my jewels," she said, "my precious joys— No crown so bright, so rich as motherhood." Oh Vanity! Your jewelled caskets close, Nor tempt with shining brilliants to ensnare Fair maids, but rather may they wisely choose To nestle in their arms love's gifts, and there Stand firm as Rome's fair queen, Cornelia, stood For joyous life and glorious motherhood.
Annie Wells Cannon.
A Family of Slaves that Help You By Newman I. Butt
In former days only kings could afford slaves. Today even the commonest family makes use of many of them. Not human slaves, but inanimate workers that take much of the drudgery from life.
Perhaps you have never looked upon petroleum and its products as slaves, but they are as truly made to do the physical and other work of man as were the slaves of the ancients. The old kings had perhaps a dozen slaves carry him and attend to him on certain trips. Does it ever occur to you that when you jump into your car and take an hour's ride that you have had the equivalent-of ten slaves' services. A gallon of gasoline in a good automobile does about as much work as ten ordinary men do in a day.
Many farm homes now enjoy the services of this same faithful aid to mankind. When you switch on a light of a farm lighting-system run by gasoline, you are drawing on power which is the equivalent of one man's work. The ordinary gas engine, on the farm, which pumps the water, runs the milking machines, and - other labor saving devices might be likened to ten or to twenty laborers.
Gasoline is one of the great emancipators of man, It makes it possible for him to run errands in a fraction of the time it did before he learned to use it. With it he can don wings and outdistance birds from two to five or six times. The deer was regarded as the fleetest of living things in days gone by, but the gas engine has transferred this honor to man.
In the United States, in 1922, the consumption of gasoline was about six billion gallons, and if we consider each gallon as the equivalent of the labor of ten men we see that it is the same as if we had about two working men attending every man, woman, and child in our country.
But the automobile is doing more than merely speeding up our footsteps. Some people get no better schooling than the automobile furnishes. It is educating people on isolated farms as no other agent has done. It is allowing them to become better acquainted with their country and to enjoy entertainments and privileges which they have never known before. It is helping to build up good roads, so that farm products can more easily and cheaply be brought to the market. And it is perhaps giving a better course in mechanics and the care of machinery, than any other agent of today.
Thinking of the power locked within gasoline is likely to make one inquire into its history, and if we do this we come across a wonderful story. Gasoline, as most everyone knows,
SLAVES THAT HELP YOU: 65
comes from petroleum, which in turn comes from the mysterious bowels of the earth. Petroleum has been known for ages. The ancient Greeks burned it in their torches. They believe that one of their gods stole fire from heaven and brought it down to man in a hollow reed. For this crime the god was chained to the Caucasian mountains and from his torn liver streams of black petroleum have flowed ever since. In Asia Minor petroleum to this day is burning and flowing from certain fissures in the earth.
The Greeks, however, found too easy an explanation of the origin of petroleum. Scientists of today mostly agree that this wonderful substance has come from the partial decay ofother wonderful material—the living plants and animals. In the trees and vegetables about us mother nature is patiently collecting energy from the sun and storing it in her beautiful gardens. A great forest tree, in a year, stores up about as much energy as we use in burning five gallons of gasoline or about one seventh of that contained in the food a man eats in a year. Somehow or other a portion of this energy is preserved from the decay which befalls most living matter. For many past ages, mother nature has been carefully tucking this preserved vegetable matter into the beds of the earth where this precious energy has been sleeping until we discovered it and put it to work. Today we are greedily absorbing about twenty-three billion gallons of petroleum a year for various purposes.
Gasoline is only one of the two hundred or more petroleum products which man has made to serve him. The manufacturers can secure only 26 per cent of gasoline from crude petroleum, although they would be glad to secure a larger proportion of this highly prized labor-saver. Perhaps the most familiar of the other products is kerosene, or coal oil. Kerosene has been a faithful servant of man for a much longer time than gasoline but mostly in another capacity. It contains about the same amount of energy as gasoline, and to a limited extent is used to do the mechanical work of man through the agency of engines in the same way. The big task of kerosene, however, has been to furnish us with light and heat. We may consider that light is caused by a high degree of heat and the hotter the fire the more light it gives off. Now, man might be regarded as a heat generating machine. The food we eat that is made use of in the body is burned and the heat from it is thrown off by the body. On the average our bodies throw off about one fifth as much heat in an hour as an ordinary two ounce candle gives off in being completely burned. If we secured from human sources the heat for the cooking and lighting that is done with kerosene in an average country home, it would just about take the equivalent of the energy from one person for each purpose. Of course, if the family washing were also done by heat from kerosene the
66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
man-power would be much greater. About two billion gallons of kerosene are used in the United States each year and a considerable proportion of it is used by the housewife in her lamps and heating stoves.
In better lighting and more convenient heating the petroleum family has proved nearly as useful servants as they have in furnishing us with stronger and better muscles.
Many of the petroleum family such as kerosene, machine oil, and paraffin are greasy and nasty to handle when you have on your best clothes, but some of the others are regular grease and dirt chasers. Among the latter the best known ones are benzine, naptha and gasoline. Just as they are distilled off from the crude petroleum in making the separation of the different constituents, they are very dirty because they are such good grease dissolvers. The manufacturers have to treat them with the powerful chemical, sulphuric acid, to make them let go of the greases and then put them in a bath tub where they are washed with water and later with lye to get them clean, before they could be trusted in the hands of the housewife. They treat kerosene in much the same way to cleanse it also, but benzine, naptha and gasoline must be much cleaner than kerosene when they are to be used for taking grease from clothing. When using these cleaners we do not depend upon their energy or brute strength to accomplish our work but upon what we might term their tact. The grease is clinging with all its might to the little crevices of the cloth or other material upon which it had splashed, but the cleaning fluid persuades it to unwind its arms and form little droplets which may be removed without grabbing out for something else to cling to.
Benzine is also extensively used in making many common - articles about us, such as oil cloth and linoleum. It is not used in the product as we know it, but only in dissolving the paints and other sticky material which must go into the product. Without cheap solvents such as this, linoleum and oil cloth would be much more expensive than at present.
The old kings used to have servants prepare the path on which they were to walk. Today we use the petroleum products to smooth our pathways. By this it is not meant the streets we walk upon, although it finds some use in this way. I refer to the smoothest roadways in use today, the bearings of our wheels. For the loads they move the railroad car wheel and the wheel of the automobile move easier and smoother by dozens of times than man can move the same loads. All of the oils which you squirt into your machines to make them run easily and smoothly are part of our petroleum family. The bearings of the machines appear to be perfectly smooth to the naked eye, but when viewed under the microscope we find great hills and valleys which tend to cut the machine to pieces in a short time. But part of our
SLAVES THAT HELP YOU 67
family of petroleum products are the uncomplaining sort that can be walked on without squirming. Many place the oil about where it is needed and it meekly flattens itself out into the tiny valleys of the machinery bearings and allows the wheel, whether it be a tiny sewing machine wheel or a tremendous locomotive wheel, to slide over it on the smoothest roadway in the world. Without such a lubricant, as we call it, the burden placed upon man's shoulders would be multiplied many times, because many pieces of machinery would be impracticable.
In this discussion we have treated the products of petroleum somewhat in the order in which they are driven from the mother products, in the manufacturing process. All of the above products are liquids and distil or evaporate from the petroleum without great difficulty. The remaining few which we shall discuss are all solid or semi-solid in nature...
The first of these solids, we might liken to a minor lifeguard, although it is really only the plebeian vaseline which we find in ten cent stores and which milk maids use to soften the cows udder. It also is often used in place of other lubricants for greasing machinery. Of course, it is frequently mixed with other substances and sold under some high sounding name, but it is still the same humble servant. It is probably this part of petroleum which made it so highly prized by the ancients as a cure for camel or horse bruises and sores, It is still as fine a remedy for certain types of sores and cracked skin as we find.
Every housewife knows the petroleum product, paraffin, which is so useful in keeping the ravenous bacteria and fungus from stealing her jellies and jams. If she saw it just as it comes from the petroleum, she probably wouldn't recognize her old friend, however, because it is a black, foul-smelling waxy-appearing stuff with black oil all through it. It goes through several cleaning processes and finally comes out so white and pure looking that we do not hesitate to use it as chewing gum during fruit preserving time.
There is an interesting story which might be told of many of the rest of the petroleum family, but enough has been said to show the reader that it is indeed a wonderful family of what we might call servants of civilized man. But man is not taking the proper care of his petroleum servants. He is wantonly taking the material from its home in the depths of the earth and destroying much of it. Everywhere we find gasoline being wasted by improper adjustments of the automobile carburetor, and by useless waste in other ways. It is estimated that fully a third and perhaps half of all this great store of energy is being wasted. We are likely to pay dearly for this extravagance some day, because the natural stores are rapidly being exhausted; and when they are gone, this slave of mankind will be very strongly missed.
Like Crumbled Rose Petals By Ruth Moench Bell
Constance Winburn had on her rose-colored, batiste dressing gown. Edythe, her daughter, would have called it a negligee. Martha, her sister, who helped her into it, called it a wrapper. Harold, her grandson, who bought it for her, called it a robe. The dressing gown was soft and clinging and suited charmingly with Constance Winburn's fluffy, white hair and rose-leaf complexion. She knew that the white dimity apron was not just the right thing to go with a dressing gown. She had Martha tie it on her because the apron was trimmed with lace and went well with her cap and also because Edythe liked to find) her in light colors and very dainty. Edythe was coming that afternoon.
Constance took out her powder puff, after Martha had gone out. She went over her face very lightly. There must be no shine. Edythe did not like to see her face unpowdered. Constance wished that her hands were not so crippled with rheumatism. She was sure she could have made her nails more exquisite than Martha had done with the scissors. She would have liked to manicure her nails as she had seen them done in shops.
Constance opened the door of her room. "I think I'll lie down till Edythe comes," she called softly to Martha. "Edythe likes to find me rested.".
"All right, Constance,' Martha responded.
"You 'don't mind me going," Constance enquired, somewhat anxiously. "You don't mind my going, Martha, do you?"
"Not if she asks you," was on the point of Martha's tongue to say. Martha caught back the sharp, ugly thought, caught it back by the nape of the neck before it crossed the threshold of her lips. Instead, Martha sent forward very pleasantly, her angel child, as it were. "Not at all, Grandma dear, we shall miss you, of course. But we have so many interests. We can understand how lonely you must be with us."
The little speech fluttered out like a cherub in dotted swiss and blue bows. Made its little talk, then courtesied, as it were, and bowed itself off. All the while Martha held the ugly speech in leash, threatening it with her eye till the fair one had finished and made its exit.
"We are not going to wound my poor, dear sister,' Martha told the ugly one.
Martha went in and laid a soft, light-colored shawl over the failing form of her sister. Then she came back to have it out
LIKE CRUMBLED ROSE PETALS 69
with the ugly thought, which, no doubt, was making faces at that very minute behind the door.
"You know perfectly well, Ugly Thought," Martha cried sharply without so much as opening her lips. "You know perfectly well that Edythe (burr—she spat out the word, Edythe) that Edythe (spew) adores her mother. (The Ugly Thought stuck out its tongue at Martha.) Yes, she does! Adores her! (Liar! Liar! Chirruped the Ugly Thought.) Well, she does, just the same. Doesn't she send her flowers and—and—er—wires? Doesn't she write her the most heavenly scented letters all filled with fine words? (The Ugly Thought turned its back rudely. Its shoulders were shaking with mirth, unseemly. Martha stamped her foot at it.) Get back into the corner," she commanded. "She does, and you know she does. Hasn't she been promising for a year or more—promising. You know as well as I do—for you've seen 'Grandma'—(It was impossible to imitate the spicy flavor Martha managed to sprinkle on the term 'Grandma' whenever she used it toward her sister, probably an attempt to copy the sacharine sweetness that Edythe injected into the term.) 'Not for mine," Martha would vociferate, after such times. ''Not for mine. I'm glad I'm not a grandma. And I'll keep my identity as Martha to the end. If you please, to the end. And I'll call my sister Constance till the last hour. 'Grandma!' Humph, seems like when folks get ready to slip their own onto the siding and forget 'em they most generally give 'em some title like that that lumps them all into a mass. Now there is some individuality to the name Martha or Constance, but 'Grandma' covers a whole multitude of forlorn souls, side-tracked and forgotten."
The Ugly Thought chuckled to remind Martha that it was still there.
"Yes, I know you are there,"' Martha came back. "As I was saying you have seen Constance get ready twenty times to go to Edythe's." (The Ugly Thought chortled. It had won its way through. Nothing could have been funnier nor uglier than Martha's final snarling Edythe.) -
"I'll bet she doesn't come, bet you she doesn't come," chimed the Ugly Thought impudently.
"She will come, she will come," Martha coaxed the Favorite Thought into unconvincing! Insistence.
Even as she spoke, Edythe's smart touring car came up to the gate. There were gates at Martha's place, twenty miles out of town, "so absurd to be out so far, you know." Edythe languished.
"Glad you've come, Edythe," Martha sent the Ugly Thought back into the corner with an I-told-you-so shove. "Edythe is here now, do you see?"
"Yes, but she won't take her mother home with her," the Ugly Thought persisted hatefully.,
70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"She will, she will." Martha persisted.
"How is mother?' Edythe drawled languidly. "I brought her some violets and daffodils."
"What did I tell you?" croaked the Ugly One. "Why shouldn’t she bring violets and daffodils?' Martha rebuked. Just the same, Martha tiptoed over to Constance' door to make sure it. Was closed., Would she bring flowers for her mother to carry all the way back, when there will be so much to take—would be, I should say," the Ugly Thought taunted. "Oh, keep still." Edythe sank into a chair. "I suppose mother is taking a nap." "She is lying down waiting for you to come. She is all ready to go." "Oh, that is really too bad. You see we are expecting Harold's baby almost any minute. And of course the extra work and all—"  Martha knew without looking. The Ugly Thought was chuckling wickedly: "What did I tell you?" "We are losing so much rest as it is. And I suppose Grandma still has to be up in the night." "Lie a little,' the Ugly One suggested. "Insist that. She never has you up in the night any more." Martha listened attentively, alert for a sound from Constance' room. Her sister must not hear and be wounded again. Edythe's clear, cultivated, flute-like tones carried like a cathedral chime. Martha prayed fervently that they would not penetrate through the walls and into the gentle onc's consciousness. "And then there is the additional sewing," Edythe went on. "I really could not allow Grandma to go around as she does here. She must have soft, lace-trimmed negligees in delicate colors— and—and we've barely got through sewing for the new baby. I wouldn't want Harold's wife to see Grandma looking any way save her best. Nor Marjorie's beau for that matter. One must keep up the family prestige, you know." Martha took time to look the Ugly Thought squarely in the eye. She couldn't endure to have it jigging up and down before her triumphantly any longer. 'You've won," she admitted. "You've won. Now keep still and get out of the way, will you." "And then Grandma needs special meals. All that tiresome milk and cream menu and those absurd fruits and vegetables. My family go in so for meats and pastries." Edythe Barnes took off her gloves nervously. "She is talking her conscience to sleep," the Ugly Thought smirked. Martha gave it a look that should have subdued it. The Ugly One only grinned, 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE self in check. When she could trust herself to speak again Martha grew reminiscent. "Constance was always the delicate sister," she cried, "sort of romantic and fond of nice things. We thought of her as a bit finer than the rest of us. We all got in the way of deferring to her. She was the aristocrat of the family and the sweetest and most unselfish. We were willing to regulate the house according to Constance' needs." "I suppose she still hurries you all to bed at ten, and drags you out at seven," Edythe murmured, ' Martha's dignity and indignity came up. She almost invited the Ugly Thought out to pull faces or say disagreeable things. "I suppose I would have to come flying home from club to see that the evening meal was to her liking. Poor Auntie, how patient you have been." Martha tiptoed to her sister's room again. Surely Constance could not still be sleeping. Most certainly Martha would have retorted angrily, had not' her first thought been for the invalid sister. "She must not hear, she must not hear,' Martha kept repeating to herself. "Don't bother to waken grandma," Edythe drew on her gloves again. "I'll go out and get the flowers I brought for her. I left them in the car." Martha opened Constance' door very softly. Did she imagine it, she wondered, or was there a hasty settling down on the part of her sister, as if she had been fistening and now feigned sleep? Martha drew nearer and peered anxiously over Constance' shoulder. Was there a tear undried on Constance' cheek? Maybe not. It might have been there because of weak eyes, slipping out as the gentle one slept. "Drives," Martha murmured to herself. "Drives! All her gentle life she has won because she has never insisted, never demanded for herself and always was so thoughtful of others." "Edythe has come, dear," Martha spoke softly. Every one spoke softly somehow to Constance. "She brought you some flowers, violets and daffodils." "How lovely of her," Constance breathed, as if a flower had opened its petals. "A taste of Spring. In the Spring one does long so for fresh, cool flowers and—trips. And little adventures." The Ugly Thought jogged Martha's elbow. "Tell her at once," it urged. "Don't let her be going on expecting trips and adventures when she is to stay right here still. Maybe she didn't hear after all. And then again she is probably pretending so you won't suspect and feel that she has been hurt. But tell her anyhow, can't you?" 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing more pinched and wan. No doubt, partly because she was trying to suppress her pain. Constance turned away. "Do you notice I keep my room picked up better? I think it helps me to move about more and try to get hold of things. I think I may recover the use of my fingers if I keep up the attempt." A spasm of pain flitted over the invalid's face as she tried to illustrate the "picking up." Another observation brought a choking sensation into Martha's throat. "You and Tom needn't hurry to bed on my account, you know. I'm getting so I can sleep even if I don't get to bed till eleven or twelve. I've—I've tried it in my room. You and Tom can have all the company you want, Martha. I notice I actually sleep well in the morning—these last few days. And my afternoon nap is really more a habit than anything." "She heard, she heard!' Martha moaned to herself, as she rattled pans in the pantry. "Taking it out on the pans, huh!" the Ugly Thought confronted her. "Oh, shut up and get out of here," Martha Snapped. "It is cruel—cruel, I tell you. That poor, fragile little thing—longing for her daughter. Her baby, her only child—longing to be with her; and fairly yearning for the companionship of that girl's young people and their interests—the new baby, the granddaughter's sweetheart—the grandson's wife and all—" Martha broke off abruptly. Constance was trying to walk down the stairs unaided. "Here, wait a minute," Martha called. "I’ll help you dear. You'll be falling down those steps one of these times and smashing yourself to' pieces." "No, I’ve been practicing quite by myself. I have gone up and down several times without help, when you and Tom have been out." Martha caught her sister by the arm barely in time. A sudden twinge of pain nearly twisted her off the steps. Somehow there seemed no weight to the thin arm, no resistance. Constance had leaned so heavily before. It was not that she was carrying her weight now. There seemed no weight to carry, her. Body was soft and crumpling, sagging lightly, though no heaviness was there. "Just fairy weight and fairy substance," Martha fought back resentful tears. "She is crumbling up like—like a rose petal. Slipping away before my very eyes! And Edythe won't see!" "Now nothing special for me,' Constance insisted at table. "I know I can eat anything. It is perfectly absurd that meat would aggravate my rheumatism." "Well, you keep to the doctor's orders, anyhow," Martha advised. "Tom and I are not great meat eaters. Meat actually is 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Something had happened in the night, Martha felt sure of that. With a dread premonition she sat up. The Ugly Thought was on the foot-board of her bed, as it were. He had been away for some time. "Oh, you are there, are you?" Martha rapped out sharply. Somehow she could not be as sharp as she meant to be. The Ugly Thought, or was it the Ugly Thought? Sat humped over, his shoulders drooping. He did not stare at Martha. His shoulders were heaving. "You're—you're not crying are you?" Martha scolded. "I've been—away while you slept—over—over to—to Edythe's place, her—her daughter's place." Martha tried to get up. "Something happened in the night." "I knew it, I knew it," Martha cried. She tried again to rise. "A little baby came in the night. I was there. It came in pain, so much pain. The mama almost died. Such a young mother!" "The age Constance was—when Edythe was born," Martha remembered. "Yes, I joggled her elbow, Edythe's elbow," the Thought went on. "Yes, I joggled her elbow and—something—woke up inside her. IJt—was her memory or remembrance or—something tender and sad that had been sleeping inside her for a long time. It stirred then—and she remembered of a sudden that once—she had been born—" "Who, Edythe?", "Yes, Edythe. She remembered that she had been born once, just like that. It was for her that a little body lay on a bed of pain—a little, gentle body—in pain and danger! A lovely, little body that was made up only of love—and tenderness toward her! And then, she remembered again that somebody sat up of nights— and watched while she slept. Somebody got up many, many times in the nights in broken slumber and did things for her—" "For Edythe." "Yes, she remembered that. Edythe's memory told her, too, that somebody who loved her, regulated the whole household and her own life for Edythe's sake. Somebody gave her the best room, the daintiest bed and kept it sweet, made her the prettiest clothes and kept her lovely so she wouldn't be—offensive—and unattractive to—to others." "Oh, go away," Martha broke out impatiently. "I know, I know all that. I've thought it over a hundred times. Move out of my way. I want to know about Constance. I must know that she is all right. Sometime she will slip away in the night, elude me so that I can never find her again, just as I dreamed in the night." 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that would have their way. "She loves her," Martha cried, "she had forgotten, that is all." Edythe's voice penetrated into their hearts again, '"Harold's baby came in the night, Mother. MHarold's and Jennie's. How hard I must have been. Somehow I never thought of it as Jennie's baby until last night. Somehow I never thought of all you had done for me until last night." There was silence for a minute. Then Edythe must have raised her head and noticed the startling cut on her mother's cheek. "Oh, my dear, what have you done to hurt yourself so?" "I was trying to be independent—and not trouble folks—and so I—I." The tender apology was smothered in kisses. "You must let us love you and wait on you as we shall serve our new baby. There are to be two guests of honor at our home, now, Mother. Why, I can't begin to repay you for all the trouble and anxiety and sleepless nights and pain you have endured for me." "Oh, but it was joy every bit of it," Constance protested happily. Edythe gathered the crumpled rose-petals of motherhood into her arms again. "And this is going to be all joy and love, too, Mother. Just think of the inconvenience and burden I must have been to you, if you had not loved me." Constance' eyes lingered on her daughter's face caressingly. "I suppose that is what makes the difference," she sighed. “Do you think—your love can stand the strain?" ~ "Darling, all through the night and every foot of the way here I have prayed that I might be given the chance to try," Edythe cried. "I was in terror lest you might be gone—before I could make up to yuo a little for all I might 'have done." "If you will just help me to dress," Constance faltered. She felt she could not speak except about something practical. "My rose-colored dressing gown is there in the wardrobe." "Dearest, I don't care a snap about your rose-colored gown," Edythe protested. "I want you. And you are adorable in anything. Now we must hurry. Jennie is waiting to lay her treasure in your arms. Somehow we can't feel that she is ours till you —share her." x Ok k ok OK Martha sat down with her darning, when the two were gone. The Thought nestled into the wad of stockings and looked up at her. "Why, you are not ugly any more." Martha wondered. "You are not ugly at all!" -; "Ugly or Amiable!" the Thought smiled, actually smiled. "Ugly or Amiable, just the difference between a splash of tears or the flash of a smile! Only the difference between feeling and remembering." Albert Edward Winship IN COMMEMORATION OF THE 80TH ANNIVERSARY OF Dr. WINSHIP's BIRTH By Alfred Osmond, Head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah The scholar at his desk did not forget; That deserts were to blossom as the rose, Nor tangle his emotions in a net That lures to pleasant landings of repose. The river of delight, that gently flows Into the moorland marshes of desire, Is still unknown to him who freely chose To cross the deserts and to fight the fire That separate our lives from all we-most admire. "From sea to shining sea," he freely moves To serve the grateful teachers of the nation; His life still running in the kindly grooves That tempt the minds of men to seek salvation. The forces that combined in his creation Had clear provision of our daily needs, For during all the years of his migration He carries to our lives selective seeds That blossom into flowers of good and gracious deeds. And we shall not forget the plausive words That challenge the attention of our ears, For they are like the minstrelsy of birds That captivates the spirit that it cheers. We all forget our failures and our fears When Winship tells us to be strong and brave, It matters not if treason frowns and leers At those who see the rising tidal wave That is to cleanse the world intelligence will save. But man must die, and others must be born, And time, we know, will win the final race. A future day will come when we shall mourn, Because he shall have left our meeting place. But even then our love will fondly trace The circling courses of his life's career, And fancy will reveal the shining face That, like the sun, has radiated cheer And left with us a name that nations will revere. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah _Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS -- President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - General "Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs, Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - - - -: - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - -.: Atice LovtIseE REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - -: - - - Jeanette A. Have Assistant -Manager - - - - - -: Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XII FEBRUARY, 1925 No. 2 Dr. Albert Edward Winship This month marks the eightieth anniversary of the birth of Dr. Albert E. Winship, noted educator and editor of the Journal of Education. We are publishing in this issue of the Magazine a tribute in verse to him from Professor Alfred Osmond of the Brigham Young University. Last year Doctor Winship was the recipient of tributes from all parts of the United States. The Pennsylvania Teachers' Association presented him with a beautiful gold watch, and the National Education Association gave him an album with tributes from educators all over America. The educational fraternity has every reason to be grateful to Doctor Winship for what he has done in their behalf. Many communities are indebted to him for the whole-hearted manner in which he has championed their rights; yet we doubt if even Massachusetts, his native state, is more sincerely indebted to him than the state of Utah. Hei has never hesitated to speak boldly 'for Utah, and to extol the virtues of her community life and of her leaders. It was Doctor Winship, who said in one issue of the Journal of Education that Utah county alone had produced more artists and musicians than any other county of similar population in the United States. Doctor Winship has visited Utah many times. He first came through when the railroad made its advent into the valley, and was a member of the editorial party that crossed the continent in recognition of the fact. He has often related that the members EDITORIAL 81 of this noted party were the guests of President Brigham Young and that part of their entertainment consisted in a trip to American Fork canyon. Doctor Winship has been very generous to the Relief Society, both in spoken and written word. Not infrequently has he published paragraphs in relation to the work of the organization, and this year he has complimented the Magazine by copying three poems from local authors published in its columns, thus carrying the name of the Magazine everywhere that the Journal of Education is distributed. We congratulate Dr. Winship in having reached the ripe age of eighty, and wish him God speed as he journeys on through life, heartening and breathing a blessing on all with whom he comes in contact. Great Names February always suggests the names of the great to us, in America, in the main, because this month chances to mark 'the anniversary of the birth of both George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. Yet any suggestion of men in their class is apt to arouse at any time a discussion of great men. In this respect it is interesting to note the distribution of people of talent in various parts of the world. If one were to visit the city cemetery of Vienna, he would find monuments there to Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms, Supe, and the great waltz king, Strauss. It is safe to say that no other cemetery in Europe or America is the resting place of so many musicians of note. When we were in the city of Vienna we met a gentleman who bewailed the fact that the Germans had not produced a greater number of scientists than they had. The man said, "Oh, I do envy the English, for not only have they given the world an unusual number of poets of the first order. But their country is the birthplace of Spencer, Tyndale, and Charles Darwin. We would remind our readers that the German people have given the world not only the great musicians buried in the cemetery at Vienna, but also Richard Wagner and Johann Sebastian Bach, not to name a goodly number of musicians of minor talent. Next to Germany in musical fame, Italy holds the record. Such composers as Verdi, Leoncavalli, and Puccini mark Italy as the home of much opera of the very first order. In addition to these noted names, Italy has given us an unusual number of great opera singers. We need only call to mind such names as Caruso, Scotti, Tetrazini, and Galli-Curci to prove this fact. Italy has produced many painters. In the period of time known as the 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Italian Renaissance she produced more great painters than any other country in the world. Today she is probably surpassed only by France in the number of her painters and in the quality of their work. The French are a very versatile people, perhaps outclassing any other European nation today in the variety of their art output. An Englishman once said to me, "I know the moment I see the flowers on a woman's hat whether they have been made in France or England. If made in France the coloring is vastly superior to that produced in England." An engineer once remarked in my hearing that there is a finish about engineering instruments made in France that is peculiar to the French product. What we especially noticed when we were in Paris was the fact that that city has a number of very artistic bridges, and an unusual number of beautiful public buildings, perhaps a greater number than any other city on the continent. England is noted for writers, preachers, and statesmen, and in this particular she perhaps leads the world. This we believe to be true, despite the fact that France has certainly made a most enviable record in the number of authors of the first rank that she has produced., When we come to America, we find that she has led the world in great inventors. It was a common remark during the War that Europe must needs depend on America for someone who would be clever enough to invent a way to destroy submarine warfare, and in this particular America did not disappoint Europe, she did invent the way by which submarine warfare was overcome. Lincoln's Appeal for Loyalty to All Laws Let every American, every lover of liberty, every well-wisher to his posterity, swear by the blood of the Revolution never to violate in the least particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. As the patriots of seventy-six did to the support of the Declaration of Independence, so to the support of the Constitution and laws let every American pledge his life, his property, and his sacred honor. Let every man remember that to violate the laws is to trample on the blood of his father, and to tear the charter of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap; let it be taught in schools, in seminaries, and in colleges; let it be written in primers, spelling books, and almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in the legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice. Diet for the Nursing Mother By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education Two things are necessary for normal, satisfactory lives. The first is to be born with a good structure, that is, a body that is a good machine. The second is to take care of the human machine. The nursing mother has a dual responsibility in caring for her own body so that her resistance will not be unduly lowered or that tissues will not be sacrificed for the health of the child. A jaded, tired mother is a poor investment for her family. Her other responsibility is to supply food, right in quality and amount for the child for whose welfare she is directly responsible. When the child is subjected to a diet faulty in quality or amount injury is done to its tissues. A diet unsatisfactory in quality or quantity reacts unfavorably on the general wellbeing of both mother and child. In order that health of both may be maintained, necessary food principles must be contained in the normal diet. Most homemakers are acquainted with the food classification which includes such terms as carbohydrates which is the class name for sugars, cellulose and starches, fats which include oils, cream, butter and fats, and proteins which is the class name for meats, cheese, fish, and milk. In addition to these, however, there are other food elements, quite as important for health, upon which increased attention has been given during recent years. These elements are found largely in the skeletal parts of the body, help regulate body processes, and are called ash constituents. As most of the ash constituents are supplied in the average diet without special attention, consideration will be given only to the two most likely to be wanting in the average diet of the nursing mother. These very essential ash constituents are calcium and phosphorous and are very necessary for the growth of bones and teeth. According to recent studies in experimental feeding of animals the kind of foods determine the quality of the teeth, McCollum, Mendell and others who are carrying on this experimental work say they can produce good or bad teeth according to the varying composition of the foods used in their feeding tests. Diets low in calcium and phosphorous and not containing the vitamines necessary will produce small bones and teeth of poor quality. Another factor of considerable importance for physical wellbeing of the nursing mother and child is equanimity of mind. Lack of worry and avoidance of nervous tension are essential for good appetite, perfect digestion, and proper elimination of both mother and babe. It is physiologically wrong for either to try to digest 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE foods when the stomach is not ready. Worry, fatigue or fear inhibit the flow of digestive juices. In the case of the nursing mother the milk supply is made irregular by any of the above factors. Working beyond one's strength decreases the amount of milk secreted. The cross baby is a natural result when the mother has been too tired because of extra physical exertion or emotional excitement. Too great fatigue on the part of the mother may cause the death of the babe. Too much nervous excitement for the baby will cause indigestion. It should be understood also that when digestion is delayed by any of the causes listed above that something happens to the food in the stomach. The digestive tract is both warm and moist, making it an ideal place for the development of undesirable bacteria which act on the available food supply and cause various forms of discomfort if not serious illness. The following story will emphasize the importance of peace of mind in relation to good digestion. A woman went to her doctor's office to have further study made of her case. The doctor gave her the usual test meal of a roll and cup of weak tea. When he was handing them to her the roll dropped off the cup and fell on the office carpet. This did not serve as an appetizer but the woman ate the roll and drank the tea. Some time later the stomach pump was used and contents of her stomach were analyzed to determine how much digestion had taken place. The doctor was much surprised to find that no. Process of digestion whatever had been carried on. The aversion to the dirty roll had inhibited the flow of digestive juices. In addition to emphasis on mental serenity there are several other factors worthy of consideration in discussing possible increase of mothers' milk. From experiments carried on in a maternity hospital it was found that a mixture of fresh vegetables increased the milk supply. This, if it is true, contradicts some of the old beliefs that green foods caused colic. There is considerable evidence at the present time also that there is little danger in an average consumption of salads and leafy vegetables. Another food notion that has been more or less prevalent among nursing mothers is the theory that drinking beer increases milk supply. This belief is unfounded by scientific study. An average consumption of milk, however, is considered valuable for the nursing mother from the standpoint of ash vitamines and energy values. The question of necessary increase in the mother's food supply is dependent upon her own activity as well as upon the weight of the child. The food requirement of the baby depends upon several factors. The most usual method of figuring the baby's requirement is in terms of calories per pound. The tiny baby needs 45 calories per pound up to three months of age, while the 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE family physician, but merely to increase her understanding of general principles of nutrition. One of the big questions in feeding the nursing mother is to keep a healthy digestive tract during this period when, as the saying is, ''she must eat for two." She should avoid foods that she knows are difficult to digest, although it is not wise, to anticipate indigestion. Neither worry nor fear are conducive to a healthy intestinal tract, so special effort should be made to enjoy meal time. Careful mastication is also important so that the food will be divided into small particles and thus more quickly acted upon by the digestive juices. While an excess of bulky food is to be avoided, because it does not contribute sufficiently to the energy requirement, some roughage is necessary to stimulate the peristaltic movement of the intestines. Recent studies of constipation indicate that the softer cellulose of vegetables and fruits are more effective than the harsher brans of cereals. The argument in favor of the softer cellulose is that there is a greater tendency to ferment and the gas formed hastens the movement through the intestinal tract. Care should also be taken to eat fruit every day for the organic acid contained in it. _ Another factor of great importance in maintaining health of. The nursing mother is to insure the supply of the ash constituent. Perhaps the importance of this may be indicated when it is known that the calcium produced in the milk of a dairy cow in one year equals by weight half of the calcium in the animal's bones. The problem of the dairyman is to furnish food sufficiently high in calcium and phosphorous to meet the needs for milk production. The problem of the nursing mother is to eat foods high in these important ash constituents in order to protect her own bones and teeth. Foods relatively high in calcium and phosphorous are almonds, asparagus, grain, beans, buttermilk, brussels, spinach, cabbage, cauliflower, cheese, chocolate, celery, currants, dandelions, egg yolks, figs, lettuce, milk, molasses, oranges, strawberries, and turnip tops. The other ash constituent which needs attention in the average diet is iron, but if the diet is generous in the phosphorous and calcium content the iron demand will be largely met. One other factor that needs consideration in order that the mother's health may be further safeguarded is careful attention to the vitamine content of the foods. These are sometimes called the protective foods. In general their use in the diet prevents mal-nutritional diseases, promotes growth, stimulates appetite and helps to insure individual well-being. As the chief sources of vitamines are found in milk and milk products, green leaf and root vegetables, and fresh fruits, further discussion is unnecessary at this time. DIET FOR NURSING MOTHER 87 Summarizing the nutritional principles indicated above, without detailed study for a balanced dietary, it has been found useful to see to it that at least as much is spent for vegetables and fruit as is spent for meat and fish and that as much is spent for milk and milk products as for all meats and fish. If this proportionate expenditure is lived up to, the welfare of the nursing mother will be fairly well assured. Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart If you have a way of saving time, energy, or money, which has proved practicable, or, if you have found a way that has helped you in your home or family, write it up very briefly and send it to Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, at 931 Elm Avenue, Salt Lake City. One dollar will be given for every article published in the Magazine. Those who wish articles returned must enclose stamped, self-addressed envelope. There was no place in my clothes closet to install a rack in the usual way, so I took several nickel towel rods and attached them upside down on the under side of the shelf and ceiling. This makes a most convenient arrangement for clothes hangers. The rods are rigid and makes easy sliding and moving of hangers. When cooking a "boiled dinner,' several cheesecloth bags may be used, one for each kind of vegetable to be cooked. They keep the vegetable from being broken and are easily removed when the dinner is ready to serve. Put leftovers, such as vegetables, creamed fish or meats into popover bowls or small enamel cups. When needed they can easily be warmed by placing in a pan of hot water and one lid will cover them all. When the family is tired of fresh canned fruits, such as pears, peaches or apricoats, etc., or there are bits left over, they can be scalloped and delicious deserts made. Add sugar and spices desired, to fruit and cook a few minutes, add lemon juice and a little of the grated rind. Butter some bread crumbs. Place alternate layers of fruit and crumbs until baking pan is full, placing crumbs on top. Bake in moderate oven until well browned. Whipped cream or pudding sauce maybe served with it, if a little heavier desert is wanted. Sometimes children who do not like milk can be induced tc drink it by adding a little concentrated fruit syrup or cocoa. A speck of cinnamon, two or three drops of vanilla, a half teaspoon of sugar, added to a cup of milk may answer the purpose. One housewife who serves delicious grapefruit puts a table spoon of honey into each half of the fruit and let stand several hours in a cool place. 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Every housekeeper who prepares Boston baked beans knows it requires at least five to six hours in a good oven to cook them. Every time during the winter that you prepare them try having a hot sterilized jar at hand when they are done. Fill the jar with beans and seal immediately. Set the sealed jar in a pan of 'hot water, cover and let the water boil around the jar for one hour. Remove from water and cool. They are ready for any emergency without extra trouble, save heating and are good for next summer's picnic. A signal honor has come to one of Utah's young women. Miss Helen Wixcey was elected president of the Association of Foreign Students of the University of Paris, France, at a meeting of that society held recently. Miss Carol Wolfe, of Baltimore was elected vice-president, and Signor Cesar d'Angels, of Rome, secretary and treasurer. The membership of the association is made up of stu- ' dents from England, DenMISS HELEN WIXCEY mark, Sweden, Norway, Russia, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Greece, Turkey, Polland, Czechoslovakia, Rumania, Japan, India, Egypt, Brazil, Mexico, Canada, Australia, Italy and Austria. Miss Wixcey is the daughter of W. T. And Mary Bouton Wixcey of Salt Lake City. Her great grandparents and grandparents were among the early Utah pioneers. She is the grand niece of Mrs. Louie B. Felt. As a student of the University of Utah she majored in modern languages, and in the summers spent her time at the University of Mexico City, and in the Spanish families of the Mexican villages of Southern Colorado. Last year she taught French and Spanish at the University Training school. Having been awarded the John R. Park scholarship, she left for Europe last June with a party conducted by Prof. W. A. Kerr of the University of Utah. It is interesting to know that Miss Wixcey is giving volunteer service in teaching at a Settlement house in Paris. We may well be proud of this honor, which indicates such ability in leadership, that has come to one of Utah's young women. Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman TEMPLE PARK, CARDSTON, CANADA Alberia Stake. Saturday, July 26, after the monthly stake Priesthood meeting, the Alberta stake Relief Society, under the leadership of President Jane W. Bates, entertained the married people of the various wards of the stake in a literary contest and lawn social in the temple park, Cardston, Alberta. The contest consisted of review questions on the past season's work and was conducted by assistant stake class leader, Talitha Carlson. Much interest was manifested and some very creditable work was done. Three valuable books were awarded as prizes to the following: Lovina Low, Cardston Second ward; Ina Merrill, Hillspring ward; Hilda VanWrinkle, Cardston First ward. Music was furnished by the Merritime String Players from Kansas City, Missouri; Ralph Smalley, Harry Armiton, S. E. Burton, assisted by L. W. Bates. Refreshments followed the program and consisted of sandwiches, pickles, cheese, salads, Boston baked beans, ice cream, and several varieties of cake. Mrs. Mary E. Smith was chairman of the refreshment committee 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and was assisted in serving by the members of the board. Approximately five hundred people were served, only a part of whom are shown in the picture. Appropriate games were played, conducted by Mrs. Pearl Woolf and Mrs. Dora Jacobs, with everybody participating including the elderly people who entered wholeheartedly into the fun. Following up the work of the health conference of last March, the Alberta stake Relief Society board have distributed some 1,200 pamphlets, "The Fly Evil, its Life History," etc., to every home and have obtained 600 each of the following pamphlets for distribution: "Food for a Child 1 to 2 Years," "2 to 5: Years," and "5 to 7 Years," "Milk as a Whole Food," "Uses of Cream," ''Milk," "Buttermilk," "Cheese," "Skim milk," and "Cottage Cheese." This material was obtained from the government by merely paying the express charges. As a result of this effort the women are doing all in their power to promote better sanitation and health, by putting into practice the instructions they have received, and they are now planning a baby clinic for next year. For the Canadian temple the wards donated last year twenty-seven completed temple suits, and the stake gave $1,531 in Sunday egg money, $500 of which was donated between April and August, 1923. This money was expended for dainty furnishings and useful articles for the temple. Alberta stake, has paid $97. For a loan chest which is fully equipped with sheets, pillow cases, maternity bundles, etc. The wards have all received bundles and have appreciated them, especially in the outlying districts. In the regular work meetings some of the stake officers are assisting the wards by giving demonstrations in cooking, which are very much appreciated and are bringing results. Taylor Stake. The Taylor stake has been making special efforts to create interest in the Relief Society Magazine, and to increase the subscriptions to the Magazine. The stake Magazine agent is working with the local agent, trying: to get all Bee-Hive girls to subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine for their Mother's Christmas present, and where the mother has no daughters belonging to the Bee-Hive, they are asking the sons or husbands to subscribe for it as a Christmas gift to her. It is hoped that this will place the Magazine in nearly every Relief Society mother's home. The stake board gave a prize of a year's subscription to the Magazine to the ward having the nearest 100% officers' and teachers' present at the recent convention. The stake board is offering a prize (the bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine) to the ward getting the nearest 100% visits of district teachers and the using of the teachers' topics. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 91 Taylor stake Relief Society has donated to the Cardston temple seventeen complete suits for working purposes. Each society in the stake, during the year 1924, gathered Sunday. Eggs or their equivalent for a donation to the temple for maintenance purposes. One of the special activities of the year was for the mothers of the Relief Society having grown sons and daughters to attend dances and young people's entertainments. The results have been excellent. The stake activity committee in the spring asked all Relief Society members to plan flower gardens, lawns and trees, and to try to make their homes more beautiful. As a result, the town as well as the prairie homes have been made much more attractive and pleasant. A stake choir was organized in Taylor stake during the year. A list of the singers selected by the local presidents was sent te our stake president, and she sent a letter calling each to the position. The stake has a very efficient choir leader and organist. Each ward in the stake has been asked to have a layette on hand in each society. The stake board has some articles for layettes and are planning to assist each ward by donating some articles wherewith to begin their layettes. Lethbridge Stake. With a view of raising funds for health work, the Relief Society stake board of Lethbridge stake, conceived the idea of vetting out-a cook book. As a result an excellent book was produced containing two hundred fifty original and tested recipes, and it is being sold at 50c a copy. A member of the General Board who has used the book declares it is the best cook book she has ever had. The Relief Society in this stake is cooperating with the club women and the civic authorities in the interest of health with very satisfactory results. Lethbridge stake Relief Society contributed twenty-four complete suits to the Canadian temple, each group of ten members furnishing a suit. At a recent convention, two ward officers were present who had traveled 212 miles, one of them bringing with her a nursing babe. The interest and enthusiasm of these two workers is typical of the spirit of this new and flourishing stake. General Board visitors to Lethbridge stake were entertained at the Dominion Agricultural College, a courtesy which was greatly appreciated. Sf RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Yellowstone Stake. The Yellowstone stake Relief Society annual day was spent at the tabernacle grounds on the afternoon and evening of August 12. The stake presidency, high council, stake boards of the auxiliary associations, bishoprics and their partners, were guests of the Relief Society women of the stake. Community singing, program and games were features of the afternoon. At 6:30 there was a picnic luncheon with ice cream furnished by the stake board. During the luncheon toasts and music were the special features. Tables especially provided for the occasion were profusely decorated with garden flowers. A delightful part of the evening's entertainment was an original sketch produced by Relief Society members of the Wilford ward in appreciation of the stake officers. Ward Relief Society conferences were held in all wards of Yellowstone stake during the summer and fall season. Tintic Stake. On September 1 and 2, the Tintic stake made an excursion to the Salt Lake Temple, which resulted in the following records: work for 247, and $76.75 temple contribution. ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS Utah-Kolob Stakes On Sunday, November 23, 1924, the Utah stake was divided. The northern portion, consisting of Bonneville, Grand View, Lake View, Manavu, Pioneer, Pleasant View, Provo, (6 wards) Sharon, Timpanogos, and Vineyard wards, will retain the name Utah stake, and the southern portion, composed of Mapleton, Springville (4 wards), Thistle and Soldier Summit wards, will be known as Kolob stake. Mrs. Electa Dixon and her officers were retained in Utah stake and the new officers for Kolob stake are: president, Mrs. Hannah B. Mendenhall; counselors, Mrs. Eva M. Crandall and Mrs. Hazel M. Robertson; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Irene B. Cook. Nebo-Palmyra Stakes Nebo stake was divided on Sunday, November 23, into Nebo and Palmyra stakes. Nebo stake will consist of Benjamin, Payson (3 wards), Spring Lake and Genola wards, and Palmyra will be made up of Lake Shore, Leland, Palmyra, Salem and the four Spanish Fork wards. Mrs. Hepsy Lewis will continue as president of Nebo stake, and the Relief Society officers for Palmyra stake were appointed as follows: president, Mrs. Delila Hughes; counselors, Mrs. Jane Jones and Hattie Wilcox; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lillie M. Rowe. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 93 North Weber Stake Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott was recently released as president of the Relief Society of North Weber stake and on Sunday, November 8, the stake was reorganized.; Mrs. Marriott had served as president for fifteen years, and she insisted that it was time for some one else to be given the opportunity to take up the work. Mrs. Marriott is a woman of marked ability and rare vision, and being blessed in addition with strength, energy and ambition, she has succeeded in making the North Weber stake Relief Society one of the most active and progressive groups in the whole Church. No task has seemed too great for Mrs. Marriott and the women of her stake. In the councils of the General Board and stake presidents, when new problems have had to be met and oid policies changed and modified to meet growing conditions and needs, this courageous and loyal worker had been ready always to undertake for herself and the women of her stake any extra work or additional task necessary to cover the emergency and to help out the organization as a whole. When, during the war, it was decided that the abolishment of agents' fees and a larger subscription list for the Relief Society Magazine might obviate the necessity of raising the price of the periodical, Mrs. Marriott suggested that stake presidents act personally as agents with the view of enlarging the circulation. This action was finally decided upon, and a few weeks later Mrs. Marriott sent in subscriptions from her stake amounting to 100% of the membership. When Mrs. Marriott became president fifteen years ago, there was no general uniform course of study in the Relief Society. Each stake and in many instances each ward, arranged for its own educational work. Mrs. Marriott almost immediately prepared a uniform course of study for her wards in the form of printed guide lessons, and visited each ward personally to help introduce the work and standardize class instruction.  Mrs. Julia E. Parry was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Marriott, and her long experience in Relief Society work ably fits her for her position. Mrs. Minnie C. Stratford and Mrs. Sarah A. S. Larkin were chosen as counselors, and Mrs. Mary A. Terry was retained as secretary-treasurer. With the exception of one resignation and two new members the board remains as it was. Before. On Saturday, December 20, a testimonial was given by the North Weber stake Relief Society in honor of Mrs. Marriott. Expressions of: appreciation for her work and for the work of her board were the order of the occasion, and there was a presentation of appropriate gifts. Mrs. Marriott was presented with a beautiful ring, Mrs. Julia E. Parry; was given a crystal bowl filled with roses, Mrs. Middleton, a book of poems, and Mrs. 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mary A. Terry, two crystal candle sticks. Mrs. Mary A. Geddes, the oldest member of the board, was presented with a book of poems, and the other board members received bouquets. Juab Stake On August 16, 1924, the Juab stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Unity Chappell, president of the Relief Society, and her board were honorably released, with the love and blessings of the priesthood and every Relief Society woman in the stake. Mrs. Chappell has served faithfully as stake president for eighteen years, and for six years previous to this was a stake board member. During all this time she has given freely of her time and energy in the Relief Society cause, and has done everything within her power to improve and strengthen the work. Juab stake and the General Board are both indebted to her for her long service and for her devotion to the organization and sincere appreciation is forthcoming from the stake and General Board. In honor of Mrs. Chappell and her board the members of the entire Juab stake arranged a program and testimonial at the Armory Hall, at Nephi, October 16. Games arranged by the wards were participated in by the large number present, and everybody contributed to the entertainment. The grand march was led by Mrs. Unity Chappell and Mrs. Melvina Broadhead. Dainty refreshments were served to two hundred and seventy-five members. The new officers appointed are: president, Mrs. Maude Forrest; counselors, Mrs. Itha Parkes and Mrs. Ellen Cole; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Florence H. Chase; chorister, Mrs. Alice Belliston; organist, Mrs. Anna Allred; board members, Mrs. Matilda B. Whitmore, and Mrs. Lillian Cowan. Carbon Stake On account of ill health, Mrs. Isabella Bryner was honorably released as president of the Relief Society of Carbon stake, on September 28, 1924. Mrs. Bryner has worked untiringly in the Relief Society cause and she and her co-workers have endeared themselves to all those with whom and for whom they have served. Their work has been greatly appreciated and it is hoped they will still continue to be active members of the organization. On November 11, the newly appointed stake board gave a testimonial in honor of the retiring officers which consisted of a program, games, and refreshments. A silver thimble was given to each of the guests of honor. The new officers appointed for the stake are: president, Mrs. Estella C. Dalton; counselors, Mrs. Louise Bunnell and Mrs. Sarah Gibbs; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Margaret Marcussen; assistant secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Drucilla Jones Powell. Guide Lessons for April LESSON I (First Week in April) Theology and Testimony PART II—ENOCH A. Some LEADING Events IN His LIFE. 1. His Calling to the Ministry—Enoch had held the Priesthood. Having received it from Adam, and then at the age of sixty-five he received a special call to the ministry and was blessed by the father of the race. At about this time, too, his son Methuselah was leading the race in longevity. A' The call of Enoch, as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 6:1-36, consisted in a series of marvelous events: (a) The Spirit of God descended out of heaven and remained on Enoch; (b) The Lord made a prophet and missionary out of Enoch; (c) God declares to Enoch the sinful condition of the. People and the penalties in store for the unrepentant; (d) Enoch pleads his unpopularity among the people and his deficiency as a speaker; (e) God gives Enoch a promise of protection, and of eloquence, and endows him with the power to work miracles; (f) The Lord makes Enoch a seer. 2. Enoch's First Missionary Work at Home.—(a) He fearlessly denounces the wickedness of the people. (b) His sermons carried wonderment, fear, and inquiry into the hearts of the populace. (c) His invincible testimony caused the people to flee or fall before him. (d) He declared Adam's belief in Christ, his baptism, and his clear knowledge of the atonement. (e) He prophesies war and degradation in the absence of repentance. (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:7, 8.) 3. Enoch's 'Mission Abroad.—(a) The Lord called him to preach to all except the conspirators with Cain. (b) He declares that baptism must be done in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:11, 12.) 4. Enoch's Power in Working Miracles—(a) The earth trembled; mountains fled; rivers were turned out of their courses, at his command, for the protection and progress of the converts, and their enemies fled to an island. (Moses 13:15.) 4. The Building of Zion under Enoch's Leadership. (Moses 96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 7.)—(a) He established faith to the point of obedience. (b) He brought about union. (c) He kept out unrighteous living. (d) He provided industry for all under the plan' of stewardships. (e) He kept out class distinction. (f) He kept in constant communion with the Lord. (g) He unceasingly provided the people with the word of the Lord, reminding them of the past, encouraging them as to the present, and revealing to them the future. 4. The Completion and Translation of the City of Enoch.— Enoch, the "seventh from Adam," built up a commonwealth with a perfectness akin to that of the completion of the creation. The City of Enoch, the dimensions of which are not known to us, became the abode of the Lord. Its people had been in the world but not of the world. In the midst of wickedness they were good. They were Zion, the "pure in heart." Their city became Zion, the place where God dwells. The conditions of this unparalleled community were beyond the earth, and they were more than terrestrial. Under the law of the eternal fitness of things the city was given a position above the earth. When the Lord said of Zion, "Behold, mine abode forever," did he not indicate that the city built by men, under the direction of the Lord, was accepted as a part of his celestial kingdom? The kingdom where dwell none but those who can enjoy the personal presence of God. The community conditions that make a Zion fit for the personal presence of the Lord are set forth in the following: "And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness, and there was no poor among them." The Zion qualities of a community then, are (1) oneness of heart; (2) oneness of mind, or belief; (3) righteousness or right living; (4) community welfare or the absence of want... These four points of consideration seem to have been the basis of the Divine judgment by which the City of Enoch was named Zion. 5. After the City was Translated. Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:23-69.—(a) He sees the extent of Satan's power on the earth and the chaining of men's minds. (b) He sees angels from heaven working to unchain men's minds. (c) He sees a side of God's nature, unthought of before. The Lord wept in his presence because of the sin-brought suffering of his wayward children. (d) He witnesses in vision the saving of Noah and his family and the replenishing of the earth. (e) He beholds the birth, life-labors, suffering, death, and triumphant resurrection of the Christ, and with him the resurrection of the Saints who had slept. (f) He hears the earth mourn because of its pollution by men. Who can say with certainty that the earth is not intelligent LESSONS FOR APRIL 97 gent? At all events, it is obedient to law. (g) He obtains a promise from the Lord of this day, this day of wide-spread knowledge (Moses 7:62) and a description of the meeting of the Zion above with the Zion beneath. (h) He sees the millennium and the apostacy that follows it, the final victory of the Savior and the everlasting banishment of Satan from the earth. (i) He sees done with the whole earth what he and his people have done with a part of it, made a place of which God could say, "Mine abode forever." B. THE Doctrines PREACHED BY ENOCH. 1. Those of record: free agency, faith, repentance, baptism (by water and the Spirit), resurrection, and eternal judgment. 2. Those in evidence, but not of direct recorded consecration, stewardship responsibility. C. BIOGRAPHICAL SUMMARY. 1. Enoch was the "seventh from Adam." 2. He was ordained a High Priest at the age of twenty-five by Adam. — 3. He was called to the ministry at the age of sixty-five. 4. He preached the gospel 365 years. 5. He proved the possibility of man's living the celestial law on a terrestrial planet. 6. He was more than three centuries in building the Christ ideal community. 7. He had an intense interest in the welfare of the people of the earth after his translation. 8. He was a prophet, seer, and revelator, with the seership seemingly predominating. 9. He had access to God in his highest place—"Thou hast given me a right to thy throne." 10. Enoch finished the Adamic Dispensation. D. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS,  1. What principle of the gospel did Enoch preach and practice that had never been preached and practiced before him? 2. What does the success of Enoch the seer, as an ideal community builder, say concerning the advancement of the race with God or without God? 3. Wherein is the life of Enoch most valuable to you? (A question for the whole class. ):; 4. Discuss this explanation of equality in the order of Enoch: "Does every man receive an exact equality? No. Why not? Because some men have more ability for managing a stewardship than other men. Some men, perhaps all their lifetimes, have been accustomed to carry on great establishments and know how tv 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE conduct great establishments. Is it to be supposed that such a man would be limited to the same amount of stewardship as the man who has fifty acres of land? It may require twenty or a hundred times as much stewardship to be placed in the hands of such a man, than what is required of other stewards who manage farming only. Does not that make them unequal? No. They are all stewards. The property belongs to the Lord." (Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses, vol. 16. Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 611.) 5. Wherein were the builders of the City of Enoch ideally idealistic? 6. Discuss: The City of Enoch as the Eternal City, the City of Three Graces! LESSON II (Second Week in April) Work and Business TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR APRIL HOME AND TOWN "CLEAN UP" 1. Cultivate flowers outside the house, and they will cultivate beauty and art within.. 2. There is no other form of spring cleanup that pays such a large dividend as a garden, either vegetable or flower garden. (a) A marvel of charm and color can be produced from a 25c package of mixed flower seeds. 3. If you have an unsightly place at the side of the house, or garage, or chicken coop—a bank of Four O'Clocks (10c worth of seed) will transform it into a thing of beauty. 4, If you cannot afford the shrubs you would like—Caster Beans make gorgeous tropical plants in one year. Have you plenty of shade in your back yard? If not, plant one new tree and one new vine each year and you will be surprised at the result. 6. Never burn fallen leaves; bury them to enrich the soil. 7. Women and children can paint porch floors better than men. Try it. 8. If the steps or fences are in need of repairs have the children mend them; they may not do it as well as a grown up, but it will be improved, and the training is invaluable to the children. LESSONS FOR APRIL 99 9. Decaying vegetables in the cellar weave shrouds for the upper chambers. (a) Whitewashing basement walls is a means of disinfecting. 7 (b) A metal dish of unslacked lime is good to take moisture. 10. Can you do anything to eliminate or diminish the weeds in your neighborhood? Polen of weeds is the cause of hay fever. 11. Progressive citizens keep their houses and town clean, pleasant and attractive. LESSON III (Third Week in April) Literature JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY The recently reported death of Gene Stratton Porter, is another reminder of the fact that out of Indiana has come a very unusual number of prominent writers, in during less than a century of time. Of this group, comprising such eminent names as Lew Wallace, Booth Tarkington and James Whitcomb Riley, Riley holds a popular place, and in some respects a very unique place. James Whitcomb Riley was born in Greenfield, Indiana, October 7, 1853. His father was a well-to-do lawyer. Doubtless the father had an ambition that the son, too, should become: a lawyer, but the son did not care for law. As a young 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE man he worked as a signpainter, wishing all the time, very much, that he might get before the public as an entertainer; a wish that was gratified in very full measure as time went on. As a boy he had taken part in theatricals in his own home town, where his work met with much approval. Riley had written verses, but did not have the courage to admit his authorship, consequently when he published them he did it under the nom de plume, Benjamin F. Johnson, and when he read them from the platform he usually said he had cut them from a newspaper, that a friend had put them into his hand, with the request that he include them in the evening's entertainment. He had read for audiences when he received only $4, and for others when the house receipts would not pay expenses. That was in the beginning; when Mr. Riley discontinued his platform work, he shut the door in the face of a public clamoring for more. It was our good fortune to hear Mr. Riley read before the students of the University of Michigan, in Ann Arbor. We have heard a goodly number of professional readers read Riley's poems since that time, but we have never heard any one read them in a way that at all equalled his own rendition. In this respect he was like Charles Dickens. The British public was carried away with enthusiasm over the way in which Dickens read his own productions. That this admiration of Riley's poems was general is seen from the following incident: The great French actor Coquelin, after hearing Riley read at the Savage Club in London, turned to Henry Irving, the great English actor and said: "Henry, you and I have been studying all these years how to act, but here is a young man out of the west, who knows all we know by nature." 'The biographer telling the story, admits that the remark is an exaggeration, but in doing so, says, "Yet it is proof, if proof were necessary, that the poet was extraordinarily gifted as an actor. Mr. Booth Tarkington's description of Riley is a classic,. So we include it at this point: There he stood, alone upon the stage, a blonde, shortish, whimsical man in evening clothes —a figure with 'a whole lot of style', and a whole lot of its own style too! He offered a deferential prefatory sentence or so; then suddenly, face and figure attired, seemed to merge completely into those of a person altogether different from the poet, and not Mr. Riley, but a Hoosier farm hand, perhaps, or a thin little girl stood before you." The night we heard him, he read in a very exceptional fashion, "1 Want to Hear the Old Band Play," "Out to Old Aunt Mary's" and, "When the Frost is on the Punkin." These LESSONS FOR APRIL 101 were great favorites of his and were included in very many of his public readings.. As we are on this theme, we may just as well discuss these three poems now as later on. Y Greenfield was the poet's birth place. In 1894 Riley's father had died, and the poet had purchased and restored the homestead at Greenfield, which had been lost by the father soon after the Civil War, through speculation. Everywhere Riley was being sought, and Greenfield wished to contribute its mite to the wide wave of approval; so the poet was given a public reception. It seems that the entire town acted on the reception committee and met him at the station. The entertainment was in the old Masonic Hall. In the midst of Riley's address he said, "I have in mind a poem which found its fundamental principles in this town. Many of you will recall our old band—the old Saxhorn Band. I want you to fancy the speaker is an old resident of Greenfield, who has returned." Then with an artless look at the orchestra, where sat the few remaining members of the old organization he recited the poem with the well-known refrain, "I want to hear the old band play." In this poem, we discover one of the unique features of Riley's work, for he mixes the humorous and the pathetic in such fashion that one is inclined to laugh through his tears, and cry through his laugh. This is done without the slightest offense; in fact there is such harmonious blending of the two that each without the other is lost, or, to put it in other words, the humor deepens the pathos, and the pathos heightens the humor. In Riley's own rendition this effect was preserved in what seemed to us nothing less than a marvelous fashion. In one of Riley's public addresses he said, "There is reminiscent for us all, an old town and country sketch which attempts to picture two barefoot boys, who had an old aunt in the country, whom they used to visit; two brothers one in his declining years, writing the other, who had moved to the far west—wrote:" Wasn't it pleasant, O brother mine, In those old days of the lost sunshine Of youth—when the Saturday chores were through. And we went visiting, "me and you." And the Sunday wood in the kitchen too, Out to Old Aunt Mary's?  "Me and you"—and the morning fair, With dewdrops twinkling everywhere; The scent of the cherry-blossom blown After us, in the roadway lone, 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Our capering shadows onward thrown— Out to Old Aunt Mary's! It all comes back so clear today! Though I am as bald as you are gray,— Out by the barn-lot and down the lane We patter along in the dust again, As light as the tips of the drops of the rain, Out to Old Aunt Mary's. The few last houses of the town; Then on, up the high creek-bluffs and down; Past the squat toll-gate, with its well-sweep pole; The bridge, and "the old 'baptizin'-hole,' " Out to Old Aunt Mary's. Or, strayed by the glint of the redbird's wings, Or the glitter of song that the bluebird sings, All hushed we feign to strike strange trails, As "big braves" do in Indian tales, Till again our real quest lags and fails— Out to Old Aunt Mary's.— And the woodland echoes with yells of mirth That make old war-whoops of minor worth!— Where such heroes of war as we?— With bows and zrrows of fantasy, Chasing each other from tree to tree Out to Old Aunt Mary's! And then in the dust of the road again; And the teams we met and the countrymen; And the long highway, with sunshine spread As thick as butter on country bread, Our cares behind, and our hearts ahead Out to Old Aunt Mary's.— For only, now, at the road's next bend To the right we could make out the gable-end Of the fine old Huston homestead—not Half a mile from the sacred spot Where dwelt our Saint in her simple cot— Out to Old Aunt Mary's. Why I see her now in the open door. Where the little gourds grew up the sides and o'er The clapboard roof!—And her face—ah, me! Wasn't it good for a boy to see— And wasn't it good for a boy to be Out to Old Aunt Mary's! * * * For, O my brother so far away, This is to tell you—she waits today To welcome us:—Aunt Mary fell Asleep this morning, whispering, "Tell The boys to come" * * * And all is well Out to Old Aunt Mary's. LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 We shall never forget how Riley smacked his lips as he read this poem. One forgot he was a man, and really thought the jam could be seen clinging to his lips as he ate out to Aunt Mary's. When the Frost is on the Punkin" is one of the best Thanksgiving poems that we have. Professor Claire W.. Reid has put this poem to music giving it added charm. It is a most delightful piece of chorus work. Professor Reid has set a group of Riley's poems to music, a fact over which Latter-day Saints have cause to delight. If any of you find it convenient, include one of the Riley poems that Professor Reid has set to music, as a song on your Riley afternoon, it will greatly enrich the program. Two other poems should be mentioned in any discussion of Riley's platform poems, they are "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," and "Good-by, Jim."' Mr. Riley placed them on the program of many of his entertainments and they were always great favorites. Of his rendition of "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," one of his hearers said, that the "Golden Girl," a bright vision of us all, seemed to step out on the stage and lean over his shoulder and kiss him on the sly for the sentiment. Mr. Nat Goodwin said: "I used to recite "Good-bye, Jim,' until I heard Riley do it, then I asked the Lord to forgive me, and never tried it again." Mr. Booth Tarkington said, "Even as the poet sat and talked quietly with a friend these extraordinary impersonations came playing upon the surface of his face and voice; his talk was like quicksilver. He was the only frontrank poet in whom humor was predominent. In Riley's sixty-second year, 1911, after having written many volumes of poetry, recited by the school children all over the land, just as Longfellow's were recited before his time, Mr. Riley was the victim of a paralytic stroke. He really thought that it was the end. Four years later, in his sixty-sixth year he was feeling so much like a boy that it seemed as if he might yet live a goodly number of years. He went as usual to Miami, Florida, for the winter, returning in May to Indianapolis, where he continued his daily rides about the city, well and happy with apparently a number of days of life before him. "Saturday night, July 22, 1916, at ten minutes of eleven, the poet, having retired, asked for a glass of water and turning on his side fell asleep; as gentle as twilight, came the summons from the Silent Land," says Mr. Marcus Dickey. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Mame some books wirtten by Lew Wallace; also some books written by Booth Tarkington. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 2. Go over the poem. "I Want to Hear the Old Band Play," and point out where pathos and humor are blended to good effect. 3. Riley has often been called the poet of the "common people," which means that he selects subjects that come within the range of common experience. Does this poem "Out to Old Aunt Mary's" support the well known criticism that he is the poet of the masses? 4. In the last stanza of "Out to Old Aunt Mary's," what promise, dear to all Christians, is portrayed in delicate language? Read the stanza over. 5. Prove from the lines, "The frost is on the punkin," that Riley loved nature. 6. Are his descriptions picturesque, that is, does he use language as a medium to paint pictures that we can see? 7. If time will permit, have someone read "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," and "Good-by Jim." There will be a second lesson on Riley. LESSON IV (Fourth Week in April) Social Service HomE. Less CHILDREN The orphan, the abandoned child, and the neglected one, have for many years received some kind of public care. Even in early Greece and Rome, orphans—particularly the children of men who had died for their country—were cherished and educated, to the age of eighteen, by patriotic citizens. The motive was not a humanitarian one, but a measure to conserve a population depleted by war. In the early Christian era, orphan children were boarded out, the church paying worthy widows for their care. Institutions for dependent children were not established until about the close of the second century, and they flourished until the nineteenth century. One common type of institution was the English workhouse; which sheltered all types of helpless and dependent persons —the sick, the aged, the widows and the homeless children. Dickens' story of Oliver Twist's experiences, in the sordid English workhouse, is an interesting portrayal of conditions existing in institutions at that period. Oliver became the charge of the parish at birth, for his unknown mother died after taking one fond LESSONS FOR APRIL — 105 look at her new born son. She was a stranger in the village, found lying in the street, and was taken to the workhouse where, next day, her child was born, Oliver fared as did his other unfortunate contemporaries, who were fed "on the smallest possible portion of the weakest possible food." Until he was nine he was "farmed" out at a branch workhouse, and at the end of that period he was considered ready for apprenticeship. He was taken by the town undertaker, and young Oliver's unhappy experiences among the gloomy coffins in the dismal cellar where he slept, gave him courage to run away. His later career among the pickpockets is a fascinating story familiar to most of us. Students of child welfare find much of interest in Dickens' narrative, not only because it reveals the abuses then prevalent in these institutions, but also to measure the advances that have been made during the subsequent century in the state's care of its homeless children. Many changes in attitude have taken place since the day of Oliver Twist, when orphans were only half-fed, half-clothed, unschooled, and in constant fear of a tyrannical taskmaker, and who were considered legitimate subjects for industrial exploitation by the community. In contrast with this picture, it is enlightening to turn to the White House report (see Normal Life, page 51). Which is a set of resolutions adopted by child-welfare authorities in joint conference at the White House in 1909. The principles of child care endorsed by the conference express the present day sentiments of educators, physicians, and social workers, although it is true that a full attainment of these standards has not yet been accomplished. It may be well at this point to consider briefly the kinds of circumstances that bring children under public supervision. The most obvious cause is the death of both parents. Half-orphans, too, often become charges. A widow without adequate income sometimes finds it her only alternative to place her children in a home and to enter industry. A widower frequently finds it equally difficult to have his children properly cared for in the home, and his children find their way to institutions of some kind. The desertion of one of the parents sometimes brings the children under state care. In cases of wanton neglect the state assumes the obligation to protect the child by removing it from the home. Occasionally, a child born out of wedlock is left to public care, and some provision must be made for it. In France and Italy during the eighteenth century, the number of foundlings became enormous. The institutions for foundlings were provided by law, with revolving cribs or "tours" fixed in the walls or doors, so that when the tour was turned outward the mother could place her child in it and retire unseen. The matron was
106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
warned with a bell that an infant was being left, and the crib would then be turned toward the interior and the child be removed. Even until very recent years foundling asylums in the European centers and in some of our own larger cities, have accepted abandoned infants. The empty cradle on the steps, waiting to accept the abandoned child, is a picture that is rapidly disappearing.
The abandonment of children born out of wedlock or under other unfortunate conditions, is now heartily discouraged. It is considered better for both the mother and child to remain together.
No matter what circumstances make a child homeless, the best first step in making a plan for the child's care is to attempt to keep it in its home environment. If there are no parents, the relatives—grandparents, married brothers or sisters, or aunts or uncles—should assume the responsibility of rearing the homeless children. Even though such a responsibility may seem to be somewhat of a burden, it is the duty first of the family to assume the care of its dependent members. There is no question that a child's life is more natural, richer in experience, and infinitely happier among affectionate kinsmen than in an institution, which in its very character is more formal and impersonal.
If there is a surviving parent, there is little reason for justifying the placement of children in institutions. Certainly lack of income on the part of a widow cannot be considered a sufficient reason. A widow's pension, provided by the state, some form of insurance, or an allowance by some church or welfare agency, should be secured in order to keep the home intact.
If, however, it is found that a child cannot be reared by the family, the provision for it should be made by a trained worker who understands how to give proper supervision in planning for its care. It is often desirable to place children in private homes, paying the family something for the service. These boarding homes can give a more natural environment to the child than is possible in an institution. These homes are especially desirable if the foster family is motivated by unselfish purposes. There is a danger, however, if payment is made to the family for the care of the children, that some children will become charges of people who enter such an agreement for purely mercenary reasons, and it is then possible that the children may suffer some neglect. If, however, foster home placement is carefully supervised by the state or some authorized child welfare society, such care may be highly satisfactory.
Institutions, however, have a definite function in a child welfare program. Different departments, or even separate institutions, have been created in some states to meet the needs of different children,—those needing definite medical care, the mentally deficient, the behavior problem, etc. For the homeless normal
LESSONS FOR APRIL 107
child who must spend his days in the public's substitute for a home, many new provisions have been made in recent years. The present ideal, only achieved in a few instances, is a plan known as the "cottage system." Small homelike houses are built instead of large dormitories, and a small selected group is presided over by a house mother—sometimes a mother of one of the children. Duties are assigned to each and the schedule followed is as like a home routine as possible. Other larger institutions that find it impracticable to abandon their dormitories, endeavor to give personal attention and take special interest in the children under their care.
Any institution, whether private or state, should keep careful records, should have adequate medical facilities, and should receive supervision either from the state or from an approved board.
Where there are children who are permanently homeless, it may be advisable to arrange for legal adoption. It is highly important, for the protection of both the child and the adopting parents, that a careful study of the child and the home be made. For the protection of the foster parents, it should be learned if the child is normal mentally and physically. It should also be learned if the parents were normal mentally and if there is any congenital family pathology. The foster home should be studied to insure for the child good physical care, educational opportunities, and religious training. Foster parents should be willing to have their homes visited, for in no other way. Can an agency be sure that no child is suffering neglect or is the victim of exploitation by unscrupulous persons.
In order to correct the abuses and disappointments that result from unsupervised traffic in children, the Utah state legislature, last session, enacted a bill of control. This act provided that adoptions of children may be made only by licensed agencies, and the power of license was placed in the hands of the state board of health.
References: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 43 to 54. Oliver Twist, Charles Dickens. ~
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Why should relatives assume the care of homeless children?
2. Why should 'placements in foster homes be carefully supervised?
3. Why is a home environment more desirable than that of an institution?
4. Why should adoptions be officially controlled?
5. To what extent are the recommendations of the White House conference enforced in your community?
Pierce's Hominy Au Gratin
Take one can Pierce's Hominy, add one pint milk, one tablespoon flour, salt and pepper, one tablespoon butter; thicken the milk with the flour; pour over Pierce's Hominy in baking dish; grate 1/4 pound cheese over top and bake in oven twenty minutes. One can Pierce's Hominy fried in drippings from Sausage or Breakfast Bacon makes a delicious second vegetable for the hurry-up meal.
Pierce's Hominy boiled in whole milk with a little salt and pepper accompanied with bread and butter sandwiches makes a fine luncheon for children at noon.
Pierce's Hominy Fritters
One egg well beaten; 1/2 tablespoon salt, teacup milk, flour sufficient to make a thin batter; add 1/4 can of Pierce's Hominy. Fry as one would fry ordinary fried cakes. Serve. With Pierce's prepared Syrup.
Further information concerning Pierce's products and recipes can be obtained by writing 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City.
Magazine Management will pay 20c per copy for the following Magazines:
February, 1924 March, 1924 April, 1924
Please notify office of the number you have on hand before mailing same to us.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
50c per copy.
A Book of 'Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah"' By Mrs. J. Long, When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine. Eureka, Utah, Box 129.
To Our Patrons and Friends
To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relief Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender.
Sample: (Address) Relief Society Magazine, Room 20, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Half Hundred College Celebrities Each an Event
Conducted by more than a score of America's leading educators, each the outstanding authority in his line. Graduate or undergraduate credit, in courses covering all the major branches of learning. A summer session for all classes; mothers, nurses, doctors, teachers, farmers and professional and business people. A summer school right at your door, that offers more advantages in study and recreation than any other in the world! Several of these celebrities will remain for the full quarter.
Special Faculty June 15 to July 25
Allee, Zoology, University of Chicago; Binzell, child psychology, Cornell; McCollum, Nutrition, Johns Hopkins; Boyle, Agr. Economics, Cornell; Carver, Economics, Harvard (quarter); Cowles, Botany, U. Of Chicago; Dykema, Music, Columbia (one week); Ellwood, Sociology, U. Of Missouri (quarter); Franzen, Psychology, U. Of Cal.; Geister, Play and Games, Columbia, (two weeks); Hinman, Dancing, U. Of Chicago (two weeks); Kester, Accounting, Columbia; Kilpatrick, Education, Columbia; Luderbeck, Geology, Cornell; Mrs. Palmer, Geology, U. Of Cal.; Palmer, Nature Study, Cornell; Roseneau, Public Health, Harvard; Sedgewick, English, U. Of British Columbia; Shearer, Primary - Methods, Long Beach, Calif.; Turner, History, Harvard; Walker, Efficiency Methods, Washburn Mfg. Co.; Dr. Widtsoe, Agriculture.
Special Lecturers: Edward Howard Griggs, New York; Shailer Matthews, U. Of Chicago, Divinity School; E. A. Steiner, Grinnell, Iowa; A. E. Winship, Boston.
1st Term: June 15 to July 25 2nd Term: July 27 to Sept. 5 Register June 12 or 13
Tuition fee: $25 1st term; $35 full quarter
Write for catalog
Utah Agricultural College LOGAN, UTAH.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Nourishing-Delicious Easily Prepared
steaming hot dinner prepared for the family! Just heat
Pierce's Pork & Beans
THE UTAH CANNING CO. "Ogden Since 1888"
Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair..................................$1.95
Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair.................................$1.50
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair.................................$1.50
Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable. All Colors Per Pair.................................$1.00 Box of Three Pairs...................$2.85
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
It takes just a jiffy to have a wonderful family—just heat Pierce's Pork and Beans and serve! This dish saves you a great deal of time and trouble, and always delights your family and friends.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Purity is the first requirement in Olive Oil for household or sacred use. Thousands have come to look for the BLUE PINE label and to demand, always, this quality Oil. Made of ripe French olives, refined, and air-tight sealed. Demand Blue Pine Olive Oil
other BLUE PINE products
SCOWCROFT PRODUCT
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. XII MARCH NO. 3
CONTENTS
Poverty Ivy Houtz Woolley 109 Portrait by Romney 110 Where is Heaven?.................... Ruth May Fox 111 A Question Mrs. Parley Nelson 112 Our President Laura J. Adamson 113 National Woman's Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman 115 Editorial—The Seventeenth of March A Memorable Day for Women The Justice Bell - The Difference Estella Webb Thomas A Dear Old Soul Sarah B. Moody A Tribute to Our Old Sisterhood Bertha A. Kleinman The Land of Scott and Burns Alice Louise Reynolds Reference Books on Parliamentary Practice Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart Infant Feeding Notes from the Fields Guide Lessons for May
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private
Contain Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine
Following are the bound volumes we have on hand:
5 vols. 1915, leather bound..................................$3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound.................................3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound...................................2.75 5 vols. 1917, leather bound.................................3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound.................................3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound...................................2.75 5 vols. 1919, leather bound.................................3.50 10 vols. 1920, leather bound................................3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound.................................3.50 6 vols. 1922, cloth bound..................................2.75 5 vols. 1922, leather bound.................................3.50
15c extra for postage
All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Temple and Burial Clothes
Complete Suits for Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
ICE CREAM CANDY: CAKE PUNCHES
deliciously different
PHONE WAS.3225
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS NOW IN STOCK BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.
Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
RECENT ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Mt. Carmel, Utah, January 8, 1925. We received the individual sacrament set in good shape and, speaking in behalf of the people of the ward, are very well pleased with the set.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, January 11, 1925, We received the sacrament sets that the branch has ordered and we wish to thank you for the prompt service that. You gave us in sending them. In regard to the trays we are also very much satisfied as to the finish and size.
BUREAU OF INFORMATION
For 50 Cents Stamps or M. O.
We will send you a pair of hard metal silver plated pepper and salts like cut. Good for life time as wear. (Cut actual size)
W. M. McConahay, Jeweler
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple Block 64 Main St. Salt Lake City Salt Lake City
NEW GARMENTS
The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request.
For Ladies For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Light................ .95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight... 1.25 No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light............ 1.25 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Flat.............. 1.45 No. 925—Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803—Extra Quality Ribb...... 1.50 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton...... 1.85 No. 990—Heavy Ecrn. Cotton........ 2.50 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............ 2.00 No. 9107—Wool & Cotton................ 4.00 No. 850—Imp. Lisle 2.50 No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton.... 4.50
To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether 'garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States.
Oldest Knitting Company in Utah
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St, Salt Lake City
Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT
They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Poverty
Poor soul that has no pain, Poor heart that never caught The rhythm of a kindred heart— Oh, poor indeed thy lot.
Poor throat that ne'er burst forth In song of hope or tears; Poor tongue that never spoke Of love to loving ears.
Poor eyes that cannot see The world in beauty drowned; Poor ears that ne'er have heard Life's welling, joyous sound.
Poor hands that never soothed An aching head to rest; Poor feet that ne'er upon Life's stony pathway pressed.
Poor brain that does not know God's infinite caress— Oh, poor indeed thy lot, To miss such joyousness.
Ivy Houtz Woolley.
PORTRAIT BY ROMNEY
Where is Heaven? Ruth May Fox
(First Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest)
Where is heaven? "Let's go away For a week and a day To the mountain-wilds where the elfins play, Where the rollicking stream goes tumbling along Rousing the woods with his frolicsome song; Come away to the world God, said was good When he made the hills and the solitude; And there we will rest at the mountains' feet, And watch the sun put the stars to sleep, With his magical wand of silver and gold, As he bids all the beauties of nature unfold, Then your heart will o'erflow with paeans of praise, And angels of glory will join in your lays.
Where is heaven? "Find me a nook By a singing brook, The golden chariot speeding Across the brilliant sapphire way, My leafy couch unheeding; The music of the aspen leaves Dancing so gaily in the breeze, Which gently sweeps the lofty pine With fragrance sweet as eglantine; A feathered songster in the tree Pouring his love song out for me, A squirrel darting here and there, Storing away his winter's fare; A friend whose spirit blends with mine, Ah! There for me, the Place Divine.
Where is heaven? "When the lights burn low In the evening's glow Of the hearthstone's cheery gleaming, Throwing its flickering crimson light On youthful faces beaming With innocence and happiness, And homely joys are there to bless, There is heaven. The cooing babe on mother's knee, The father kindly-voiced and free To mingle in the merry chatter, Noting with pride the pitter-patter Of little feet, as to his side The children run, with arms stretched wide. To press his lips with a good-night kiss— There is no fairer heaven than this."
A Question By Mrs. Parley Nelson
(Second poem to receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest)
I sat alone in the twilight Watching the shadows fall, When a song-bird sent out a mystic note, To my heart it seemed to call.
And my conscience shrank from the query, For to me it seemed to say,— "Have you journeyed along With a smile and a song, Have you tried to be kind to-day?"
Then I thought of the weary pilgrim I had jostled aside in the throng, When I should have given a helping hand, For his pathway had been rough and long.
And again I thought of the little child Who had beckoned to me in vain,— I had been so blind, For I meant to be kind, Yet unheeded each cry of pain!
"O Father," I prayed in the twilight, "Touch my eyes that I may see The needs of my fellow mortals Who travel the road with me.
May an understanding heart be mine As I journey along Life's way; With a smile or a tear May I comfort and cheer And always be kind to-day!"
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII MARCH, 1925 No. 3
Our President Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, Blaine Stake, Idaho
Delivered at a banquet given in honor of the General Board of the Relief Society, April 3rd, 1924, at the Hotel Utah, by the stake and mission presidents.
She is the woman whom the Lord, through his priesthood on earth, has chosen to occupy the highest position possible for the Church of Jesus Christ to bestow upon one of our sex. Truly a leader selected before the world was, to take her place among the noble ones.
114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: "These I will make my rulers; for he saw that they were good.'' May we not believe that these words applied to our women as well as to our men?
She is a woman whose life has been devoted to service of the highest order, to the relieving of sickness, sorrow and all forms of distress; a woman recognized nationally, even internationally, for her executive ability, her integrity, and her willingness to give service in the cause of humanity.
Our President, a true home-maker and a mother! She has given loving, sympathetic understanding companionship to her | husband. Has helped him in the battle of life to achieve and acquire. She has gone down to the portals of death that other spirits may have the privilege of receiving bodies. She has given to these spirits training of the highest order.
In a broader sense she is our mother; sacrificing and working continually that through the medium of this great organization our lives may be made richer; that our standards of life may be higher; that we may be better home-makers and mothers, thereby giving to the children of this generation better physical, mental, moral and spiritual opportunities.
Our President, sweet-spirited, gracious, serene, radiating sympathy, love and strength to all, our leader at a time when all the world is in commotion, when we need clear vision, strong faith, and a knowledge of the gospel that cannot be shaken.
Dear Sister Williams, as your stake and mission presidents and representatives of the women of this Church, we tender to you our love, our loyalty and support, and willingness to work under your leadership. May our Father continue to bless you with health and vision that under your guiding hand the women of this organization may accomplish the things required of them.
When Dreams Come True
The Trained Nurse and Hospital Review, a monthly magazine devoted to trained nursing in private practice, in hospitals, institutions and public health service, published in New York City, prints, under the above heading, in its September, 1924, issue, the following paragraph: "The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, Salt Lake City, Utah, graduated eight students on April 17. The school's one-year course of training has been the means of fitting many young women to do relief work in circumstances where the greater skill of the trained nurse is not required."
National Woman's Relief Society Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 1842-1925 Amy Brown Lyman
(Note: This brief report was prepared at the request of the National Council of Women to be placed in a souvenir booklet containing reports from other affiliated societies, to be presented to the international officers, conveners and council delegates attending the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women to be held in Washington, D. C., May, 1925.)
Historical. The National Woman's Relief Society is one of the charter members of the National Council of Women of the United States. The Society was invited to send representatives to the original meeting of the National Council, in Washington, D. C., 1888, and it has, since the organization of the Council, been a continuous, active member of this federation.
The Relief Society was organized March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo, Illinois, and is an auxiliary organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, commonly known as the "Mormon" Church. The Society was founded by Joseph Smith, in the quaint lodge room of the old Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, and was first known as "The Female Relief Society." It began with eighteen charter members including Mrs. Emma Smith and three executive officers. It has grown to a present membership of 56,000. The organization is now national and international in scope, with general headquarters at Salt Lake City, Utah.
On October 10, 1892, the Society was incorporated and has since been known officially and nationally as the National Woman's Relief Society. The Relief Society is perhaps the oldest woman's organization in this country which has continuously persisted; its history, however, pre-dates the American Women's Suffrage Association by only six years. The only national woman's organization of earlier origin was the Female Anti-Slavery Society which dissolved after the abolition of slavery.
Organization. The National Woman's Relief Society is presided over by a General Board which has commodious, well-equipped headquarters in the Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The headquarters include a large, beautifully furnished board room, together with suites for the officers, and for the various departments. The board consists of twenty-three members, including a general president, two vice-presidents, and a general secretary. The present officers of the organization are: President, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams; first vice-president, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight;
116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
second vice-president, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison; general secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.
The Society is made up of ninety-four geographic divisions known as districts or stakes, and seventeen missions, each of which is presided over by a group of stake or mission officers. These stakes and missions are in turn composed of 1,356 branches or single societies known as wards. The work of each branch or ward is directed by a corps of ward officers, and it is in the ward units that the detailed work of the organization is done.
Object and Aims. The aims of the Relief Society as outlined originally were briefly: to manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to foster a love for religion, education, culture and refinement.
In the eighty-three years of its existence, the organization has manifested the spirit of its original purposes—the expression of its aims and ideals has taken form in a variety of movements, which have increased in number and have extended in activity as the Society itself has grown in branches and in membership. From the beginning there has always been a two-fold program— one covering the educational work and the other the welfare activities. At various periods during its existence the Relief Society has emphasized movements that were of particular importance to the women of each era. However, the fundamental object of the organization—welfare work, educational and cultural development—has guided the major activities at all times.
Historic Activities. The women of the Relief Society were early interested in woman suffrage and intermittently had franchise, even in territorial days in Utah. When Utah received statehood in 1896, the constitution permanently bestowed upon women the power of vote. Because of their political privileges locally, the women became active supporters and conspicuous figures in the National Woman Suffrage Movement, and sent delegates regularly to the National Suffrage conventions to lend their support to this great cause.
A unique movement in the pioneer days of Utah was a seri-culture project established by the women of the Relief Society under the direction of Brigham Young. The industry included the planting of mulberry trees, the growing of cocoons, and the manufacture of raw silk into cloth. The industry was successful for many years, the raw material winning prizes at the world's fair in Chicago in 1893. Susan B. Anthony
NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 117
wore with much pride a dress made of Utah silk, presented by the women of the Relief Society. There were three silk factories in the state, and hundreds of yards of silk cloth and ribbon were manufactured.
To facilitate the exchange of domestic commodities in the primitive, isolated western life, where money and manufactured merchandise were scarce, the women operated cooperative stores, or concerns. At these concerns they exchanged the products of their labor, their handiwork, and also household articles, with a view of being mutually helpful in meeting the difficult problems of pioneer conditions.
In order to promote and develop their work effectively, the members of the organization raised funds and erected halls where their weekly meetings and socials were held, and where they gathered to sew, knit, remodel clothing, prepare burial clothing, and make quilts and carpets. These articles were sometimes sold for the benefit of the treasury, but were given freely to those in need. These unique Relief Society halls, costing as much in some instance as $5,000, were to be found in many of the communities, where they stood as monuments to the industry and enterprise of these sturdy pioneer women.
Religious and Cultural Program. One of the features of the Relief Society is educational work for the benefit of the members. Weekly meetings are held in all the 1,356 branches of the Society, where a uniform outlined course of study is presented. The lessons at present include three departments: theology, literature, and social service, and are prepared by experts in these lines. These lessons are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the Society's monthly publication, which has a wide circulation. Wherever possible, women who are or have been actively engaged in teaching, are selected as supervisors and class leaders in this educational work.
The course of study has been varied, and has included lessons in health, citizenship, parliamentary usage, home economics, home gardening, law enforcements, etc. In connection with the lesson work, and as a means of follow-up work, projects in home economics and home gardening have been established, and definite programs in citizenship work and in law enforcement have been carried forward.
In addition to the regular weekly meeting, annual district conferences and semi-annual general conferences are held. - Members of the General Board travel to the district conferences to study and supervise local work and conditions, and the district workers and members travel to the Salt Lake headquarters, twice a year, for general instruction and inspiration. These con-
118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ferences are materially beneficial and helpful in standardizing and unifying the work of the organization.
A late educational development is. The cooperation of the organization with the normal schools and colleges in a number of the western states in conducting what are known as "leadership weeks" where special academic and pedagogical courses are given.
In connection with the educational work the Society has established memorials for past general presidents in the form of two loan funds, a yearly prize poem contest, and a gift for sacred temple service. The loan funds are a loan fund for girls of upper classes at the Brigham Young University, and a loan fund for nurses. These memorials are known as the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest; the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund for Nurses; the Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Temple Grant; the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund for Girls.
Relief Society Publications. In order to have a medium for setting forth the aims and accomplishments of the women of the Relief Society, a woman's paper was established in 1872, known as the Woman's Exponent. At that time this paper was the only woman's paper between Boston and the Pacific Coast. Its columns were open to all movements in the interest of human welfare and the paper encouraged many literary aspirants of early days. The editors of this paper were Mrs. Lula Greene Richards and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, the latter acting in this capacity for forty years, and later becoming general president of the organization.
After forty-two years the Woman's Exponent ceased publication, and in 1914 the. Relief Society Magazine was established, with Mrs. Susa Young Gates as editor and Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde as business manager. The Magazine is the official organ of the Society and has a present circulation of 26,000. Its editors now are Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams and Alice Louise Reynolds.
Charity and Welfare Work. ' The Relief Society, as the name indicates, has always functioned as a philanthropic agency. During the year 1923 the Society's report shows that $97,846.31 was disbursed for charitable purposes. At the time of the Society's organization the founder, Joseph Smith, made a contribution of $5, stating then that whatever he gave in the future to charity would be given through the Relief Society. At this first session, other members made contributions and a program of organized relief has been in operation through the entire history of the Society.
Charity work in the Relief Society is under the direct charge of the ward or branch presidents. They are assisted by a corps of
NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 119
workers, known as Relief Society teachers, or district visitors. This system of district visiting was inaugurated in Nauvoo in 1843, when the membership of the Society grew so rapidly that. The president needed assistance in order to be certain that no illness or suffering was overlooked among the population. A committee of four members from each of the four branches in Nauvoo was appointed to visit all the families regularly and was given the quaint name of ''Necessity Committee." The Society's policy of caring for the physical and material needs of families in distress has been continued and extended. This "Necessity Committee" was the beginning of what is now an elaborate system of family visiting which is a vital part of the program of each ward.
Every family in every branch is visited once a month by two Relief Society women who bear the title of "district teachers." It is their responsibility to discover all instances of sickness and distress and to report their findings to the branch president who makes investigations and administers whatever help is needed. The families of each ward are grouped into districts of twelve families, and the teachers, who visit in pairs are responsible for one district. Besides discovering the families in need on these visits, which are made to all families irrespective of station or wealth, the teachers carry messages of love and greeting from the organization and present an educational topic for discussion. They also accept contributions from those who have offerings to make to the Society.
In Salt Lake City where Relief Society headquarters are located, and where the social problems are more complex and the. Resources more diversified than in the rural districts, a special welfare department has been created to supplement the regular work of the Society, and to furnish a laboratory for training classes in social work which are conducted there at intervals. The trained social workers in this department give intensive supervision that is needed to give constructive treatment to difficult social problems. It has also been the aim of the General Board to improve the standards of charity work generally by giving the branch presidents and district teachers an insight into the fundamental problems of constructive family welfare work.
In 1920, the General Board conducted an intensive course in family welfare work at the summer session of the Brigham Young University, under the personal supervision and tutelage of the general secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Nearly seventy of the stake divisions sent delegates. To. Take this course. The work was later carried into the local divisions where institutes were held with local workers.
A series of outlined lessons in social service have appeared
120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in the Relief Society Magazine for several years, and have been the subject of discussion each month at one of the weekly meetings in all the branches. Social service topics have also been frequently the subject of discussion at conferences, and at "leadership week."
Health and Nursing. The Relief Society, from the time of its organization, has been especially interested in health and nursing problems. Soon after the arrival of the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley in 1847, a council of health was established with the one local doctor in charge, who was assisted by his wife, who had been an English nurse, Lectures were given on obstetrics, nursing, and child care. The women of the organization early realized the need of trained help in time of sickness, and they encouraged a number of their members to enter medical school in the east. During the early days, more than half a dozen prominent women of Utah entered eastern medical colleges, graduating as full-fledged physicians. Almost continuously since the settlement of Utah the Relief Society has conducted courses in health and hygiene, and for twenty years has maintained a school for practical nurses. In many instances the expenses of those taking the course were paid by the local Societies, and in return for this help, the nurses gave charity service in their home communities.
In connection with the health work, the Deseret Hospital was established by the Relief Society, but the undertaking proved too great for the organization. It demonstrated the needs of the community, however, and was the forerunner of the present hospitals of Salt Lake City.
In 1920, the Relief Society succeeded in persuading the L. D. S. Hospital, at Salt Lake City, to open a one-year course for nurse aids. For three years this course continued, but due to objections on the part of the National Hospital Association, the course has been discontinued for the present. This new departure in hospital training created a great deal of interest in many parts of the United States, and its success convinced many that shorter courses in hospital training are practicable.
It has been the chief aim of the Relief Society in connection with its nursing program to make it possible for the people in moderate circumstances to have the benefit of trained help in times of sickness.
Grain Saving and Maternity Work. In 1875, President Brigham Young, realizing the importance of an adequate food supply for his isolated people in far-away Utah, instituted the grain-saving movement. The crops had been threatened and even destroyed from time to time in these early
NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 121
days by the elements and by grasshoppers and other insects, and being cut off from the rest of the country, it seemed imperative that the people should prepare for emergency. Some of these early settlers were in constant fear of famine.
The mission of saving and storing grain was given especially to the sturdy pioneer women who made up the body of the Relief Society at that time, with that courageous and capable leader, Mrs. Emmeline B.. Wells, to direct the project; and from the time the movement was inaugurated, in 1875, until during the World War, nearly fifty years later, the organization had on hand constantly a large supply of wheat and a substantial wheat fund.
In the early days the women bought wheat with funds raised in various ways. They made and sold quilts and other articles, they set aside the funds secured from, the sale of Sunday eggs, and at the harvest time they went into the wheat fields in large numbers and gleaned. On various occasions when great disasters have occurred the Relief Society has contributed wheat and flour. A notable example was the contribution of several carloads of flour sent to San Francisco at the time of the earthquake and fire. At the time of the World War the Relief Society had on hand 100,000 bushels of wheat, which was turned over to the Food Administration, the price being set by the government. In addition to the wheat the Society had a substantial wheat fund. Believing that the grain-saving movement had accomplished its early mission, and with a view of meeting some of the presentday needs, it was recommended by the general president of the organization, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, at the close of the war, that the wheat trust fund amounting to $410,000, be centralized and placed at interest, and that the interest be used for maternity welfare. This recommendation was adopted by the Society and the fund has been centralized. The fund itself will be held in trust for the various branches, but the interest is returned annually to each branch, according to its ownership in the trust fund, to be used by such branch to promote local maternity welfare work. Anticipating the need of the cooperation of various agencies by the state boards and bureaus, in the administration of the Sheppard-Towner work, and desiring to be of the greatest assistance to this work, the General Board of Relief Society recommended, early in 1923, that Relief Society women everywhere cooperate with their various states in the administration of this national and state provision, by helping to arrange for meetings, institutes, and clinics. The Board recommended also that maternity chests be established in each local branch, together with ready-touse maternity bundles and layettes; the chests to contain all sorts of articles for the mother and new baby, with accessories such L22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as syringes, bed-pans, hot water bags, etc., the bundles to contain, first, baby necessities (shirt, band, gown, diaper, blanket). The recommendations of the General Board were readily adopted by the Relief Society generally, and at the end of the year following report came in concerning the work: Number of health centers established............... 13 Number of maternity hospitals established.......... 1 Number districts or stakes in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as stake unit) has cooperated 40 Number of stakes; operating as stake units, having maternity chests:.13 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having maternity bundles 20 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having layettes........24. Number of local branches or wards in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as ward units) has cooperated 210 Number of wards which have maternity chests.......132 Number of wards which have maternity bundles....306 Number of wards which have layettes.............236 Total number of wards which have some provisions for health and maternity welfare work, either in the way of clinics, chests, bundles, or layettes.......599 Number of stakes which assisted in paying county or school nurses....... 3 In addition to the above report, stakes and wards have assisted in arranging for operations and paying for hospital care, have provided household and nursing care during sickness, have conducted weekly classes in health lessons, and arranged for health lectures, and have assisted in providing 'clothing and equipment for children's hospitals, etc., etc. References for Anniversary Programs "First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo," March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims, and Brief History of Relief Society,' March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents,' March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketch of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Magazine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization," March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668. EDITORIAL ° Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS: - - - -: President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - -  - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN.-  - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs, Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Lizzie Thonias Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor: - - -: - - - Alice Louise— REYNOLDS Business Manager - -: - - - -: - -. JEANETTE A. Hyde Assistant Manager: -: - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XII MARCH, 1925 No. 3 The Seventeenth of March On the seventeenth of this month it will be exactly eightythree years since the Relief Society of the Church was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois: Various phases of interest in connection with this event have in different years appeared in The Magazine. May we present on this occasion another aspect—the opportunity for leadership for the women of the Society? Leadership is everywhere necessary, not only among men but among women as well. Causes must be originated and sustained. Groups of people must be organized if there is to be concerted action for any purpose. And this demands leaders. Perhaps there has never been greater need for the right kind of leadership than at present. But leadership involves natural 'endowment, training, and practice, if it is to be the most effective. The leader must be discovered, first, and afterwards given the necessary opportunity to develop. And these two functions our Society performs in an admirable manner. Consider the number and variety of organizations, general and local, in the Relief Society of the Church. There is nothing like these anywhere else in the world. In upwards of a thousand wards, in nearly one hundred stakes, and in the general organization you will find many thousand offices that have to be filled— executive places, secretarial positions, committees, teaching, supervision. These varied activities bring out the natural leaders in the Society. Always there is going on a selective process by 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which women are tried out for places of leadership. And after the leader has been chosen, opportunities abound on every hand for her to develop in the difficult art of leadership among Her Sex. And then consider the variety of activities in this process of development of leaders. To be able to think and speak on one's feet is one of the necessities of leadership nowadays, and the growing standard of the time requires both straight thinking and correct, clear expression. Then there is the matter of having to decide questions that may come up. This makes for good judgment. Besides, the officers of the Society are required to handle funds, which calls for the cultivation of honesty, accuracy in accounts, and judicious management. Finally, those who preside over committee and public meetings are forced to take on the qualities of good taste, courtesy, alertness, decision, and so on. And, in general, there is more or less of a compelling necessity for the officers of the Society to study and learn, so as to discharge the various duties of their offices with the greatest efficiency. In other words, there is present in our organizations a strong incentive to the cultivation of all the qualities of leadership. For these opportunities we are indebted to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the organization of the Relief Society. A Memorable Day for Women New Year's Day, 1925, suggested that the twentieth century is in full stride, and proved to be a memorable one for women. In the United States, Mrs. Florence S. Knapp, newly elected Secretary of State, in New York State, administered the oath of office to Governor Alfred E, Smith before a truly august bod Nor was the day lacking in features of interest, across the water; for on that date England's greatest actress, Miss Ellen Terry, the woman whose light shone beside Sir Henry Irving's, for so many years, became a Dame of the Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire. British papers insist that Miss Terry's award was the outstanding award of the day in Great Britain. The veteran actress is now 76 years of age. She stood for her photograph holding the famous handbag referred to in Barrie's "Alice Sit by the Fire." In receiving the honor she expressed herself as being especially pleased because she said, "It is a recognition of my sex." Yet while Miss Terry's award is the one that attracted most attention, two other women received recognition: Mrs. Millicent Garrett Fawcett, pioneer EDITORIAL 125 in the Woman's Suffrage movement, became a Dame of the Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire; while Mrs. Louisa Aldrick Blake, the Dean of the London School of Medicine. For women, was made Dame Commander of the Order of the British empire. THE JUSTICE BELL (Women's New Liberty Bell) First rung in Independence square, Philadelphia Sept. 25, 1920, to proclaim the completion of citizenship in the United States of America by ratification of the 19th Amendment Enfranchising Woman. The Difference > By Estella Webb Thomas ARS. "In my days," said Grandma, and smiled, Her look was reflective and mild, "I mind how the joys of the girls and the boys Were as simple as those of a child. "We danced—in a decorous way, But thts they call dancing today Would have taken our breath—well, shocked us to death. Was what I was going to say! "We rode in a habit demure, With side-saddle dainty and sure, But we'd rather have died, than humble our pride To ride in a way more secure! "We'd rove at a leisurely pace, And handled the ribbons with grace, Nor required limousine or flying machine, To hurdle our bodies through space! "We flirted a little, perhaps, With the honest, fresh-faced country chaps, But these 'petting parties,' with world weary smarties, These kisses, and sitting on laps! "In my day we treasured our hair. T'was that which made woman so fair, And wouldn't have shorn it, so we could have worn it Like Egypt's old King, I declare! "O well,' Grandma sighed, "I am old, My short span of days is near told, And maybe my ways look as queer in these days, So it won't help the matter to scold!" A Dear Old Soul Sarah B. Moody While summering at the sea-side in Santa Monica, my sisterin-law entertained weekly with beach picnics and other pleasant diversions. A constant guest on these occasions was Mrs. 'Palister, an old lady of over eighty years.; "Is she some relative?" I asked of my sister-in-law. "Oh, no,' she answered. "We always have her because— well—because we love her." In the weeks that followed I began to realize why she was beloved. She seemed unconscious of self and was always looking out for the joy of others. She was jolly, sympathetic, enjoyed everything keenly, and had so much charm that I asked her one day, "How have you managed to keep so sweet and lovely for such long years, even though you have survived all those dearest to you?" "Oh!" she laughed, "I thought that all out forty years ago and decided that when people became old they were either called 'A disagreeable old thing' or "A dear old soul,' and I made up my mind, let come what may, I would try to be 'A dear old soul.'  "How did you go about to accomplish it?" was my next question., "Well, of course, I knew that I could not attain sweetness at a leap and a bound, but that it must be a steady growth, and so I thought out the qualities that made one lovable, and strove every day, no matter what trials came, to make them a part of life. My battle has been on for the last forty years, but I cannot tell you what it has meant to me," she answered. I had a number of subsequent talks with her and always got inspiration from her calm, sweet. Life. Some time later I met another “Dear old soul," whose life seemed a benediction to all about her. I loved to slip away from duty now and then to spend an hour at her side. Somehow it gave me a renewal of courage and of faith, which was imparted by the strength and sweetness of her life. One day she told me the following story. "At forty-five my position of honor and prominence was filled by a younger woman. It was because of my ill health they said, but the awful fear that haunted me was, 'Age is ever thrust aside and out of the way.' Hawthorne's words came to me again and again: 'Time has now given me all the flowers, and the next 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work of his never-idle fingers must be to steal them one by one away.' "One day when my thoughts ran thus I took some faded narcissus from my dining room table and threw them into the yard, and replaced them with fresh ones. 'Such is life,' I sighed. Half an hour later I entered the closed room and found it full of the perfume of the fresh flowers. A thought rushed home—as the new flowers give more fragrance to the room, so does young life give service that old life cannot give. "A joyful call greeted me from the door. I found a neighbor's little child there holding up the faded narcissus. 'May I play with them?' he asked. I saw another smile—the faded flowers give joy to a little child. There is still service for the aging life to give. "I thought about this for several days, and finally fixed the following thought for a guide—youth and love and activity have all been mine, but why waste the golden hours of noontide longing for the return of the dewy freshness of morning? Henceforth I shall not compare my life disadvantageously with youth, but will compare it with the woman of eighty and say, 'How many golden years I have to love and serve and achieve before I become that age." " Both of these "Dear old souls" have gone peacefully home, and neither guessed what a beacon her life had been to me. In my efforts to become "A dear old soul" I have asked many people the question, ""What do you love most in-old people?" and from their answers I have formed the following creed. If one would live truly in her later years— She must have an abiding faith in the goodness of God. Happy is she who can calmly trust and bravely endure. She must struggle for the best in life, then accept what the kind Father sends, feeling that it is for her greatest development. She must hold fast to the choice gifts she has gleaned through the years, but still keep her mind and heart open to see and enjoy the precious gifts of today. She must continue to do some good solid reading, such as good current-event magazines, history, good literature, religious books, and poetry. Aged minds sometimes grow feeble from want of use. She must mingle with young people, talk with them, and try to see their point of view; show an interest in what they are interested in. It will bring sweetness, understanding, sympathy. She must keep up her personal appearance by giving due attention to her clothing, her complexion, her hair, her figure. Old ladies can have charm as well as young ones. But she must be natural, and not imagine she can fool the world into thinking
A DEAR OLD SOUL 129
she is twenty years younger by the excessive use of powder, rouge, hair dye, and gay clothing. People do not love and admire an artificial old lady. She must not think that she should be forgiven a lot of peevishness and selfishness because she is old. There has been such a thing as wearing out the love of one's own children. Be lovable if you would be beloved.
Z
A Tribute to Our Older Sisterhood By Bertha A. Kleinman
(Theme—"The Perfect Day')
When the world is fragrant with melody, And flowers bloom in the May, I still would sing to the golden sheaves And the wealth of an Autumn day:
When the flush of dawn and the noon-day sun Have mellowed the grain to gold, And the feet that have mounted the steeps of life Have grown fagged and spent and old.
Benign, sweet friends with your weakened tread, And the rime-frost shown in your hair, Lo! The storms of life that have swept your sky Have but burnished the twilight there;
Perchance few roses along your way Have honored the path you tread, But sowing the seeds where your feet have pressed, They have bloomed for us. Instead.
Sweet angels of hope, though the day be long, 'Tis by God's Providence spanned, And though there be clouds on the setting sun, You know he doth hold your hand;
Your wonderful faith, like a shining ray, Shall gladden the day's decline, And the harvest of Peace, that your dear hands sow, Be the even-tide divine!
The Editor Abroad - The Land of Scott and Burns. By Alice Louise Reynolds
Last time we left our readers in Glasgow, the commercial city of Scotland, the city that suggests immense activity in shipbuilding; for it was from this region that the first ship sailed into European waters. Yet Glasgow is more than a commercial city, for its cathedral, over which the glamor of romance has been thrown by Sir Walter Scott, and the University on the hill, tell of a city where business and culture are combined to good advantage,
We took a side trip from Glasgow to Paisley, where we were reminded of the shawls of our mothers and of our grandmothers, and where we discovered the place J. And P. Coats spool thread is made. We also sought out the old Abbey, founded in 1160, and in its dim light and musty air looked upon the tombs of early Scottish kings.
From Paisley we drove back to Glasgow, and from thence directly to the Trossachs. Much has been written about the Trossachs, that country where the yellow gorse and purple heather weave a carpet of. ' many colors across the Scottish moors.
Between four and five o'clock in the afternoon we arrived at Loch Lomond, where "The wee birdies sing and the wild flowers spring, And in sunshine the waters are sleeping." Yes, all this and more is visible to the senses of one who stands on the bonnie, bonnie banks of Loch Lomond. It is the largest lake in Great Britain. It is twenty-two miles in length, but the winding course taken by the steamers, that ply its waters, adds to its length from three to eight miles. In width it ranges from a mile to six miles. No one looking into these Scotch mountain lakes can fail to notice how perfectly the waters mirror their surroundings. Wordsworth, the poet, had this thought in mind, when he wrote of St. Mary's lake, a Scotch lake not far from Lomond and Loch Katrine.
"Through her depths St. Mary's Lake Is visibly delighted; For not a feature of those hills Is in the mirror slighted."
We remained that night at the Ardlien Hotel. As the season was nearly over, there were few guests beside ourselves, yet there was no lack of entertainment, for as we sat at our even-
THE LAND OF SCOTT AND BURNS 131
LOCH LOMOND
ing meal we looked out upon the Loch around whose lovely waters nature had thrown a girdle of green, and over which Ben Lomond, the most majestic of all the mountains of the lake country, casts its shadow.
The next morning we continued our drive through this region, passing banks of heather and sometimes a lovely waterfall. At every turn we felt the aptness of Scott's famous lines:
"The briar rose fell in streamers green, And creeping shrubs of thousand dyes, Waved in the west winds summer sighs."
On we drove until finally we reached Loch Katrine, with its banks of verdure, from which open-eyed flowers looked upon an enchanted scene. Loch Katrine is about eight miles long and three quarters of a mile broad, with Ben Venue, 2,386 feet high, on its south and Ben Aan, 1,800 feet high, on its north. Once again we turn to Scott for a description:
"High on the south, huge Ben Venue Down on the lake in masses threw Crags, knolls and mounds.
* 
o 
* 
* Ok While on the south through middle air, Ben-Aan heaved high his forehead bare."
A short distance on the little steamers that bear such attractive names as Sir Walter Scott and the Lady of the Lake, brought us in close contact with Ellen's Isle. It was the good fortune of our party to go over the lake twice, as we had to go back to our car. On the opposite bank from us stood motor
132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
cars and coaches, drawn by horses, in waiting to take the tourists who had crossed the lake to other points of interest. These coaches, unique in their decorations, and in the custumes worn by their drivers, lend color to the scene.
From the Trossachs we drove to Sterling, so long the abode of Scottish kings. There in its bleak, grey castle its monarch lived fretted with border wars and civil strife. 'Sterling Castle," like the "Tower of London," suggests some loathsome political murders; but it suggests more to the readers of the "Lady of the Lake," for it was here that Sir Walter Scott's poem reaches its fine climax. The Castle was probably a Roman fortress, as well as the royal residence of the Kings of Scotland. Within its walls were
STERLING CASTLE
born James II, James IV, and James V, and it was the scene of the coronation of James V, of Mary, Queen of Scots, and James VI. We found nothing about Sterling Castle as attractive as the scene from the battlements, a field of well kept farms. In former days, Mary Queen of Scots and the Ladies of the Court looked out upon this lovely field, at the gay tournaments of the knights. Indeed the place appeared to be so ideal, for the purpose, that it seemed well nigh impossible to believe that castle and armor are a thing of the past; and equally impossible to resist peopling it with knights in armor; bearing in their hands long lances, and wearing upon their heads bright helmets with gay colors. One sees in the walls of the battlements two holes, one
THE LAND OF SCOTT AND BURNS 133
marked M. R. 1561 from which Queen Mary was wont to watch the scenes below, and the other known as Queen Victoria's Look Out, the place from which Queen Victoria and Prince Albert admired the scenery, in 1842. The time of the year at which our party saw it, it resembled a checker-board of green and yellow, fit sight for any queen.
The other object of special interest at Sterling, is the Wallace Monument, a tall, round tower of stone, built on a prominence opposite Sterling Castle. The Wallace Monument is commemorative of the victory, known as the Battle of Sterling Bridge, which the Scottish patriot achieved over the English Army, in 1297. The most interesting relic in the tower is the Wallace sword. As we climbed from floor to floor over a distance that Miss Elliott, my traveling companion, says made us all leg-weary, we noted on one landing an exhibit of the portraits of distinguished Scotchmen. It reminded us of the staircases, in the Massachusetts Building, at the Panama Pacific Exhibition, in 1915; we wondered as we saw the exhibit of great men, from that state, whether there is really any opportunity, for - any other state, in the Union to distinguish itself in a similar manner; and so as we read the names of Scotchmen of note, about the tower, we thought of the story told of one of the sons of Caledonia,
134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
who visited London and who on his return to his native land was asked what he thought of the Englishmen. His reply was he did not know; he saw none of them, as he had only visited the government officers.
As we left the Wallace Monument we made our way to the field of Bannockburn, where a patriotic scotchman did his best to show us the course of the field., We realized once again how truly Burns had been the mouthpiece of his nation when he wrote:
THE BATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN
"Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled, Scots wham Bruce has aften led, Welcome to your gory bed, Or to victory.
Now's the day and now's the hour, See the front o' battle lour; See approach proud Edward's power, Chains and slavery.
Wha would be a traitor knave? Wha would fill a cowards grave? Wha sae base as be a slave? Let him turn and flee!"
Before leaving Sterling we wish to say a word about the Golden Lion, the hotel where we chanced to stay over night. Close to our room was a room marked Burns' room. We inquired why, and were told that Robert Burns had occupied the room in 1787, and that he had scratched the following poem upon the window, with his diamond ring. The room is room 22. We do not know whether the authenticity of the poem would be contested or not, but we do know that everything about the poem is characteristic of Burns, so we include it:
"Here Stuarts once in glory reigned, And laws for Scotland's weal ordained, But now unroofed their palace stands, Their sceptre's swayed by other hands; Fallen indeed, and to the earth Whence groveling reptiles take their birth The-injured Stuart line is gone, A race outlandish fills their throne, An idiot race to honor lost, Who knows them best despise them most."
On being told that such a poem would affect his prospects of advancement, he took the diamond ring and wrote the following:
"Rash mortal, and, slanderous poet thy name; Shall no longer appear in the records of Fame; Dost not know that old Mansfield, who writes like the Bible, Says the more 'tis a truth sir the more 'tis a libel?"
* We are now on the last stretch of the road, we are leaving
'THE LAND OF SCOTT AND BURNS 135
Sterling for Edinburgh, thirty-six miles distant. Soon we shall be to the Firth of Forth, when we shall have gone across country from the Clyde to the Forth. You will recall that at New Galloway we met a lady who said she thought she should chose Edinburgh above all other cities to live in, and that she thinks she is most fortunate in being able to live there. In our next article we shall seek to discover how well founded her reasons are, and also we shall try to learn why Robert Louis Stevenson called it ""Auld Reekie," and why many have refered to it in these later days as "the modern Athens."
In closing this article, we wish to emphasize that while Burns and Scott lead the procession of those who have heightened all the charms of their native land, with the poet's immortal touch: yet in Scotland there are many song writers who have preserved its traditions and revealed its great beauty. Scotland has proved irresistible to the maker of verse, and her song writers have flooded the land with melody. Yesterday we stood looking at a French village painted by the great master Carot. We marveled at it. That which Carot has done for the French village, Scotland's poets have done for Scotland.
Reference Books on Parliamentary Practice
' Answering the request of some of our Relief Society officers for reference books on parliamentary practice, we submit the following as being good:
What Every Club Women Ought to Know, a new, simple, and satisfying little book on parliamentary law, which will enable any woman to conduct or participate in organization meetings;—by Anna Steese Richardson, director of the Woman's Home Companion, published by the Crowell Publishing Company, New York, N. Y., price 10c.
Parliamentary Practice, an introduction to Parliamentary Law, by General Henry M. Robert, published by the Century Company, New York, N. Y., price $1. 2. Parliamentary Practice is a brief introduction to parliamentary law. It gives in concrete form the best parliamentary rules for conducting an ordinary meeting. It not only gives the rules to be followed, but shows how it is worked out in actual practice. It would be an excellent book for beginners to study.
Practical Lessons in Parliamentary Procedure, by Mary. Redfield Plummer, price $1.00. This little book is based on Robert's Rules of Order, and accepted authority, is simple and clear in statement, logically arranged and presented. There are fifteen
136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
lessons in all, given in a most concise and practical manner. Mrs. Plummer's book has many recommendations for use by prominent education and club women.
An accompanying book called Ready References on Principal Parliamentary Points is a little indexed handbook which answers any mooted question in parliamentary procedure. The price of this is also $1.00. Both these books are valuable aids to the conduct of an organization from opening to adjournment. They may be purchased from the author, 878 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois, or from Mrs. P. J. Adams, 270 West, 2nd South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The following is quoted from Parliamentary Practice:
Among the established rules and customs which constitute parliamentary law are the following elementary ones that every one should know:
(1) Only one question can be considered at a time. It must be put in the form of a proposition or motion, to be proposed or moved by one member and seconded by another, and must then be stated by the presiding officer, after which it is open to debate and amendment.
(2) No one can make a motion or speak in debate until he has risen and addressed the presiding officer by his proper title and has been "recognized" by him and thus has "obtained the floor."
(3) No one can speak unreasonably long (over ten minutes in ordinary societies), or more than twice on the same question on the same day, without permission of the assembly.
(4) No member can speak a second time on the same question, provided anyone desires to speak who has not spoken on that question.
(5) No one in speaking can address his remarks to another member or use another member's name when it can be avoided, but his remarks must be addressed to the presiding officer.
(6) When a question is once before the assembly it must be adopted or rejected by a vote, or be disposed of in some other way, before any other subject can be introduced except certain ones entitled to this privilege and which are therefore called privileged questions.
Jennie B. Knight, Annie W. Cannon, Julia A. Child.
The General Presidency and board members of the Relief Society, wish to express their thanks and appreciation for the many good wishes for the new year, sent to them from the different stakes and missions.
Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart
Questions: What can be used to clean nickel?
If nickel is washed frequently with hot soapsuds and polished with a dry cloth, it can be kept in good condition. When special attention is needed, a paste of ammonia with whiting may be used. Commercially prepared silver polishes are also good. Avoid using preparations that scratch. Old powder puffs, thoroughly cleaned, make good polishers.
How can small portions or bits of left-over vegetables be used?
Try poaching in milk as many eggs as there are persons to be served. Remove the eggs to slices of toast, thicken the milk or make a white sauce of it, season with salt, pepper, paprika or celery salt, add vegetables cut into small pieces and cook until they are thoroughly heated. Pour around the eggs and serve. Peas, string beans, carrots or asparagus may be used separately or with potatoes and makes a nourishing dish. They may also be used in making individual meat and vegetable pies.
Can you tell me if there is any way in which pimentos may be kept after the can is opened?
The answer to this was given in the February Magazine, 1923, p. 74.
Is there any way to prevent the skins of apples from breaking when they are baked?
Try pricking the skins with a fork or skewer and bake in muffin pans. Much depends on the kind of apple used. Onions, stuffed tomatoes, or stuffed peppers, will keep their shape better if baked in muffin tins.
Olive oil for salad will not turn rancid, after the can or bottle has been opened if two lumps of sugar are dissolved in each quart of oil—Mrs. M. L. I., Ogden, Utah.
An economical way to make a quilt if no other material is at hand is to take the bottom and least worn parts of old shirts, cut in any size pieces desired and sew together. Make two covers two and one-half yards square or two and one-half by two and one-fourth yards as preferred. With a wool batt and close quilting this makes a soft, warm, cheap, quilt. It can be covered with new material and not be too heavy for common use. (Pretty,
138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
light colors that harmonize make very pretty quilts.)—Mrs. P. A. B., Zensff, Arizona,
If the kitchen stove has to be blackened try this. Cover the hands with a soap lather and permit it to dry on before starting the process. It serves as well as gloves, when the hands are washed the polish will all wash off with the soap.—Mrs. V. S. Blanding, Utah.
The above suggests this thought, when stoves are stored for the summer they should be carefully rubbed with kerosene to prevent rusting.
One way I have found of saving money is to pay cash for groceries. When I have the money, I go where I can get the best for it. I allow myself so much each month, and plan to keep within that amount. If I had a charge account my bill would get ahead of me. It is hard to pay for the pound of butter already used. Paying cash makes housekeeping more interesting and cheerful—Mrs. H. P., Magna, Utah.
If the garbage pail is lined with newspaper it helps to preserve it and keep it clean It can easily be removed and fresh put in.
When rubber aprons or baby's rubber panties begin to tear, mend with adhesive tape. Place the torn edges closely together and 'put the center of a narrow strip of tape directly over them. Press carefully with fingers to prevent wrinkles.
Small pieces of an old felt hat, glued to the bottom of the chair legs, or any other furniture that is easily moved, will prevent them from marring or scratching the floors. Glass coasters under legs of heavy furniture will prevent the same and also relieve the pressure and wear on rugs.
Round, flat tin boxes are excellent to keep doilies from being soiled and wrinkled.
Fine salt and a stiff brush are good tools with which to clean a wire sieve or bowl strainer. Use the rotary motion to prevent wear on the wire and soiling the front of your apron.
Conference Visitors
The adult blind extend an invitation to conference visitors to inspect the new work shop at 154 Regent Street. 'The handiwork of these men is for sale and they are glad to take orders from out-of-town people. As idleness is the great tragedy of the blind, all they ask is an opportunity to work.
Infant Feeding By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education
The problem of infant feeding is a complex one which not only demands careful consideration by the mother but also by the doctor in charge. Other factors being equal the breastfed baby stands a much better chance of maintaining normal rate of growth than does the bottle-fed baby. The death rate of bottlefed infants compared with breast-fed has been much greater than it is at present. In 1892 in Germany, Prof. Roch showed that modified milk increased mortality. In a study made in Leipsic in 1910 it was shown that children who nursed showed a death rate of one out of 13 at the end of 10 months. In the same study the death rate of bottle-fed babies was one to two.
Careful investigation has been carried on by pediatricians in all countries in the past fifteen years and the results of these studies have materially decreased the death rate of bottle fed infants. In attempts to obtain a liquid as much like the composition of mother's milk as possible a great many patented baby foods have flooded the market. When used over a short period of time some brands seemed to cause less distress than cow's milk, as they seemed to be more readily digested. While babies fed on these preparations often make satisfactory gains in weight, their resistance has been less than might be expected. In the light of recent experiments, the poor resistance probably resulted from lack of sufficient ash constituents, vitamines, and the right kind of proteins.
At the present time the tendency is to modify cow's milk so that it will closely correspond chemically, physically and physiologically with mother's milk. In-general terms of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, it is not considered very difficult to modify cow's milk so that it has these food classes in the same proportion as' in mother's milk. Some difficulty has been encountered in modifying the casein of the milk so that the curd will not be in too large pieces for ease of digestion. The most common prac-
140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tice for making a finer curd is to boil the milk one to three minutes, or rely on some device for making a finer coagulation by means of mechanical separation which is usually accomplished by using a thin barley or oatmeal gruel in the place of water. In addition to those listed above a very thin mixture of gelatine is sometimes used in place of water. Advocates of this addition not only claim that it makes digestion easier but they also maintain that the additional kind of protein which is easily digested is valuable for growth.
Notwithstanding the progress made in working out formulas for nursing infants the baby who is favored with a normal supply of mother's milk is indeed born under a lucky star. If he lives under satisfactory conditions as to cleanliness, warmth, air and sunshine and has regular meal times as well as long hours for rest, his chances should be satisfactory for a normal rate of growth.
In general terms the normal infant is expected to double the weight at birth at the end of six months and make this same additional gain at the end of the first year. Thus a seven pound baby should weigh fourteen pounds at 6 months and twenty-one pounds at the end of twelve months. This normal gain is probably the best index the average mother has of determining the health of her baby. It does not, however, tell the entire story as the baby must have firm flesh, muscles firm enough to be elastic, skin healthy color, bright eyes, glossy hair, quiet sleep, the right number of teeth for his age and good disposition. '
Careful attention, however, must be given the diet of the nursing mother if the baby is to maintain normal development. A nursing baby can not be properly nourished if the mother's diet is deficient in vitamines or ash over any considerable length of time. Delayed dentition may result if the mother's body has a low calcium or phosphorous balance. In order to safeguard the health of the child the nursing mother should live up-to the highest dietary standards. In brief, she should have one quart of milk a day, some root vegetables every day other than potatoes, some green leaf vegetables twice a day and uncooked fruit once a day in addition to the usual bread, butter, potatoes, etc.
Dr. Thorndyke's classic statement, "That the mother who weighs her baby least does not love it most" is worthy the attention of thinking mothers. Much worry on the part of the mother, and suffering, discomfort, and delay in growth on the part of the child might be avoided if mothers weighed their babies with some regularity before and after feeding them. This is especially necessary in the case of the breast fed baby as it will help the mother to determine some of the factors which mitigate against normal milk production. These factors frequently are eating too
FEEDING INFANTS 141
little food, too much extra work or worry which destroys the equanimity of mind so necessary for normal milk production.
The mother who does not weigh her baby as well as the runabout child in order to determine whether or not the expected gain is being made is assuming more risk than is safe for the welfare of the child.
Regularity of feeding has much to do in maintaining good feeding condition. Some pediatricians claim there should not be one minute's deviation from the schedule worked out by the physician. Careful attention in this helps to establish rhythm in | the digestive tract. Glands secreting digestive juices respond to stimuli more readily if there is no variation in time. Furthermore, there is less danger of stomach disturbances if the right interval is lived up to religiously as it is believed that too frequent nursing increases the fat content of the milk. Experience indicates that the quality of the milk is better at regular intervals. Grullee lays much stress upon the importance of regular feeding, and says that the stomach should be empty before more food is put into it. When more food is put upon half digested food, colic ensues. When feedings are too frequent severe vomiting: may result.
The baby whose mother dies at its birth is more seriously handicapped than the one who is able to nurse for some days or who has to have only one or two supplementary feedings. The normal food for the first few days is cholesterin which differs from milk in composition although it contains some food stuffs. This fluid gives the alimentary tract little work, provides some nourishment and furnishes a satisfactory means of clearing out the alimentary tract.
Because mother's milk undergoes changes in composition and amount during the first few days of lactation the building up a food that will meet energy and growth demands of the tiny baby, as well as prove easy of digestion, is a difficult problem. There are, however, several fundamental principles to keep in mind. One of the most important is great care that all food and utensils are free from undesirable bacteria. At birth the intestinal tract of the normal infant is free from bacteria.
Another important point to guard against during the first month is not to use a formula stronger than the infant can digest. Less trouble will ensue if a weak formula is built up slowly the first few days. While the physician in charge will, of course, provide the formula, the mother or nurse should not change size of feeding or composition without understanding what the physician has in mind. The interval between feedings is also set by the physician. The tendency has been toward a longer interval between feedings.
142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
At a very early age, a three hour period is used although this is gradually lengthened to a four hour interval. It is thought that healthy children can stand longer intervals than weak ones.
The following tables as to amount of food for the 24 hour period and approximate capacity of child's stomach is interesting as a matter of comparison.
Age Amount of 24 Hr. Average Capacity of Infant's Stomach Food Day Capacity Day New born child 1¼ oz. End of 1st week 8-10 oz. End of 1st month 2½" ' End of 1st month 19-20 " End of 2nd month 3¼ " End of 2nd month 25-26 " st End of 3rd month 4¼ " End of 3rd month 26-27 " " End of 4th month 5 " End of 4th month 27-29 " 4 End of 5th month 5¼" End of 5th month 29-30 " a End of 12th month 8¼ " End of 6th month 32 " 4 End of 24th month 17¼ "
The amount of feeding is one oz. Larger than the estimated capacity of the stomach as it is thought some water is lost through intestines before the child finishes eating.
The question of uncooked, pasteurized or boiled milk for the bottle fed baby is a question still unsettled. Some people have thought that uncooked milk was valuable because heat destroyed the vitamine C, but the present practice of making an early addition of a small amount of orange juice in the diet of the bottle-fed baby has made this argument useless in the case of boiled as well as pasteurized milk. Technically the term pasteurization means the procedure recommended by Pasteur the eminent French Scientist who devised this means of making milk safe. This is essentially keeping milk between 143-145° F for thirty minutes. It is rather common practice at the present time in the process of milk modification to boil milk for the bottle fed baby as it is believed by many pediatricians that with boiled milk the digestive juice produces a more flocculent curd. The usual custom is to boil milk for three minutes and then cool quickly. Modification according to prescription is then made with sterile utensils.
The ordinary milk supply in the home or small town is much safer if milk after dilution is heated in the top part of a double boiler ten minutes after water boils then left two minutes more at this temperature before it is cooled quickly. Milk cannot be kept safe for a baby unless satisfactory refrigeration is possible. The ordinary refrigerator is of course the most ideal means of keeping milk 20 hours after it has been modified. When this is impossible, fresh milk should be obtained two or possibly three times a day, modified, and then kept at the lowest possible temperature. In moderate weather where it is impossible to obtain ice the principle of the iceless
FEEDING INFANTS 143
refrigerator may be applied and fair results obtained. Place milk in bottles, wrap several thicknesses of old linen, cheese cloth or knit underwear around it, saturate cloth and set in platter or shallow pan with as much water as dish will hold. Stand in draft where there is good circulation and milk can be kept sweet for sometime. Scrupulous care must be exercised so that all the water will not evaporate as it is the constant evaporation which cools the milk. Where the baby is small and the weather warm, where there is no ice, it is safer to keep whole milk as cold as possible and then boil or pasteurize milk and modify only enough for one or possibly two feedings at a time. While this sounds like a great deal of detail and extra work it saves time and worry in the end, if by this extra care the baby can be kept well.
The home milk supply is not always as clean as it should be. Clean milk cannot be produced in dirty surroundings from uncurried cows by milkers having dirty hands and wearing soiled clothes. Greater care should not only be exercised in producing milk but more attention should be given to the care of the milk after it is turned over to the housewife. Frequently this is where a little knowledge is dangerous. Many housewives have the mistaken idea that milk strained through a cloth strainer is clean. The visible specks removed are worth little consideration compared to the many bacteria washed from the unsterilized cloth used as a strainer. Warm milk is an ideal medium for the development of bacteria. Consequently every thing milk touches should be as clean as boiling water can make it.
All utensils should be rinsed in warm water, washed with a clean dishcloth with water in which there is soap or soda, rinsed free of soap with warm water, and then scalded. If utensils can be turned upside down in a place free from dust, wiping is unnecessary. The strainer cloth also should be washed out in tepid water, then washed with soap and rinsed and then it should be placed in more than enough water to cover it and brought to boiling point and kept there ten minutes. To save time and energy, surgeons gauze may be purchased by the pound and small pieces of several thicknesses may be cut off large enough to cover the bottom of the strainer. Don't use strainer clothes that haven't been properly washed and sterilized.
At the present time several different theories as to infant feeding are being tried, the range is perhaps greater than it has been for some years. Perhaps the "protein milk" indicates one phase of study of a much diluted mixture, while the more concentrated mixture, containing butter, flour and sugar indicates another line of thought. As these should be used only under a physicians directions, it doesn't seem wise to publish them here.
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Duchesne Stake. A contest was recently held between the Mountain Home and Boneta wards for 100% teachers' report, during a period of three months. The Mountain Home Ward won in the contest and the members were royally entertained by the Boneta ward. Mrs. Mabel Stevenson drove a large truck which conveyed the Relief Society women to Boneta where they were very graciously received and entertained at a reception and luncheon.
Logan Stake. Mrs. Mary L. Hendrickson, a member of the stake board, has become a patron to the National Council of Women. The stake workers are pleased that Mrs. Hendrickson has affiliated herself with this important organization.
Summit Stake. A very interesting story is connected with the gift of a new home-made carpet by the women of the Woodland ward Relief Society to their new chapel. The women donated the rags individually and sewed and wound them in work and business meeting. The balls were then sent to Salt Lake City to the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 145
Work Shop for the Blind where the rags were woven into carpet. While this work was going on the hens in the ward were helping out by laying Sunday eggs which were set aside and donated to pay for the warp and weaving.
Bear Lake Stake. In the Bear Lake stake during the past year a greater number of women have taken an active part than ever before. During July and August a course of twelve lessons in "Nutrition," prepared and sent out by the extension department of the University of Idaho, was taken up. There was a very good attendance and splendid interest taken in these lessons. Copies of each lesson were sent in sufficient numbers for every woman enrolled in the Relief Society. Three distinct conventions were held in October and were well attended. In September a one-day clinic was held in the stake at which ninety-five children of pre-school age were given examinations. The director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene was in charge, assisted by the state nurse, two local doctors and a local nurse. The stake officers of the Relief Society assisted greatly in making the clinic a success, and the stake secretary gave a great deal of time in advertising and making other preparations. She also made the visits to the homes with the school nurse in the follow-up work. Much good was accomplished through the clinic.
New Zealand Mission. The following paragraph is taken from a letter from Mrs. Martha J. Wright, president of the New Zealand Mission Relief Societies: "We have two additional associations since the last annual report, and all are showing a deeper interest as they become better acquainted with the work and lessons from the Magazine. Most of the associations are now subscribing for the Magazine and enjoying the contents, though some of the lessons are a little difficult to understand. The testimony and theology lessons are much appreciated by them. I have frequently written and had translated into Maori the social service lessons. They are always enjoyed and are needed as much or more than some of the religious topics. We thoroughly enjoy the Magazine and always look forward fondly for its arrival. 'Investing in Love,' the wonderful story in the November issue, is of itself worth the annual subscription, and appeals especially to the Maori mothers, as the almost universal custom among them is to adopt several dependent little tots. One well-to-do mother and father have raised to manhood and womanhood eleven who are now married and away, and they now have seven more small unfortunates whom they are feeding, clothing and sending to school,"
146 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Canadian Mission. Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, president of the Canadian mission Relief Societies, writes: "I am very pleased, indeed, to say that the Relief Society work in the Canadian mission is making progress and is responding 'nicely to all the requirements of this great organization. There have been two new organizations effected during the year which are doing splendid work. Of course, we have but few members owing to the fact that our mission is young and covers such a great distance. It has not been my pleasure to make personal visits to all of the societies in the mission, but I have been in constant touch with all of them and know of the good work they are doing. The lady missionaries have been a wonderful help in the Relief Society work in teaching those necessary things that build spirituality and bring together a closer feeling of cooperation."
Shelley Stake. ' At the recent stake conference held in Shelley, first counselor, Nellie D. Dye, second counselor, Birdie Christensen, secretary, Anna M. Mallory, chorister, Anna R. Jacobson, and board member, Minda Cutler, were released on account of poor health. On December 30 a stake social was held in honor of the retiring members, consisting of a very interesting program, including a short drama by the Shelley First ward, after which refreshments were served. Each of the guests of honor was presented with a beautiful ring, containing her birth stone. Expressions of appreciation were freely given for the splendid service they have rendered the Relief Society. The following sisters were sustained and set apart to fill the vacancies: Mrs, Hulda G. Mickelson and Mrs. Emma Holm, counselors: Mrs. Cora ' Christensen, secretary, and Mrs. Anna R. Jacobsen, Magazine agent.
Alpine Stake. After twenty-three years of service in the Relief Society of the Alpine stake, Mrs. Emma Jane Evans Roberts has been released, at her own request, in order to give more time to genealogical and temple work. Mrs. Roberts has from her youth been extremely active in church work. At the age of nine years, she was present at and chosen secretary of the first primary Association organized in Lehi, acting in that capacity until she entered the Y. L. M. I. A., in which organization she was counselor in the Lehi ward for a number of years. She was called into the Alpine stake Relief Society as treasurer and corresponding secretary, which position she held for twelve years, when she
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 147
was chosen counselor in the presidency. She was instrumental in planning lesson work for the Relief Society of Alpine stake before general outlines were given by the General Board. In May, 1914, Mrs. Roberts was chosen chairman of the stake genealogical work, and June 18, 1914, supervised the first excursion from 'Alpine stake to the Salt Lake temple, numbering three hundred, the largest session up to that time. Mrs. Roberts is at present a member of the Alpine stake genealogical board, and is family recorder and chairman of research and. Temple committee for the "David Evans Family Organization" (descendants of her father), chairman of research and temple committee for the Evans Surname organization, recording secretary for the Roberts Surname organization. She is also recording and looking after the temple work for several aged people in Lehi.
Mt. Ogden Stake. For the past two years the Mt. Ogden stake has had a commissary where quilts are made and all kinds of sewing done, each ward in the stake sewing there one day a month. The close touch and sympathy between stake and ward workers which came about through the constant association at the commissary have been factors in uniting the women of the stake in all their work. Six of the organizations in this stake and also the stake board have the Relief Society Magazine from 1914 to 1923 bound for reference. A prize was offered by the stake board to the ward Relief Society which had the greatest number who had read the Doctrine and Covenants during the year. The prize was won by the Twelfth ward which reported 112 who had completed the book.
Erratum
In the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize poems, published in the January, 1925 issue of The Magazine, three errors occurred:
"Oh, White-winged Gull," by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, has a mistake in the third line of the third stanza. It was printed: Wow, when my erring feet would stray, It should be: How, when my erring feet would stray,
The fourth line of the first stanza of '"The Pioneer Mother" by Mrs. 'Alice Morrill is printed, A selfish life—no weak reproach, nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil, ' It should read: A selfless life—no weak reproach, nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil. In the last line of the— stanza the word mighty should be nightly. Guide Lessons for May LESSON I (First Week in May) Theology and Testimony THE NOACHIAN DISPENSATION A. THE PERIOD 1. The Time—Though Noah was given the Priesthood at ten years of age, his calling as a dispensator was much later in his life. While we know that he labored long as a preacher of the gospel before the flood, and that his life's labors extended to three hundred and fifty years after the flood, we are not informed as to how long the work of the dispensation was carried on after his death. But it is safe to say that the dispensation extended over the second thousand years of the history of the Adamic race on the earth. 2. The Conditions—In spite of the success of the people of God in their efforts to make a heaven on earth, the masses of mankind indulged in conduct leading to conditions the very opposite of heaven. After the translation of Zion, things went from bad to worse for centuries. It would seem that the Evil One might have concluded that the Lord had taken what he wanted and had left the most of mankind to the mercy of Lucifer. But God had not yet turned the world, bad as it was, over to the "buffetings of Satan." Some good men remained on the earth. Methuselah, the son of Enoch, remained to fulfil a promise of the Lord made to Enoch: "For the Lord truly covenanted with Enoch that Noah should be of the fruit of his loins," (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 8:2). And in due time, Noah, the greatgrandson of Enoch, was born among a people rushing madly on to the doom of destruction. In the midst of social self-sufficiency and spiritual defiance, Noah was called to proclaim a halt and in the name of the Lord command repentance. Noah and his sons, because of their spiritual birth through baptism, and their divine authority through ordination, were recognized as sons of God, in honor by the Lord and possibly in derision by the unbelievers. These "sons of God" had superior children. Their daughters were "fair" (strikingly beautiful) and the "giants," the most powerful of unbelieving men, woed and won these daughters of the sons of God. This conquest of the sons of men through a self-selling by the covenant daughters GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 149 was very grievous in the eyes of the Lord. And there are circumstances connected with the curse of Canaan, the son of Ham, that point to the justification of a suspicion that the self-selling was not all on the side of the daughters. We know that Ham's wife was the mother of that branch of Noah's family which "preserved the curse in the land," and that they were denied the Priesthood and in the light of these facts we face the question: Did not Ham sell himself by marriage? B. MEMORABLE EVENTS 1. The Calling of Noah as a Dispensator: '""And the Lord ordained Noah after his order, and commanded him that he should go forth and declare his gospel unto the children of men, even as it was given unto Enoch." (See Pearl of Great Price, Moses 8:19). 2. Noah's Message: (a) His Last Call to Repentance: "And it came to pass that Noah called upon the children of men that they should repent; but they hearkened not unto his words." (Moses 8:20). (b) The Infidel's Answer: "And also, after that they had heard him they came up before him, saying: Behold, we are the sons of God; have we not taken unto ourselves the daughters of men? And are we not eating and drinking, and marrying and giving in marriage?" (Moses 3:21), (c) The Final Warning Call: "Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you." (Moses'8:24). 3. The Deluge: (a) The Necessity for It. God had promised the flood as a penalty for persistence in sin; failure of his promise would mean that he was not a God of truth. The earth which obeys law felt the weight of man's iniquity and cried for deliverance: ''And it came to pass that Enoch looked upon the earth; and he heard a voice from the bowels thereof, saying; Wo, wo is me, the mother of men; I am pained, I am weary, because of the wickedness of my children. When shall I rest, and be cleansed from the filthiness which is gone forth out of me? When will my Creator sanctify me, that I may rest, and righeousness for a season abide upon my face? "And when Enoch heard the earth mourn, he wept, 1 i 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, wilt thou not have compassion upon the earth? Wilt thou not bless the children of Noah?" (Moses 7:48, 49). (b) The Preparation for the Deluge—The Lord was the architect of the ark, and it was built by Noah and his sons under divine supervision, in the face of the derision and persecution of the self-sufficient, sinful populace. (Genesis 6:14). (c) The Crew—Noah, six hundred years of age; Japhet, one hundred and fifty years of age; Shem, one hundred and eight years of age; Ham, one hundred years of age; and the three women helpmates. (See Genesis 7). (d) The Cargo of the Ark—It was just what the Lord directed Noah to take, no more no less. (Gen. 7). (e) In the Ark—Noah and his family were housed in the ark for nearly a year (ten months, fourteen days). (See Genesis 7:11; 8:9). Of this time there were forty days of down-pour before the ark foated. (See Genesis 7:17). Something over five months was the ark afloat. (See Genesis 7:24; 8:4). (£) The Pilot—God was the pilot of this ship of Salvation. The First Altar on the Baptized Earth—On coming out of the ark Noah's first thoughts were of God; his first emotion was gratitude; his first work was the building of an altar and offering sacrifice. (See Genesis 8:20). He first obeyed the first great law of salvation as given by Christ.: The Bow of Promise (See Genesis 9:13-17)—The rainbow had no doubt been seen before the flood, but it had not been selected as a token of God's promise or covenant with "all living things," that never again would there be another deluge, and in that promise there is seen the certainty that sin will never get such a universal grip on the human family; for if conditions that made the flood necessary should re-occur another deluge would follow. Identical causes produce identical effects. The Curse of Canaan—In his eargness to advertise his father's faults, Ham gave evidence of not being a high grade man, rather low in fact, when his conduct is compared with that of Japheth and Shem. But this sacrilege of Ham could not have justified the GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 151 patriarch in pronouncing a curse upon one of the offender's children. If, however, the blood of Cain flowed in the veins of Canaan it was a bar to his having the privileges of the Priesthood. He could not become an officer in the kingdom of God nor would he be entitled to marriage with a woman entitled to the blessing of the Priesthood. Noah's pronouncement against Canaan must have had behind it something more than retribution; it must have had some great good as its objective. Whether that objective was the preventing of undesirable blood mixing, or not, it has operated and is still operating as such a preventative. C. DOCTRINES AND ORDINANCES. The same doctrines taught during the Adamic Dispensation were promulgated during the Noachian with emphasis on repentance, and, no doubt, the ordinances of baptism and ordination and marriage were performed. The work done in this dispensation before the flood converted none of the wicked, but it condemned all of them. They would not listen to truth; they would not heed warnings. The Lord kept the gospel on the earth, and the wicked were swept away. D. The Biography of Noah. 1. Noah was a child of promise, the great-grandson of Enoch. See Moses 8:2; Genesis 5:21-32. 2. He was the second father of the race. 3. Noah is Gabriel. See D. And C. Commentary, p. 623. 4. He appeared to Daniel. See Daniel 8:16-27; 9 21 -27. 5. He came to Zacharias. See Luke 1:19. 6. He notified the Virgin Mary of her election. Luke 1:26. 7. He spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith. D. & C. 128:21. E. Questions and Problems. 1. About what period of time was covered by the Noachian Dispensation, 2. In the light of the "Rainbow Covenant," discuss this statement: The social conditions just preceding the flood were worse than they ever were before or ever will be again. 3. Compare Genesis 6:6 with Moses 8:25 and discuss the relative consistency of the two statements. 4. Wherein was the deluge a necessity, (a) Human? (b) Divine? 5. Tell of the time during which the family was in the ark. (a) Before it arose from its moorings. (b) While it floated. (c) While it was on Mt. Ararat. 6. What was the first thing done by Noah after coming out of the ark? 152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 7. In what way was the curse of Canaan a blessing to the human race? 8. Mention the earth-missions to which Noah has been called since his death. 9, Which of the missions of Noah do you consider the greatest? 10. Mention five memorable events of the Noachian Dispensation. LESSON II (Second Week in May) Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY SWAT THE FLY 1. A fly in the house should be just as much an evidence of careless housekeeping as a roach or bedbug, the latter are not as dangerous. 2. Begin with the fly's great-grandfather. 3. Avoid all exposed piles of rubbish, garbage or manure. 4. Disinfect garbage with chloride of lime or ammonia. 5. Use large outdoor fly traps near manure or garbage. 6. Use good screens all over the house especially in the kitchen; "allover" screens especially fitted to windows are better than small "adjustable" ones. 7. Be careful of poisonous fly paper. This is the familiar black sheet which is put into a saucer and covered with water. It contains arsenic and has proved fatal to children. 8. Be supplied with a fly swatter in every room and several on the porch. 9. Children can and should be trained to destroy flies. 10. A flyless house is possible; let everyone work to have one. LESSON III (Third Week in May) Literature JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY In our former lesson we dealt with James Whitcomb Riley as a dramatic reader. This lesson will be devoted to Riley the Hoosier poet, and Riley the poet of children. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 153 Riley once remarked, "You have observed that man uniformly sighs for the land of his birth. That is a hint from his Creator that he should not disown his native hearth. A man reared in a prairie country may go to live in a hilly section, but there comes a day, if his heart expands as it should, that he longs to see the prairies again. Myron Reed heard a shipload singing in the rain on upper deck at 2 o'clock in the morning as they approached the Clyde. And what were they singing? "Ye Banks and Braes of Bonnie Doon." Riley was very happy over the fact that he was born in Indiana, so is Booth Tarkington, I take it, and as a consequence these two writers together have given all the rest of us a very good idea of the man from Indiana. In representing his Indiana people, Riley has made use of the Indiana dialect, which is known as the Hoosier dialect, consequently he is called the Hoosier poet: HIS LOVE OF HOME "As love of native land," the old man said, Er stars and, stripes a'wavin' overhead, Er nearest kith-and-kin, er daily bread, A Hoosier's love is for the old homestead." Mr. Hitt, Mr. Riley's first publisher, says of him, "What he saw as a boy among the homely, wholesome people of Indiana he later transmuted into poetry, and consciously began to impersonate the characters that marshaled themselves in his fertile brain. Many of his well known poems were offered to Indiana audiences long before they got into print, and nearly all his humorous prose sketches were familiar to his friends here at home before they delighted audiences elsewhere." We are including the poem called '"Home-Folks" as an illustration of his love of home, but chiefly to illustrate the use he made of the Hoosier dialect: HOME FOLKS Home-Folks!—Well, that-air name, to me, Sounds just the same as poeiry— That is, ef poetry is jis As sweet as I've hearn tell it is! Home-Folks—they're jis the same as kin— All brung up, same as we have bin, Without no overpowerin' sense Of their oncommon consequence! They've bin to school, but not to git The habit fastened on 'em yit So as to ever interfere With other work 'at's waitin' here. 154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Home-Folks has crops to plant, Er lives in town and keeps a cow; But whether country-jakes er town,— They know when eggs is up er down! La! Can't you spot 'em—when you meet '"Em anywheres—in field or street? And can't you see their faces, bright As circus-day, heave into sight? And can't you hear their "Howdy!" clear As a brook's chuckle to the ear, And, allus find their laughin' eyes As fresh and-clear as morning skies? And can't you—when they've gone away Jis feel '°em shakin' hands, all day? And feel, too, you've bin higher raised By sich a meetin'?—God be praised! Oh, Home-Folks! You're the best of all "At ranges this terestchul ball,— But north or south, er east er west, It's home is where you're at your best. It's home—it's home your faces shine, In number your own fig and vine— Your fambly and your neighbors 'bout Ye, and the latchstring hangin' out. Home-Folks—at home,—I know o' one Old feller now, at haint got none,— Invite him—he may hold back some— But you invite him, and he'll come. Longfellow had been the poet of the common people and of the children. Riley greatly admired Longfellow, and strangely enough he stands at his side and with him lives in the very heart of hearts of the children of our land. In 1910, it began to look as if the end might not be far off, and from then on from many sides honors were heaped upon Mr. Riley. He had contributed seventy-five thousand dollars to the Indianapolis Public Library. In the entrance to that institution bronze tablets bear the following inscription: These Gates are the Gift of the Children of Indianapolis In Loving Remembrance of Their Friend James Whitcomb Riley In 1910 the Indiana Federation of Women's Clubs, acting on a resolution introduced by Mrs. Minnie Belle Mitchell, of Greenfield, had voted' to celebrate the poet's birthday. The school authorities, being in sympathy with the movement, instructed the GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 155 teachers and children of Indiana to observe October 7 as Riley Day. When the poet discovered that the state was serious about the celebration, he addressed a letter to the children of his home city, one sentence of which ran as follows: ''You are conspirators —every one of you, that's what you are—you have conspired to inform the general public of my birthday, and I am already so old that I want to forget all about it." On his way south, during the period of time that he was going to the south, in search of better health, he was in Cincinnati where several thousand children brought flowers to his reception in Music Hall. On his birthday, a month before, 3,000 children had marched past his home in Lockerbie Street, Indianapolis October 7, 1915, a message from Franklin K. Lane, head of the Federal Board of Education, came to Indiana, telling of the nation-wide celebration of the poet's birthday, by the school children of the United States. And later came this important proclamation. "He is the children's poet, and he has become such because he has so much of the spirit of the one who said, 'Suffer little children to come unto me!' All Indiana will rejoice therefore to see her children afforded an opportunity to place their heart-wreaths upon his brow and strew their flowers about his feet: "Now, therefore, I Samuel M. Ralstone, as Governor of the State of Indiana, hereby designate and proclaim the seventh day of October, A. D., 1915, the anniversary of the birth of James Whitcomb Riley, as Riley Day; and I urge all the people of the state to arrange in their respective communities, in their own way, appropriate public exercises in their schools and at other public meeting places; and that they display the American flag at their homes and at their places of business on this day, in honor of Indiana's most beloved citizen." Citizens of Massachusetts said that Indiana had done more for Riley than was ever done for one of the Massachusetts poets, that no Governor of Massachusetts had ever issued a proclamation asking that Massachusetts celebrate the anniversary of the birth of any one of its poets. One of the best of Riley's stories for children is "The Bear Story." It is a classic. The inconsistencies are delightful. It is in every way typical of the story that a child, with much imagination and the limited experience a child has, tells. Riley procured this story in the following manner, His little brother told the story, and it amused the people about the hearthstone so greatly, that they asked him to repeat it very frequently. When Riley began making up his program, for the platform, it occurred to him that as this story had amused practically everyone who had come to their hearthstone, it might amuse his audiences, and it did. 156 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Later he tried to leave it out of his programs, but his aidientes clamored for it, and would not permit it, so in the end it got into his books. Like all poets who write for children, Riley has a good many nature poems, because the normal child loves nature, and he loves the poet who loves nature. We include here Riley's: KNEE DEEP IN JUNE Tell you what I like the best— "Long about knee-deep in June, 'Bout the time strawberries melts On the vine,——some afternoon Like to jes' git out and rest, And not work at nothin' else! Orchard's where-I'd ruther be— Needen't fence it in fer me!— Jes, the whole sky overhead, And the whole airth underneath— Sort o' so's a man kin breathe Like he art, and kind o' has Elbow-room to keerlessly Sprawl out len'thways on the grass Where the shadder's thick and sclt As the kivvers on the bed Mother fixes in the loft Allus, when they's company! *Jes' a sort o' lazin' there— S' lazy 'at you peek and peer Through the wavin' leaves above, Like a feller 'ats in love And don't know it, ner don't keer! Ever'thing you hear and see Got some sort o' interest— Maybe find a bluebirds nest Tucked up there conveenently Fer the boy 'at's ap' to be Up some other apple tree! Watch the swallers skootin's past Bout as pert as you could ast; Er the Bob-white raise and whiz Where some other's whistle is. Ketch a shadder down below And look up and find the crow— Er a hawk,—away up there, '*Pearantly froze in the air!— Har the old hen squawk and squat Over ever' chick she's got, Suddent-like!—and, she knows where That-air hawk is, well as you!— You just bet yer life she do!— Eyes a glitterin' like glass, Waitin' till he makes a pass! GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 157 Pee-wees' singin', to express My opinion's second class, Yit you'll hear 'em more er less; Sapsucks gittin down to biz, Weedin' out the lonesomeness; Mr. Bluejay, full o' sass, In them baseball clothes o' his, Sportin' round the orchard jis' Like he owned the premises! Sun out in the field kin sizz, But flat on your back, I guess In the shade's where glory is! That's jes' what I'd like to do Stiddy fer a year er two! Plague! Ef they ain't somepin' in Work 'at kind 0' goes ag'in' My convictions!—long about Here in June especially!— Under some old, apple tree, Jes' a-restin' through and through, T could git along without Nothin' else at all to do Only jes' a-wishin' you Wuz a-gittin' there like me, And June wuz eternity! Lay out there and try to see Jes' how lazy you kin be!— Tumble round and souse yer head In the clover-bloom, er puli Yer straw hat acrost yer eyes And peek through it at the skies; Thinkin' of old chums 'at's dead, Maybe, smilin' back at you In betwixt the beautiful Clouds o' gold and white and blue!— Month a man kin railly love— June, you know, I'm talkin' of! March ain't never nothin' new!— April's altogether too. Brash fer me! And, May—I jes' '"Bominate its promises,— Little hints o' sunshine and Green around the timber-land— A few blossoms, and a few Chip-birds, and a sprout er two,— Drap alseep, and it turns in 'Fore daylight and snows ag'in!— But when June comes—clear my th'oat With wild honey!—Rench my hair In the dew! And hold my coat! Whoop out loud! Th'ow my hat!— June wants me, and I'm to spare! Spread them shadders anywhere, I'll git down and waller there, And obleeged to you at that! 158 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Does not that poem convince us that James Russell Lowell was right when he asked, "And what is so rare as a day in June?" Another poem in this class is: THE DAYS GONE BY Oh, the days gone by! Oh, the days gone by! The apples through the orchard, and the pathway through the rye; The chirrup of the robin, and the whistle of the quail As he piped across the meadow sweet as any nightingale; 'When the bloom was on the clover, an' the blue was in the sky, And my happy heart brimmed over, in the days gone by. In the days gone by, when my naked, feet were tripped, By the honeysuckle's tangles, where the water lilies dipped, And the ripple of the river lipped the moss along the brink, Where the placid-eyed and lazy-footed cattle came to drink, And the tilting snipe stood fearless of the truants wayward cry, And the splashing of the swimmer, in the days gone by. Oh, the days gone by! Oh, the days gone by! The music of the laughing lip, the lustre of the eye; The childish faith in fairies, and the Aladdin's magic ring, The simple soul-reposing, glad belief in everything, When life was like a story, holding neither sob nor sigh, In the olden, golden glory of the days gone by. Another poem that smacks of a boy's life is "The Old Swimmin' Hole;" "The Raggedy Man," and "Little Orphan Annie" have always been favorites of the children, as well as many others that might be listed. We conclude the lesson with Edgar A. Guest's tribute to Riley. Mr. Guest has seldom done anything so fine. It makes us see and feel Riley in a way that it is not often the good fortune of one poet to make us see and feel another: JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY (Written July 22, 1916, when the world lost its "Poet of Childhood") There must be rejoicin' on the Golden Shore today, An' the big an' little angels must be feelin' mighty gay: Could we look behind the curtain now I fancy we should see Old Aunt Mary waitin', smilin' for the coming that's to be, An' Little Orphan Annie an' the whole excited pack Dancin' up an' down an' shoutin': "Mr. Riley's comin' back!" Theres a heap o' real sadness in this good old world today; There are lumpy throats this morning now that Riley's gone away; There's a voice now stilled forever that in sweetness only spoke An' whispered words of courage with a faith that never broke. There is much of joy and laughter that we mortals here will lack, But the angels must be happy now that Riley's comin' back. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 15% The world was geitin' dreary, there was too much sigh an' frown In this vale o' mortal strivin', so God sent Jim Riley down, An' He said: "Go there and cheer 'em in your good old-fashioned way, With your songs of tender sweetness, but don't make your plans to stay, Coz you're needed up in Heaven. I am lendin' you to men. Just to help 'em with your music, but I'll want you back again." An' Riley came, an' mortals heard the music of his voice. An' they caught his songs o' beauty an' they started to rejoice; An' they leaned on him in sorrow, an' they shared with him their joys, An' they walked with him the pathways that they knew when they were boys, But the heavenly angels missed him, missed his tender gentle knack Of makin' people happy, an' they wanted Riley back. There must be great rejoicin' on the streets of Heaven today An' all angel children must be troopin' down the way, Singin' heavenly songs of welcome an' preparin' now to greet The soul that God had tinctured with an everlasting sweet; The world is robed in sadness an' is draped in sombre black; But joy must reign in Heaven now that Riley's comin' back. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Select some words and phrases from Riley's poems as evidence of the fact that he made use of the Hoosier dialect. 2. Are you pleased that he used the dialect of his native state, if so, why? If not why? 3. Is there any connection between Riley's popularity and the material he made use of. If so, what is it? 4, What details in the Bear Story mark it as a typical child's story? Name other poems that you know children are fond of. 5. Assuming that "Knee Deep in June" makes. You feel like June, what are some of the details of the poem that have combined to produce this effect. 6. Name other of Riley's poems that take us out into the open and help to appreciate nature. Do you agree with Riley in his belief that people's hearts naturally turn to the land of their birth. LESSON IV (Fourth Week in May) Social Service PROBLEM CHILDREN It is not an uncommon experience among families to be confronted with some behavior problem with the children. The problem may be that the child is failing in his school work, is truant 160 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE from school, is discovered taking money or property not belonging to him, or is asking for money from strangers on the street. It is a matter of real concern to families, school officials, probation officers, and social workers to decide what corrective measures to apply to unmanageable, wayward, and delinquent children. The subject of child behavior, however, has not been neglected by educators. On the contrary, the child and his educational development has been the object of study, research and experiment. This century has frequently been termed "the century of the child." During this period the emphasis of all educational and social programs has been placed on child development and protection. To insure his education, the state provides schools, makes attendance compulsory, and spends countless millions on an educational program. To protect his health, the schools, public clinics, and private agencies arrange for examinations and for needed medical care. To protect him from industrial exploitation, legislation has been enacted controlling the hours and nature of child labor. To protect him from deteriorating influences, and to check his own misconduct, the state provides juvenile courts, probation officers, and detention and corrective institutions. With such an extensive group program for child welfare, it would seem that all children would have a normal development. But like all group programs, there are individuals who are not reached by such organization. It is as necessary to 'fit the individual to the opportunity as it is to create the opportunity. The unusual child—the extremely bright child, the dull one, or the rowdy one—will not, without individual study and attention, adjust to a regimented, standardized, educational and social program arranged for the whole group. Only after a study of the problem child's makeup, his heredity, his environment, and all the factors that contribute to his difficulty, can intelligent, corrective measures be applied. The backward child is often misunderstood in the home and in the school. His backwardness is a source of annoyance to parents and teachers, so he frequently is forced to bear the burden, not only of his own lack of ability, but the added one of social disapproval. The result may be that he will become timid and shy, fearing to attempt even those things which are within his power, or he may become belligerent and spiteful as a result of the constant nagging and criticism to which he is subjected. To understand the backward child, a study should be made of the causes of his retardation. His backwardness may be a direct result of some physical handicap. Defective vision or hearing, of which he and his parents may be entirely unaware, may be the cause of his inability to keep pace with his school group. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 161 Diseased tonsils, enlarged adenoids, er some infection are in many cases the basis of retarded mental development. A malnourished child is likely to be listless and apathetic and his performance of his tasks at home and at school will be slow and unsatisfactory. Certain children with a glandular insufficiency who are sluggish and dull become active and alert after a period of medication. Too much emphasis cannot be placed on physical well-being, for the degree of health influences very directly the alertness, the endurance, and the character of the mental processes. There are, however, individuals who are in good health, who are slow and not very accurate at academic work. Nature has not endowed every one with the same or equal powers and abilities. The psychologists in recent years have made extensive studies of the nature of abilities and have devised tests for measuring ability and intelligence. The most commonly used tests at this time are the intelligence tests which measure native ability. The success of the performance of these tests is not influenced by the individual's education, but the tests are designed to classify persons according to their inborn ability. The person is classified as superior, normal, dull normal, or subnormal, according to the rating made. The subnormal is also reclassified making it possible for the psychologists to determine how much education is advisable, what type of employment the person should undertake, and if institutional care is necessary. But all difficult children are not either sick or backward. Healthy, bright children can be troublesome pupils, family bullies, and neighborhood terrors. The obvious explanation is that such conduct is the result of poor training, but it is not such a simple matter to determine in what respect the training has been faulty. A pampered child is likely to be demanding and troublesome, but children reared in homes where disciplinary measures are most strict and severe also get into trouble. Two children in the same family, treated in an identical manner, may act very differently, one having no difficulty at home or at school, and the other turning out to be the proverbial "black sheep." To understand behavior problems among children, it is necessary to realize that children are individuals just as much as are adults. No two children are alike, and no two will respond in exactly the same manner to the same set of experiences and similar environmental influences. Treating the child with as much respect and regard for his individuality as if he were an adult, is a rather new outlook for parents and school teachers to assume. It is on this basis, however, that constructive work with problem children is being applied. The child, because of his dependence and helplessness, has been made to conform to certain set forms of behavior. These forms have been designed by adults, embracing a theory of conduct which adults do not enforce upon themselves 162 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE very rigidly. The child is expected to be punctual, neat, clean, industrious, interested in whatever is put before him, fond' of the work which the adult gives him, ready to play only at the proper time, and prompt to leave that play, however crucial the moment, at the call of bed or mealtime. He is expected to be cheerful, obedient, respectful, free from outbursts of temper, jealousy, and selfishness at all times. In the child who is viewed objectively, and of whose conflicts the adult is entirely unconscious, lapses from this code are not understood and tolerated. The child's thwarted desires, his feeling of inferiority, his sense of frustration, are, however, often seriously upsetting, and will perhaps have an undesirable influence on his subsequent behavior. The child in an unstable family or in one whose income is uncertain and inadequate, has a difficult time to live a normal child life. He will have a tendency to substitute in some way the Jacks he feels in his own environment. The child who lacks the fundamental protection of a normal, stable home, becomes a prey to fear, uncertainty, and inferiority. He must substitute, for his natural love, objects, and he must defend himself from his unpleasant reality—perhaps with dreams and pretenses and substitute activities. Not that the child does these things consciously and deliberately. He can seldom explain what is back of his troublesome behavior. In his unconscious effort to substitute is found the reason why some child has secretive, sullen ways, why another takes things, or runs away, or tells falsehoods of wealthy relatives or fabulous parties he has attended. The adjustment of the problem child cannot be accomplished by a general program. He must be studied as an individual and the treatment administered should be individualized to meet his particular needs. He may need care in an institution, but the mentally normal child should be able, through the combined efforts of school, home, church, and welfare agencies, to make a satisfactory adjustment in his own home. The unusual child, the one either above or below average; should receive special attention in school. The superior child, if not directed, and if limited to the pace of the slower children, is likely to become restless and troublesome. In some of the larger schools, opportunity classes are formed for the bright children where they are permitted to advance as rapidly as possible. The slower children, too, should be placed in separate groups, or in a special school, as is the case in Salt Lake City, where the work is adjusted to meet their abilities. Emphasis is placed on manual work and vocational training and the academic work is arranged to meet their limited capacity. The child is thus better trained to meet the type of industrial life for which he is mentally equipped, and, besdes, he is saved the strain of constant failure and humiliation that he is under in the average school room. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 163 For the type of backward child who cannot be cared for at school or in the home, institutional care is often advisable. Many states have built homes or colonies or institutions for these children who never grow up. It is recognized as a state duty to provide such institutions, for here the children are trained to their full capacity, are kept happy in a simple supervised environment, are protected from their own helplessness, and are saved from lives of delinquency and crime. PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS 1. What community plan should be in operation to prevent the neglect of health among the school children? Z. Why is vocational guidance especially important for children who do not do well at school work? 3. What are the dangers of pampering children? 4, What are the dangers of a very severe disciplinary training?. 5. Why is it harmful for children and adults to be made to feel inferior and to be constantly thwarted? Reference: The Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 82- O2..: Egyptians used Petroleum in Building Pyramids _ The oil industry had its birth in the United States about 1858, when crude oil was analyzed and a well was drilled at Titusville, Pa. But our Indians, and the races before them, knew crude oil. Thousands of years before Christ, Babylonian and Chaldean masons used it in semi-liquid form for cementing the bricks of their towering walls says the Scientific American, and it was used in building the pyramids. Herodotus mentions a well from which three substances, asphalt, salt, and oil, were pumped. Oil from natural springs in Sicily was used in lamps in the Temple of Jupiter, at Rome, and the wealthy illuminated their homes with it. The ancient Chinese and the Persians used it for light and heat, and it enters into the preservatives of the Egyptian embalmers. I Special Offers for February Only The great economizer of time—money—effort—linen —is yours during this sale on terms that makes it pay its own way right from the start. Wonder "Junior" SIMPLEX IRONER THE BEST IRONER In one-fifth the time it takes to iron by hand, it irons children's dresses, men's shirts, table linen, towels, aprons, lingerie—your daintiest and laciest pieces. Linens ironed by the "Simplex" last many times longer than when ironed the old fashioned way. You simply sit comfortably before the machine and watch the pieces glide through without tiresome effort. It actually costs less to buy and own this wonder servant than to have a laundress do your ironing! Why deprive yourself when you can so easily place a "Simplex" in your home? Let us show you how it works and tell you more of its many advantages. $2.00 down—$2.00 a week UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service  JUST THINK! 15c and THIS "AD" will bring you 3 Packets of P. W.'s choicest Flower Seeds (10c pkt. Each of Giant Spencer Sweet Peas, Double African Marigold and Colossal Double Zinnias) and our new 1925 SEED 'AND NURSERY BOOK The most instructive book for the home owner, orchardist, farmer, and poultry raiser ever published for free distribution in the Mountain States. IF YOU DON'T WANT THE ABOVE SEEDS SEND FOR CATALOGUE ANYWAY. IT'S FREE! Porter-Walton Co. 42 WEST FIRST SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 50c per copy. AA Book of Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah'' By Mrs. J. Long, When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. To Our Patrons and Friends To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relief Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender. Sample: (Address) Relief Society Magazine, Room 20, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. 4 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  Courses. Zach an Event t Conducted by more than a score of America's leading educators, Graduate or undergraduate credit, in courses covering all the major branches of learning. A summer session for all classes; mothers, nurses, doctors, teachers, farmers and professional and business people. A summer school right at your door, that offers more advantages in study and recreation than any other in the world! Will remain for the full quarter. Several of these celebrities Special Faculty June 15 to July 25 Allee, Zoology, University of Chicago; Binzell, child psychology, Columbia; Boyle, Agr. Economics, Cornell; Carver, Economics, Harvard (quarter); Cowles, Botany, U. Of Chicago; Dykema, Music, Columbia (one week); Ellwood, Sociology, U. Of Missouri (quarter); Franzen, Psychology, U. Of Cal.; Geister, Play and Games, Columbia, (two weeks); Hinman, Dancing, U. Of Chicago (two weeks); Kester, Accounting, Columbia;_ Kilpatrick, Education, Columbia; Luderbeck, Geology, U. Of Cal.; Palmer, Nature Study, Cornell; Mrs. Palmer, Geology, Cornell; McCollum, Nutrition, Johns Hopkins; Roseneau, Public Health, Harvard; Sedgewick, English, U. Of British Columbia; Shearer, Primary Methods, Long Beach, Calif.; Turner, History, Harvard; Walker, Efficiency Methods, Washburn Mfg. Co.; Dr. Widtsoe, Agriculture. Special Lecturers: ard Griggs, New York; Shailer Matthews, U. Of Chicago, Divinity School; E. A. Steiner, Grinnell, Iowa; A. E. Winship, Boston. Ist Term: June 15 to July 25 2nd Term: July 27 to Sept. 5 Register June 12 or 13 Tuition fee: $25 Ist term; $35 full quarter Write fer catalog LOGAN, School Utah Agricultural UTAH. Edward How-: When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine x each the outstanding authority in his line. Nourishing-Delicious Easily Prepared Pork & Beans THE UTAH CANNING CO. "Ogden Since 1888" Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and? Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear letter Per Pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair..$1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable. All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Bo of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine IT takes just a jiffy to have a wonderful steaming hot dinner prepared for the family—just heat Pierce's Pork and Beans and serve! This dish saves you a. Great deal of time and trouble, and always delights your family and friends. Nourishing-Delicious Easily Prepared It takes just a jiffy to have a wonderful steaming hot dinner prepared for the family-just heat Pierce’s Pork and Beans and serve! This dish saves you a great deal of time and trouble, and always delights your family and friends. Use Pierce’s Hominy Pumpkin Table Syrup Vinegar Tomato Soup Tomato Puree Catsup Pork & Beans Pierce’s Pork & Beans The Utah Canning Co. “Ogden Since 1888” When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. XII APRIL, 1925 NO. 4 CONTENTS Entrance to Tomb of the Kinge.......... Frontispiece LDs: Grace Ingles Frost 165 An Easter Thought.............. John Henry Evans 167 Oliver Belnap Jenson 171  Peacock Feathers...................... H. L. Johnston 178 The Editor Abroad...... Alice Louise Reynolds 183 Child Feeding Jean Cox 189 Gifts..... Lucy Wright Snow 195 Of Interest to Women.............. Lalene H. Hart 197 Planning in the Home...... Hattie P. McGavin 199 "Peace, be Still'? Carrie Tanner 201 Notes from the Field........ Amy Brown Lyman 202 infouee......... A 20 meHenry Van Dyke 206 Guide Lessons for June 207 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—I5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS NOW IN STOCK  BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME} 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS, REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered RECENT ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Mt. Carmel, Utah, January 8, 1925. We received the individual sacrament set in good shape and, speaking in behalf of the people of the ward, are very well pleased with the set. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, January 11, 1925. We received the sacrament sets that the branch has ordered and we wish to thank you for the prompt service that you gave us in sending them. In regard to the trays we are also very much satisfied as to the finish and size. BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits for Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention 0 Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah aICE CREAM CANDY: CAKE PUNCHES deliciously different PHONE 45.5225 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple Block Salt Lake City  NEW GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request. For Ladies For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Light................ 95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight.... 1.25 No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light............ 1.25 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality.... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Flat.............. 1.45 No. 925—Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803—Extra Quality Ribb...... 150 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton...... 185 No. 990—Heavy  Cotton........ 2.50 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............ 2.00 No. 9107—Wool & Cotton................ 4.00 No. 850—Imp. Lisle. 2.50 No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton.... 4.50 To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 25c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States. Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70. Main St., Salt Lake City Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kid.  dies like them too When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine A Book of Poems “The Beautiful Valley of Utah'' By Mrs. J. Long, 50c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine. To Our Patrons and Friends To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relief Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender. 1069 East 21st South GUARANTEED L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR LESS MONEY We Save You the Agent's. Commission OUR SPECIAL OFFER With every order of $8.00 or over, you get a Fine Rubber Apron FREE. If you do not need Garments now. Get an order from your friends or neighbors On such orders you are entitled to the premium. Be sure and state whether you want NEW or OLD STYLE, MEN'S or LADIES'. LONG or SHORT LEGS. recommended for MEN and can be made with Double Back. My THE RELIABLE PRICE LIST FOR SPRING AND SUMMER, 1925 No. 50 Light weight bleach- *No. 60 Heavy rib. Bleached cotton. Flat weave $.95 ed cotton.................... 2.25 No. 51 Fine ribbed cotton No. 64 Fine lisle.................... 2.25 in ladies' new style No. 66 Fine mercerized lisle 2.75 ONLY  1.25 *No 68 Heavy weight, 1/3 No. 52 ae ribbed bleached 3.25 on 4 * No 54 Med. Ribbed bleach INDORE cotton............-.....-- 1.75 *No. 56 Medium ribbed No 94 Pure silk.................-..-12.00 bleached cotton........ 1.75 No. 98 Fine cotton with silk *No. 58 Heavy ribbed unstripe, ladies' new bleached cotton........ 2.25 style only.................00 1.95 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Easter By Grace Ingles Frost The bonds were riven, And the angels twain Stood in the crypt Where for three days had lain The corpse of Him Who suffered, on the cross, That all mankind might be Freed from the curse Which bound humanity; Stood, and the tidings gave— "He is risen." The enthralling bars Of death's cold sombre prison, Had sundered been By stainless sacrifice. The bonds are riven, And, the angels twain, One, who is Hope, The other, who is Love, Down from the courts, Where reigns the heavenly King, Again and yet again Return to bring Glad tidings Unto all created things; But only life attuned May hark and hear The message voiced by them, From year to year. The bonds are riven, And with time's recurring hour, When speak the angels, Every leaf and flower Comes forth rejuvenate From lethargy Of winter's dreamless sleep; The birds make blither music: And the breeze More gladsome sings Among the verdant trees. All nature With the ecstasy is rife. But what of man? He of the higher life: Sees he each year The miracle renew, And unto it responds As God would, have him do? Two women of Jerusalem at the Rolling stone in the Tomb of the Kings by which the entrance to the Tomb could be closed THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII APRIL, 1925 No. 4 An Easter Thought By John Henry Evans The other day I ran upon a capital phrase in an article by William Lyon Phelps. It was to this effect, that many people look upon God as "against us." And in truth this is so, even of persons who have accepted (without sensing it very well) the Christian conception of a universal Father. For it would not bea great hazard to say that probably many of us have grown to manhood and womanhood viewing Deity as a kind of expert Bookkeeper, setting down now in this column our good deed, now in that column our bad ones, and balancing them in the great ledger every evening, with a grim chuckle whenever the balance is in red. Of course, we do not say it this way even to ourselves, for He might overhear us. But we often act on this idea—so little has the much vaunted notion of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, in nineteen hundred years, got under the Christian skin. Nor is it at all surprising that so many persons should harbor this notion of God deep down in their subconscious selves. For usually, as children, it is not the goodness of God, his loving kindness, his unfathomable love for man, and his incomparable anxiety for our well-being that are held up to our imagination, but rather his power and majesty, his knowledge and wisdom, and his infinity—ideas, all, that impress us with the sense of unapproachableness. And as we grow up we are oftentimes oppressed by the power of the Unseen, as we think, in the whirlwind, in the earthquake, in the devastating wave, and, most of all, in the great leveler death. Besides, if we get in the grip of their teachings, who, without inspiration, seek to "find God by searching," we become imbued with the idea that he is impersonal, being as much in the trees and the grass and the flowers and the far-away stars as in the unchanging heart of man, and so lose all track of God's 168 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sympathetic interest in us here below. It is indeed a sad commentary on poor human nature that so many of our ideas should hark back to the Old Testament or to the vain philosophies of the Pagan world. * ok Ok Ox There can be no surer way for the average person to learn of God than to study the pages of the New Testament and the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith. First, however, let me establish a necessary connection. Is Chirst God? This question is answered in the gospels, but not, it seems, with sufficient clearness to preclude doubt in many Christian minds, even in whole groups of Christians. Jesus is there called "Lord of the Sabbath," greater than Solomon and Moses and Abraham, "the Son of the Highest," Creator of "all things," "God with us;" and he is represented as performing the works of God—forgiving sins, creating and preserving all things, bestowing spiritual blessings, raising the dead, and judging the world. He is also endowed by the sacred record with divine attributes, such as eternity, omnipresence, omniscience, omnipotence, unchangeableness, sinlessness. But it remains for modern revelation to put this question forever beyond the pale of controversy, as the following passage will easily show: "I am Alpha and Omega, Christ the Lord; yea, even I am he, the beginning and the end, the Redeemer of the world. * * * Surely every man must repent or suffer, for I, God, am endless. * * * For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent, but if they would not repent, they must suffer even as I, which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain. * * * J am Jesus Christ; I came by the will of the Father, and I do his will." This revelation was given to Martin Harris through Joseph Smith in March, 1830, just prior to the publication of the Book of Mormon. In addition the Prophet himself, to whom the Father and the Son appeared in 1820, in what is called the First Vision, declared that Jesus "exactly resembled" the Father "in features and likeness." And since Christ is God, it would seem, also, that he resembles the Father in personal attributes. So that when we discover the personality and characteristics of Jesus Christ, whether in the New Testament, the Nephite Record, or in modern revelation, we are disclosing also the personality and characteristics of God the Father, whom we worship and to whom we pray. * Of the attributes of Deity so pronounced in the Old Testament —power, majesty, anger, vengeance, fearsomeness, and the rest— there is little, almost nothing, associated with Jesus in the New AN EASTER THOUGHT 169 Testament. It is only after the resurrection that we find Christ giving utterance to the words, "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth; and these are not associated with the exercise of those powers, so as to impress us with a sense of terror. But of the tender aspects of Diety—love, gentleness, human sympathy—there is an abundance. And these qualities are reinforced in those passages of the Book of Mormon that deal with his personal ministry among the Nephites after the resurrection. Indeed, Jesus is here presented in an even greater tenderness and solicitude for the weak and helpless and sinful than in the gospels, for there is an absence, nearly complete, of the sadness, even weariness that seems often to have marked the Master's contacts with the unbelieving Jews. The comparative unsophistication of the inhabitants of ancient America drew out from him some very remarkable manifestations of tenderness and love for man. Let the following passage from the Book of Mormon stand not merely for this statement but also for passages to the same end from the gospels: "Jesus commanded that their little children should be brought. So they brought their little children and sat them upon the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst. And the multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him. And when they had all been brought, and Jesus stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they should kneel down upon the ground. And when they had knelt down, Jesus groaned, within himself, and saith, Father, I am troubled because of the wickedness of the House of Israel." ''And when he had said these words, he himself knelt upon the earth, and behold, he prayed unto the Father. And when he had made an end of praying, he arose. But so great was the joy of the multitude that they were overcome. And Jesus spake unto them and, bade them arise. And they arose. And he said unto them, Blessed are ye because of your Faith. And now behold, my joy is full. "And when he had said these worlds, he wept, antl the multitude bear record of it. And he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them. And prayed unto the Father for them. And, when he had done this, he wept again. And he spake unto the multitude, and saith unto them, Behold your little ones! And as they looked to behold, they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven, as it were, in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them." Accounts of Christ's ministry, both in the New Testament and in the Book of Mormon, are full of passages in which these aspects of his character are depicted. We call this his human side. In reality, however, it is his divine side, because it implies greater knowledge of the hidden springs of action in man, and of his nature than ordinary mortals exhibit, and they are a man's sympathetic understanding of man and his ways, which in turn, calls for and receives deeper compassion. Although we nowhere find Jesus 170 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE condoning sin in any degree, but rather condemning even the appearance of wrong-doing, yet everywhere. He shows the profoundest concern and love for the sinner. In the words of Joseph Smith, our Savior loves mankind although he hates some of the things they do, not looking upon sin with the least degree of allowance. This last aspect of his nature is revealed in that extraordinary passage about the woman taken in sin: "Early in the morning he came into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down and taught them. "And the Scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in sin; and they set her in the midst, they say urito him, "Master, this woman was taken in sin, in the very act. Now Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned. But what sayest thou?" This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. "But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. "And they which heard it, being convicted of their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last; and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. "When Jesus had lifed himself up and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? "She said, No man, Lord. "And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee. Go, and sin no more." It is clear from the incidents quoted here, which are characteristic, and from many others which might be given, that God is not to be "feared" in the ordinary interpretation of this term, but rather to be sought out when grief and troubles overwhelm us. Even the writers of the Old Testament sometimes rose to this great height of God's character, as for instance when the Psalmist, in that incomparable twenty-third psalm, thought of the Lord as a "shepherd" leading to "green pastures" and the "still waters," sustaining the soul ''through the valley of the shadow of death," as a "rod and a staff" to the halt, and preparing a "table in the presence of enemies" whereat the hungry and oppressed might be banquetted. Nor is God hard to approach. Always his hand is outstretched toward us ready, even eager, to help us at the first signs of desire on our part. Who can imagine a loving mother refusing to aid her distressed or erring boy whom she brought into the world in anguish and joy and tears, and whom she reared with such tender solicitude? Yet the love of the tenderest of mothers and her most affectionate concern for her son are hardness in themselves, compared with the infinite yearning of God for his children. Spring By Olive Belnap Jenson Oh, flowers of springtime, in your birth What message have you brought to earth? From your deep sleep beneath the snow, What called you forth again to grow? I saw you fade, no power of mine Could stay the ceaseless scythe of time, Nor from the north wind's sweeping breath Could take the icy chill of death. But now the call is not to die, "Within your grave no longer lie, By nature's laws forever true, Come forth again to life anew." We know not by what law, perfected, Was Christ, our Savior, resurrected, But life and death are in his hand— Through knowledge we shall understand. Special Characteristics of Utah Rural Life By Lowry Nelson, Director, Extension Division Brigham Young Oniversity As unique as the theology of "Mormonism," is the social system of the "Mormon" community. Of particular interest in its rural setting is the agricultural village. It harks back to the old world. It is unique in America. Outside of New England, there are few instances of its occurrence on the American continent. Of what significance is the village community: in Utah and other "Mormon" sections? Of: what social consequence is this system where the farmers live in a compact community, and go back and forth to their fields? These questions might be answered in large measure by inquiring into the reasons for the original settlement of these villages. While the influences which determined that the pioneers settle in villages are quite well known, it may be interesting to enumerate them here. In the first place, it was necessary that people be close together in order to protect themseives from the attacks of the Indians. In fact, most of our towns began as forts. Not until the Indians were finally subjugated were the people able to enlarge materially the community area. Another reason for the settlement in villages was the fact of irrigation. The canal systems were very limited, so that people tended to cluster about the source of irrigation water, the river. Those who settled very far from the river found it difficult to secure culinary water. A third influence might be that of the New England community itself. Many of the "Mormon" leaders came from New England, and were doubtless acquainted with that type of community, so that the natural thing for them to do was to establish communities comparable to those with which they were familiar. Then, too, the "Mormon" community was settled differently from those of other rural sections. They came in a group; whereas, settlers in other rural areas came one by one, and settled apart on their farms. The "Mormon" people had felt a strong community bond, because of their experiences in braving together the perils of the prairie in the great western exodus, and because the presence of a common antagonism had made it necessary for them to hang together in order to avoid "hanging separately." Finally, the people craved the services of social institutions, especially that of the Church. They wanted to be fed spiritually. UTAH RURAL LIFE 173 They had one motive only in coming to Utah; that of achieving freedom to worship God in the manner which they desired. Their motivation was not primarily economic. Consequently it would have gone "against the grain," if they had been separated from one another had been denied the privelege of frequently communing together in religious services. Furthermore, the leaders desired that the Church be a vital institution in the lives of the people, and recognized that in order for it to maintain its greatest effectiveness, it should be able to reach all of the people regularly. The village community afforded opportunity to accomplish this. Certain of the influences described have now ceased to be of any consequence. The Indians are no longer a menace to safety. Irrigation canals have been lengthened and extended, so as to permit of farmers living on their individual farms. Perhaps the influence of the river and the topography of the land still exert some influence; but the greatest present influence which is tending to preserve the village intact, as is the case in many of our rural communities, is the fact that it makes accessible to the group the modern social institutions. For example, a thousand farm people scattered about on individual farms, would take some of them so far away from the central church or school, or store, that it would very much handicap them. On the other hand, where they live in a compact village, all of them are within easy walking distance of the school, the church, the store, etc. Furthermore, the fact that they are in a village, makes it possible for them to unite on projects and secure modern conveniences for all at a cost which is relatively low, and which under conditions of open country settlement, would be prohibitive for the vast majority. The town of Escalante, for instance, bonded itself for $12,- 000 and secured an electric lighting system, of which about half of the families of the town are able to get the benefit. That is, there are nearly 100 families who have electric lights in their homes—more could have them if they wished—at a cost of about $120 per family. Private electrical plants cost in the neighborhood of $800 to $1,000. Municipal water systems are possible for the small village of 500 people, but if they were scattered about over a large area, they could not secure a private water system except at a considerable cost over what the community system would be. The same is true of sewage disposal. In short, the village can, if it will, supply most of the needs which a larger city is able to provide. Consolidated schools are possible here because of the village system, In the open country sections of the prairie, eastern, and 174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE southern states, consolidation is very difficult to achieve, becatise of the fact that farm roads are impassable part of the year, and children cannot be transported to a central school. Finally, the church can be maintained in the village, because it is more accessible to all of the people. Utah is fortunate in that so many of its rural communities are of one religious faith. One of the tragedies of present day rural life in America is that of the decline of the church, and many students of the problem assign the cause to that of denominational rivalry. Great financial burdens are placed upon the relatively few adherents of each competing church, until finally, it is given up entirely. The chances in Utah for the development of a rural civilization of surpassing quality, are exceedingly favorable. The solution of some economic problems must be arrived at first, and after that is accomplished, it is necessary to develop in the people on the farm the feeling that they are the "salt of the earth," and are consequently entitled to institutions and services of the same excellence as are those of the city. Nothing is too good for the farmer and his family. He is entitled to the modern conveniences of life—even some of the luxuries—and he should see to it that he gets them. His children are entitled to the same cultural home environment which is characteristic of the best urban homes. He is entitled to the best daily paper, the best libraries, the best schools, the best churches, which the Twentieth Century is able to offer. Adversity By Samantha T. Brimhall Fole\ Adversity, shouldst thou depart To leave me evermore, And mammon come to fill thy place. Gold heaping at my door That I should never want again, Or need to call a friend, Shall I dismiss the hidden hand Which thou didst always lend? When pride of gold shall fill my mind To hush the faith I feel, Drop I the threads and wind no more From God's eternal reel? Break not the strand and go away For this is Heaven's gold. Which brighter shines, Adversity In settings of thy mould, EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS…President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT. First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - -  Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Banicr Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Musi: Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - - - - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - -: - Auice Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager..... - -: - - Jeanette A. Hyor Assistant Manager - - - - Amy Brown Lyman , Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XII APRIL, 1925 No. 4 Some Social Problems in Country Life Our social problems do not seemingly diminish in this Twentieth century life of ours. The disposition to leave the country and go to the city is not growing less as time passes. Mr. Branson, professor of rural economics in the University of North Carolina said, in a lecture recently delivered at the Utah Agricultural College, "The city of Rome in its palmiest days was a country village compared with some of our large cities of today. At present there are seven million people living in New York City alone, and the London police have jurisdiction over eleven million people, while the London School Board presides over thirteen million." The disposition to congregate in cities depletes the country districts materially. In the state of Illinois there are fifteen hundred abandoned churches in rural districts, and in one state in the Union there are eight hundred abandoned churches of one denomination. Statistics go to show that one out of seven persons in New York City finds a pauper's grave, while one of every three persons in London is buried as a pauper. These statistics may call to mind the fact that within the last two years President Heber J. Grant and the members of the Council of the Twelve have strongly advised the Latterday Saints, wherever practical, to stay on their farms. The wisdom of this advice will be apparent in the light of the statistics quoted. The problem of rural life is not a greatly aggravated problem in Utah, at the present time, for the 176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE simple reason that Brigham Young had the vision to advise the people to build in communities where they could have the advantage of community life. Asa rule the greatest amount of dissatisfaction with rural life is not found among the people living in compact, well-organized communities, but rather from persons leading lonely lives on farms that are far apart. The Missionary Work of Young Women in Great Britain Somewhere from about 1897 until 1904, a group of young women were called from Zion to fill missions in Great Britain. Among this number was Counselor Jennie B. Knight who was one of the first. After 1904, the practice was discontinued, no doubt, for good and sufficient reason. There were doubtless persons who regretted quite sincerely that young women, as missionaries, had been taken from Great Britain, as many people believe that women as a class are very spiritual in their nature, and for this reason apt to impress others with a vital spiritual message. To any who had regrets, we wish to say that the discontinuance of sending young women from Zion to do missionary work, has in no wise stopped the missionary work of women as one may learn who cares to talk with the women of the Church in Great Britain. While in London we visited the meetings of the North London branch, and one evening attended the Relief Society meeting. One of the distinct thrills we had, while in London, was listening to a young Jewish girl, who has a beautiful voice, sing, "Jesus, Lover of My Soul." This same young woman is a very active member of the Relief Society. She told me that the gospel was brought to her by one of her friends. She and two of her sisters are now in the Church. In telling her story, she revealed the fact that the people of her own church were very much distressed at their leaving the Jewish church, and joining the Latter-day Saints. It doubtless took a great deal of courage on the part of these young women to sever their connection with their own people, and join the Church of Christ. We asked the three young women presiding over the Relief Society, how they came to be interested in the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints, and they each in turn said that it had been brought to them by young women who were their friends. A young woman-who had moved to London from South Africa, having won a scholarship at the Royal Academy of Music, was at the October fast meeting. We asked her how she come to join the Church; she replied to our question by moving her hand from her own lap to the lap of the woman who sat nexti to her and said, EDITORIAL 177 as she did so, "This sister brought me the gospel." One of the young women told me that she stoutly refused the invitation of a friend, who works at the same place of business, to attend meeting. "Why," she said, "I know a young woman the 'Mormons' have spirited away. Nevertheless," she added, "since you urge, I will go with you." Very greatly to her surprise. One of the first persons she saw when entering the meeting was the friend whom - she believed had been ''spirited away." She chatted with her friend, and the interest thus aroused led to her conversion and baptism. One young woman said that the opposition felt by her mother when she joined the Church, had disappeared because of the change for the better her mother had noted in her life. One young woman told me she had interested five young women who are now members of the Church. Dr. Kate Waller Barrett With a deep sense of sorrow and personal loss the women of Utah note the recent death of Dr. Kate Waller Barrett, for she was their true and loyal friend. For many years past Dr. Barrett has figured in all the most noteworthy councils of women. She has held many offices of honor and leadership not only in important organizations of women, but her talent and splendid judgment have been recognized by the men of the nation and she has been called by them to responsible positions and missions, some of them quite unusual for a woman.; The delegates from the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. To the National and International Councils of Women always received from her a friendly welcome and valiant support, which they were pleased to reciprocate when in her travels she more than once visited in Utah. Mrs. Barrett was the possessor of many natural gifts and a beautiful personality. She was a daughter of the South, having been born in Virginia, a kinswoman of Robert E. Lee. Her soft Southern accent and magnetic beauty fascinated her audiences whenever she graced a public platform. She stood for progress along all lines but particularly did she champion the cause of defenseless and betrayed girls, and the best years of her life were devoted to the establishment and maintenance of the Florence Crittenden Homes—these homes to be a refuge for fallen women where they might have protection and encouragement to regain and recover themselves. She insisted with eloquent and uncompromising earnestness upon one standard of morality for both sexes. The memory of so lively a woman and so chivalrous a friend will ever remain in the hearts of those who knew her. The intrinsic worth of her kindly deeds and her unselfish devotion to humanity stand forever as an inspiration for all womankind. Peacock Feathers By H, L. Johnston When Peter Newcomb paid off the mortgage on his little farm and showed the recorded deed to his wife, Mary, the world seemed a nice place in which to live. Their daughter, Caprice,-had just graduated from high school, with honors. Since the time Peter Newcomb had made his first payment on the farm, the little colony of Lennox had grown into a fair-sized town. Values had increased to a great extent, Peter's farm along with the rest. It was at an amateur play put on by The Lennox Dramatic Club, of which Caprice was a member, that the first tiny seed of discord was sown in the Newcomb household. Mr. Smithers, a great dramatic critic and owner of a theatre back in New York, while making a pleasure trip across the country, broke his big auto down at Lennox. As he would have to wait for repairs, he took in the Dramatic Club's performance, and at its close was profuse in his praise of Caprice. He was emphatic in his statement, that she should be given a chance to study dramatic art. He promised the Newcombs that he would be glad, very glad, when the course was completed, to give the girl a show at his own theatre. Peter and Mary Newcomb were pleased and proud when they learned that their daughter had attracted so much attention from as great a man as Mr. Smithers, and as Caprice had always been a very lovable child they promised her the big chance for a career and started making sacrifices to send her to school. Two years at a school for dramatic art, recommended by Mr. Smithers, made deep inroads upon the bank book of Peter and Mary Newcomb, but they made the sacrifice to supply the extravagant demands of their daughter without a murmur, although they wondered what she could be doing with so much money. Then, Caprice came home. It was a sad blow to the fond parents to quickly learn that their daughter had absorbed more than a training in histrionic ability. She showed by 'her pretentions that she was weighted down with an over-load. Of vanity and selfishness. The day Caprice came home she started finding fault. Her mother, who had always thought a gingham dress good enough to go shopping in, was crisply reminded that she looked like a tub, while good old father, who considered his blue denims a mark of honor, was told that he reminded the haughty, conceited Caprice, of a Rube supernumerary who took part in a show they had put on at the school of dramatic art. The little adobe home PEACOCK FEATHERS 179 caused her to shudder with horror as she classed it fit only for grain or to nest pigs in. Mary Newcomb took exception to the later classification: "Why Caprice! You ought to be ashamed of yourself to talk that way about the house your mother and father built with their own hands. It is our home, and that is a big word. 'Be it ever—" "Oh! I've heard that old gag before," snapped Caprice. The mother smiled sadly, then asked: "Are you going to the sociable tonight?" "T am not!" "Why not? You used to be crazy to go." "Yes, and I'd be a lot crazier now, if I mixed with that bunch of hayseeds." "Why Caprice! Mr. Peterson called today and asked me if I thought you would come and help them out with a little show the club is putting on. The girl sniffed. "They wouldn't know how to appreciate good acting if they saw it." "You won't go?" astonished. "No! Furthermore, I made my mind up a long time ago, that when I finished school I would make you and father sell off the old farm and take me to the city where I can have a chance to make something out of my training." "Your father will never sell out," replied the mother, sadly, "Gt is the only living he knows.", "Then I go to the city alone. There are producers who would jump to give me a chance." Mrs. Newcomb looked up in alarm. Tears welled into her eyes. She daubed them away and then asked: "What in the world has come over you, Caprice? You were so sweet and unselfish before Mr. Smithers swelled your head by telling you how good you could act. I don't know very much, Caprice, but I know that when a girl starts carrying vanity around in her make-up she is carrying one of the most useless weights in the world." Caprice smiled in contempt, then walked majestically over to the piano. Her fingers started idling over the keys and then charged furiously into Chopin's Polonaise in A Major. She stopped abruptly. "That was very pretty," said her mother. “What is the name of it?" "Oh! You wouldn't understand it. One must be educated in classical music to understand it." "Play something I know," begged the mother, "play, 'Swanee River.' " 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Caprice smiled wearily and left the piano. "That kind of stuff makes me sick," she said as she left the room. - For a long time the mother sat, lost in sadness. From time to time she wiped the tears away from her faded eyes and cheeks. At last she pulled herself together and started for the woodlot where Peter was cutting out the winter's firewood. * * * * Arriving at the woodlot, Mary told Peter just how vain and priggish Caprice was. When she mentioned the fact that a demand was to be pressed by the daughter that they sell the farm and move to the city, Peter grinned and said: "Mary, don't you worry about that girl running her old dad off the only place in the world that he cares for. You leave it to me. I know a thing or two about girls that you never figured I know. - Guess I'll be going down to the telegraph office for a spell. Want to send a message to a fellow." "Who pr "Mr. Smithers. The man that started all the trouble. I'm going to make him undo all the mischief he started." "How you going to do that?" Peter Newcomb smiled at his wife and slowly winked one eye. "Isn't Mr. Smithers one of the biggest show critics in the country?" "Yes." "What do you reckon got him where he is?" "Good horse sense, I guess." "You guess right, Mary. He knows human nature like a book. I know just what kind of a man he is, too. I'm going to put it up to Mr. Smithers." Two or three nights later Caprice had it out with her father and mother. That afternoon she had received a letter from the great Mr. Smithers himself, offering her a try-out for a new show they were getting ready for rehearsal. Self-esteem was fairly radiating from Caprice's face and bearing as she laid down the law to her father about selling the farm and taking her to the city. Peter Newcomb picked up the letter from Mr. Smithers and read it. "So you think you can act in his show, do you?" he asked. "Do I think I can? Why dad, Mr. Smithers knows I can. He is simply dying to get me into the cast. Now, are you going to move into town, or do I go alone?" "So you don't like the old farm? And you have never even called on any of your schoolmates since you got back home? Caprice, I really believe that you have the swelled head." PEACOCK FEATHERS 181 The daughter's black eyes snapped with anger, then without another word she flung out of the room and started packing for her trip to the great city. Peter Newcomb raised his hand and motioned for his wife to stay in her chair. "Now don't you worry one bit, Mary. She won't come to any harm. Let her go. I've made all the arrangements by wire." It was at the close of the first rehearsal of the great drama. Mr. Smithers, calm, all eyes and ears for the slightest mistake on the part of his company of players during the rehearsal. Called to his leading lady, Caprice Newcomb. As she walked proudly over to him he motioned to a seat which she took with queenly mien. From where they sat they could see the stage where stage hands were removing props and where a beautiful peacock, a part of the garden scene, used in the last act, was strutting: under a glare of light. He was spreading his tail to its greatest splendor: and, not attracting attention enough from his audience of stage hands, was emitting silly little squawks to call their attention. "Get out of the road, you silly thing," cried one of the stage hands running the bird off stage through the wings. Then, Caprice heard Mr. Percival Campbell, the greatest tragedian in the states say to the comedian, Billy Patchman: "Ah, my friend. For such a very beautiful bird to get the hook and be pulled out through the wings is tragic." "Well, he got what he deserved, didn't he? Trying to hog the whole show and still showing off after the curtain down. You know, Percy, that while he is a very beautiful bird he hasn't as much value as a barn-yard rooster. That wonderful tail of his represents the weight of his vanity; the load, the useless load he is compelled to carry through life. At that, he reminds me of some humans I know—" they were walking away from. The stage now, but Caprice could catch the rest of the sentence—"for instance, that 100 per cent specimen of egotistical vanity, Mr. Smithers calls his leading lady. Did you notice the airs? Oh, boy!" Caprice felt her face flush, then found herself looking into the steady eyes of Mr. Smithers. "Did you hear what they said?" she asked. "Yes, Miss Newcomb. I could hardly help it." "T suppose I get the contract," she added, confidently. "Well, Miss Newcomb, to tell you the truth, I don't think so. In fact, no." "Why Mr. Smithers! How can that be possible?" gasped Caprice. "We are generally plain speakers in the show business, Miss Newcomb, I won't break the rule, now. You're like that peacock 182 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they had to run off the stage. Vanity is never a good investment in a leading lady, especially when they are just trying to start out. Vanity makes a poor magnet to draw the money to the box office, also. That's the reason, Miss Newcomb." "Do you mean to say, that I can't act?" asked Caprice, angrily. "Just that." "You are the one responsible, Mr. Smithers. You told me back in Lennox that I could act." "You could, then,' sadly, "but since that time the load of vanity you've taken on disqualifies you for this show. I'm sorry. Good day." Peter Newcomb and his wife, Mary, were just starting to get ready for bed when there came a timid knock on the door and Caprice walked in. For a moment or two she stood looking from one parent to the other, then seeing two shining tears trembling on her mother's cheeks, a sob convulsed her throat as she gathered the mother in her arms and said: "Mother—daddy—forgive me for the way I acted. I've come back to—to—get rid of my peacock—peacock f-f-feathers." The Editor Abroad The Land of Scott and Burns EDINBURGH AND ABBOTTSFORD By Alice Louise Reynolds Edinburgh is a much admired city. There are people who call it the most beautiful city in the world. With such persons we have no quarrel, for while we do not share their opinion, we are perfectly willing to admit that there are only few cities that are equally beautiful. Within the week we heard a well traveled woman say that she would put Edinburgh next to Constantinople for beauty. Situated at the base of an impregnable rock wall, crowned by the Castle of Edinburgh, it has a most commanding site. Below this natural fortress stretches Princess street, which Thackeray said was "in truth a promenade for princes." A lovely park lines the street, one feature of which is a flower clock of great beauty, which tells the correct time. This street is adorned with statues of Scotch celebrites, chief of whom is Sir Walter Scott. Nowhere is there to be found a more superb monument to a great man. Becattse this monument is so rare, we shall relate a little of its history. It is a Gothic cross or tower 200 feet high. The central spire is supported by four arches which form a canopy, beneath which is a figure of Sir Walter Scott, sitting wrapped in a shepherd's plaid with his tavorite hound, Maida, at his feet. Its architect was George M. Kemp, a young artist who had traveled through Europe studying Gothic architecture and supporting himself by working as an ordinary mason. He was accidentally drowned before the completion of the work. The foundation stone was laid in 1840, and the monument was completed in 1844. Literary celebrities, such as Robert Burns and Robert Louis Stevenson, were in the habit of referring to Edinburgh as "Auld Reekie," because of the amount of smoke emitted from its high lands. But another day dawned for this city; when filled with pride, because of its philosophers, preachers, poets, and historians, which gave it much fame as a seat of learning, it assumed the name of the "Modern Athens." The name of Sir Walter Scott, it would seem, must forever be associated with Edinburgh. He was by his very nature an epitome of the qualities that have given Scotland its place among the peoples of the world. Edinburgh today has in it just such characters as one finds in The Heart of Midlothian; and Guy Mannering, Redgauntlet, The Antiquary, The Abbott 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE PRINCESS STREET AND THE SCOTT MONUMENT and Old Mortality, each in turn giving its phases of life in and near Edinburgh. Interesting as Europe is at the present, it is lacking in some features that gave much pleasure in days gone by. We recall distinctly that in 1906 our visit to Edinburgh was enriched by a Scotch regiment in kilts, that attended St. Giles Cathedral, on the Sabbath. The war changed many things. We are told that the Germans used to call the Scotch soldiers in kilts, "the ladies from hell." In any event, there is no regiment in kilts drilling before Edinburgh Castle, neither are they to be seen at St. Giles; and because of this, the landscape has lost in picturesqueness and in color. We have already referred to St. Giles Cathedral, which is one of the oldest as well as one of the most beautiful cathedrals in Scotland, and of peculiar interest, because it was here that John Knox, the great reformer, preached. The scope of our articles will allow us to note only two other matters, in reference to the cathedral; first, that in it one finds in bronze a lovely recumbent statue of Robert Louis Stevenson, built by readers of Stevenson, all over the world, and second, that in this church is a tablet that states that on July 23, 1637, a Scottish woman, Janet Geddes, struck the first blow in the great stuggle for religious freedom in Scotland, by throwing a stone at the Dean, an act which gave civil and religious freedom to her country. Everywhere one sees statues portraying the stern features of John Knox, whose personality has stamped itself on the life of a nation and a religious sect. The visitor to Edinburgh is shown THE EDITOR ABROAD 185 the house, one of the oldest in the city, where it is said the great reformer died on the 24th of November, 1512. The life of royal personages connected with the Scottish line of kings connects itself with the Castle of Edinburgh and Holyrood Castle. Like Stirling Castle one hears in connection with these two castles dark stories of plot and intrigue and crime leading to revolting murder. Holyrood Castle, the Castle of the Holy Cross, intimately connected with the Abbey of St. David, was dedicated to the Virgin and All Saints, in gratitude, it is said. The story is to the effect, "that the king, when hunting near Arthur's Seat, had his life imperilled by the charge of a huge stag; but a fragment of the Holyrood being miraculously placed in his hand, the stag fled appalled." The palace, now in only a fair state of preservation, was after the French style in vogue in the time of Louis XIV. Two rooms in the palace usually catch the visitor's eye, one that of Lord Danley, to whom Mary Queen of Scots was married on July 29, 1565, the other, Queen Mary's bedroom. In Queen Mary's bedroom one sees a bed with decayed crimson damask hangings, and the visitor is told that that is the bed of the queen. Good authorities, however, contend that Cromwell plundered the GREYFRIARS BOBBY \ 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE palace so completely that this bed must belong to a later period. The destruction carried on by the soldiers of Cromwell is hard to estimate, they were responsible for a fire that destroyed the old section of the palace altogether. But whether the bed is what it is represented to be or not, there are genuine relics of the time of Mary Stuart to be found in the bed room. Mary's son, James VI, of Scotland, and I of England, occupied the palace until he became King of England. This is not one of the most satisfactory palaces that one sees in a sojourn through Europe, and many people who see it are disappointed. Within. The week we have heard a young student from Harvard say that he was greatly disappointed in it. There is always a charm to young readers in the story of the beautiful Scottish queen, and this undoubtedly accounts for the zest with which Holyrood is visited. Before the Castle is a statue of Edward VII of England, a credit both to Scotland and the man in whose honor it was reared. As we pass along we must drop a word about the fountain at the head of Candlemaker Row. Here we see a drinking fountain surmounted by the bronze figure of a dog. This dog is known as Greyfriars Bobby. The following story accounts for a dog receiving this unusual mark of respect: "An old man died whose sole companion for many years had been a little Scotch terrier. When his master was buried the dog accompanied the remains to the grave and could not be induced to leave the spot. At last he took up his abode with the ground keeper, a humane and kind-hearted man, who daily fed the faithful animal. For many years 'Bobby' spent some hours 'daily on his master's grave, and finally died there." The late Baroness Burdett-Coutts erected the fountain to commemorate the fidelity of the dog. One of our last days in Edinburgh, we drove about with Professor Barker and family, in his car, visiting the University of Edinburgh, and hunting up houses situated on George Square that were respectively the homes of Sir Walter Scott and robert Louis Stevenson. We had found a very comfortable hotel just outside the city, and this gave to our trip the added luxury of driving in each morning along the beatuiful Scottish lanes, as well as affording an unusual opportunity for seeing the city. But the time had come when we must leave the "Queen City of the North." We did so by driving to Melrose Abbey where some affirm the heart of Robert the Bruce lies buried. The abbey was no doubt the most beautiful piece of architecture in its own day, and, before the guns of Cromwell wrought such havoc, entirely worthy Scott's lines in the Lay of the Last Minstrel; but at present it is very much of a ruin. The day had been full of interest, we had traveled the road THE EDITOR ABROAD 187 traveled by Scott after his return from the continent, whither he had gone in search of health. We paused where he paused, as he came in sight of the river and his home, for the last time, and where he paid his tribute of admiration to the Tweed and Abbotsford. We remained all night at the little town of Selkirk, where Scott was sheriff for a period of time. There we saw some of the brawny men of Scotland visiting together after the fashion Scotchmen are wont to visit; for there is a story told of two Englishmen and two Scotchmen, who were shipwrecked on an island. A passing ship coming to their aid, their rescuer discovered that the two Scotchmen had formed a Caledonian Society, while the two Englishmen would not speak because they had not been properly introduced. These Scotchmen at Selkirk, appeared to be getting a good deal of pleasure out of their association with one another. The next morning we went to Abbotsford, the eighteenth century castle built by Sir Walter Scott, as his own private residence. The building is not unlike many other eighteenth century castles, but the site selected is very choice, for only a few rods from the front flows the Tweed river, making its lovely, rich green banks part of the Scott estate. Behind the house and to the side we have gardens that bear evidence of the designer's hand, where beds of flowers add their touch of cvlor to a landscape of great natural charm. Entering the house we soon discover that it is a library and a museum as well as an abiding place for Scott's descendants. Walter Scott's home reminds one of his novels for one finds the ABBOTSFORD 188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE same things in his home that one finds in his novels. We should be greatly disappointed, I take it, not to find an armory there, but no such disappointment awaits us, for there is the armory with its swords and lances, the complete armor of the knight. Rob Roy's gun with its initials; pistols of Napoleon Bonaparte, and the iron mask worn at the stake by Wishart to prevent him from addressing the people. The drawing room contains presents given to Sir Walter Scott by many persons of renown. Among other things one sees a silver urn presented by Byron, an arm chair given him by the Pope, and an ebony writing desk which was a gift from George III. Adjoining Scott's library of twenty thousand volumes, many very rare, is his study. There one sees the chair that he occupied in the early morning hours when writing his novels. The dining room contains the chief paintings of the house. It was here that Scott was sitting when he passed away vn the 2lst of September, 1832. Scott is buried in Drybough Abbey, not far from his esrate. In taking him to his last resting place, it is said that the funeral cortege traveled the familiar road. When the horses came to the place they had so often rested for him to gaze upon his lovely Abbottsford, they rested again, for the usual time. Museums are very numerous today, but in Scott's time, they were not so easy to find. Articles of interest were scattered far and wide and were the property of private individuals. That is, taking things at their best, for very frequently they were destroyed. No one can measure the good Scott did in his great enthusiasm to save and collect things of historical and artistic value. We can forgive him for combining old doors in his home, such as the door of the Old Tolbooth of Edinburgh, more familiarly known as "The Heart of Midlothian," and the door of the old common hall of Edinburgh University, if it does make the house somewhat cluttered and patchy, in as much as it saved these old doors. Scott was president of the Antiquarian Society of his own country, for many years. It was he who insisted on the crowns worn by the Stewarts being taken out of the box, in which they had been hidden for years and put on exhibition. He also adopted as his own dress the Highland costume, hoping thereby to revive the fashion. It is given to only a few persons to live on as Scott and Burns are living on. In France two names pervade the entire land, they are Napoleon Bonaparte and Joan of Arc. In Scotland, wherever one goes he is reminded of Burns and of Scott, for they are most truly the patron saints of that land. Child Feeding By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education "Mute and still, by day and night, labor goes on in the workshops of life. Here an animal grows, there a plant. The wonder of the work is not less in the smallest being than in the largest." The appeal of a health-happy baby is irresistible. Every intelligent mother is ambitious to have her child in perfect physical condition. Within the past two decades much careful study has been given to this important part of the child's life as mothers, peditricians and welfare workers have been very anxious to decrease the death rate of this age. In order to accomplish this, great care has been given to the weaning period which is normally between nine and twelve mouths. The problem of gradual change from mother's milk to modified or whole milk is an interesting one. This adaptation usually stretches over two or three months and should be carried on so carefully that the child will not lose normal gain or become ill. Every variation in the child's diet should be looked upon as an intelligent experiment and the results should not be confused by attempting more than one slight variation at one time. When a new food is introduced give only a teaspoonful or two the first time and thus gradually build up tolerance for the new addition to the diet. We must think of the body as a working machine where the energy obtained through the combustion of food carries on the work required in the body. The circulation alone within the body would lift a child many times the height of a high building. Energy is also required for respiration which constantly demands energy through the combustion of food. Muscular and nervous tension also require energy, as do the chemical changes of converting one kind of food into another in the numerous metabolic processes within the body. The building up and tearing down of cellular and bony tissues also demand heat and energy which must be supplied by food. Because of the constant utilization of energy it is very important that this demand be met by an adequate food supply. It is generally conceded that meeting energy requirements is the first fundamental principle in nutrition. A child who is subjected to too much excitement and activity uses up food for energy at the expense of growth. Hard crying in children uses up proportionately as much energy as a man pitching hay. This may be shown by the following figures: A man at sedentary occupation uses 2,700 calories a day, while a man at severe muscular 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE exercises uses 4,080 calories per day. The following average of total energy requirments for young children shows the gradual increase in food requirements: Age in Years Total Calories 1-2 900 - 1200 2-5 1200 - 1500 One of the biggest problems in building up the dietary for baby is ease of digestion. As each child is an individual problem and digestion a daily one, great care should be exercised in controlling factors which contribute to ease of digestion. Irritability, fretfulness, delayed growth, bad breath and restless sleep, may all be attributed to some extent to lack of harmony in the digestive tract. The intelligent mother who is working with her nurse or doctor on the problem has the opportunity to absorb considerable information on cause and effect of certain foods and combinations. It has become customary during recent years to make some extra addition to the child's diet of the bottle-fed baby between the time it is two to six months old. With the nursing baby this addition is usually not made quite so early. The first addition is usually a half or teaspoonful of orange juice which is gradually increased to two tablespoonsfull, and this usually is diluted with a little water and fed between the regular morning feedings. Frequently a baby six months old is able to take the juice of one-half orange. While fresh sun-ripened tomato juice is valuable from the standpoint of vitamines, iron, and laxative qualities, some doctors object to its use because of the acid it contains. It is used in about the same proportion as orange juice. The canned tomatoes are less valuable than the fresh. In order to maintain the iron content of the body it is becoming common practice to feed babies a teaspoonful or more of spinach pulp mashed through a fine sieve which is usually diluted with the milk. Some doctors recommend the use of beef juice as a source of iron for the baby in the second year, but the high flavor of beef juices is disadvantageous. One teaspoon of egg yolk is sometimes used. The following table is interesting for comparison of the proportionate amount of iron in foods: Food Calories Grams of Iron 1 t. Of egg yolk 20 calories 0.000460 2 t. Spinach 5 calories 0.000750 2 tb. Beef juice 5 calories 0.001880 2 tb. Orange juice 12 calories.000035 Both spinach and orange juice are accorded special value because of the vitamins they contain. Spinach is rated high because of the comparatively large amount of vitamin B. Dr. CHILD FEEDING 191 Mary Schwartz Rose says that, next to milk, spinach is the most valuable food for children. Dr. McCollum gives additional value to the use of spinach because it also contains some of vitamin D which according to some recent experiments is necessary for bone development. Another food which is usually considered a medicine is cod liver oil. This has been used for many decades "for weak and sickly children." It has come into prominence in the light of recent experimental studies in bone development. These studies by McCollum and others show that one teaspoonful of cod liver oil has as much of vitamin D which is considered necessary for bone growth as one pound of butter. Cod liver oil is usually given twice a week, in ten drop doses, after a baby is six months old. Many mothers look upon cod liver oil as a very nauseous food but the taste is not usually objectionable after the first two or three doses. Mothers report that children really learn to like it. In this as in other good foods, objection is encouraged and stimulated by too much talk about it. As previously stated, a food easy of digestion for young children is milk and this is the most important food for good bones. Usually the child's diet is based on a quart of milk a day, although some peditricians recommend only a pint of milk. Studies made on the amount. Of calcium necessary for growth which have been made by Dr. Sherman and others indicate that a quart of milk is a safer allowance. The question of getting the child to enjoy this amount is sometimes rather serious. The milk should be of uniform quality, and proper care should be given to the milk after it reaches the kitchen. The portions should not be too large, attractive cups should be used and last but not least the child should be expected to enjoy it. Some children object to the odor of milk, and will often enjoy drinking milk through a straw when they refuse it otherwise. Usually if the two to three-year-old child eats alone there will be less objection to the bland foods suitable for him than if he eats with the family. Children are born imitators and like to eat and drink what others do. In a large percentage of cases when children refuse to drink milk, it is because ore or both of their parents or older children do not like milk and express their objections. Some of the quart of milk should be combined with other foods so that milk drinking will not be burdensome. The following foods may contain some of the required amount of milk: bread, cream soups and vegetables, simple puddings and custards (not too sweet), cereals will carry considerable milk as milk may be substituted for part or all of the water in making cooked cereals. 192 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Children should be taught to chew. Studies in children's hospitals and experience of peditricians indicate that children are very apt to bolt foods and that frequently children six to eight years old have not learned proper mastication. Good mastication is necessary for good digestion and both are important factors for a healthy digestive tract. The superior value of sweibach or toast over bread for young children is not so much in the change of starch to dextrin by heat as it is the change of texture which demands careful mastication. The piece of toast or crust given the baby in its second year is a valuable means for teaching mastication to even the young child. Toast, sweiback or crackers are about the only opportunity the young child has of learning this important digestive function. Bolting of food at beginning of meal is a very bad habit. After the first few mouthfuls the flavor of the food is decreased because lack of mastication does not stimulate the flow of the salivary glands which tends to bring out food flavors. It is well to think of digestion as being largely a matter of surface; finely divided particles of food well mixed with the saliva are softened or made into solution which are thus acted upon more quickly by the digestive juices of the stomach. Carefully masticated foods also stimulate flow of gastric juices in the stomach which tend to accelerate the digestive processes. Where two-year-old children become so hungry that it is almost impossible to keep them from bolting at the regular meal time, some' mothers give milk and cracker in the mid morning and a bit of sweibach and milk in the mid afternoon. As a rule it is not considered good practice to run the risk of putting undigested food in the stomach not entirely empty as this is apt to cause fermentation. The cereals highest in favor for children at this age are listed below: Steel cut oatmeal is the cereal par excellence for children, it should be cooked two to three hours. Wheat preparations are staples in child feeding and will cook in less time than oats. Barley flour and meal are also considered valuable for the child in the second year. Barley needs to be cooked well. Cornmeal is less valuable than the others, and should be cooked six to eight hours. Rice lacks ash constituents and is not specially good for the growing child except as a carrier of milk and eggs. When the child is fifteen to eighteen months old other vegetables than spinach, mild in flavor and high in ash content, may be CHILD FEEDING 193 used. Those usually taken with little trouble are asparagus tips, green peas, carrots and squash. These are usually rubbed through a fine sieve and are usually better taken diluted with a little milk. The average amount of food for a child fifteen to eighteen months old in terms of calories is: Milk—1 quart 675 calories Crisp bacon—1 strip 20 calories Egg yolk 50 to 62 calories Y% to | oz. Cereal 50 to 100 calories (%4 to % c. Cooked) Bread 100 to 200 calories (about 4 slices or almost 3 oz.) 2 tb. Green vegetables 5 calories Fruit juice (orange 2 oz.) 30 calories (4 tablespoons full) Total 1087 Authorities differ as to the number of meals for the baby in the second year. The tendency is toward fewer feedings than formerly. The following schedule has been found satisfactory: Breakfast 7 o'clock—Cereal, milk, toast, perhaps fruit juice. (Opinion is divided as to whether or not crisp bacon should be used). Dinner 11 o'clock—Two kinds of vegetables, milk, bread—potatoes not more than twice a week. Egg yolks twice.- week. Lunch 3 o clock—Milk and crackers. Supper 7 o'clock—Milk toast or cereal, fruit juice. Because the after-taste of milk is not good, it is safe practice to give a drink of water after the meal or a taste of mild fruit juice. This will help to avert dislike for this most important food. At the end of the two years rather large amounts of the foods already listed are given, and occasionally another piand food is introduced into the diet as an intelligent experiment in order to see if the child tolerates it. Opinions differ as to whether or not meat should be added to the diet other than possibly a little crisp bacon. The argument against it is that one quart of milk and egg yolk several times a week furnishes the. Required amount of protein. Additional argument is furnished in the belief that the higher flavor of meat creates a dislike for milk. Dr. Watson says, even "rats won't take milk if you offer bacon." Beef juice is considered in the light of a tonic valuable for iron content, while broths are valuable as carriers of cereals or vegetables and give variety to diet. Contrary to popular belief children of this age should not eat much potato. A small baked potato is permissible occasionally, although some of the best peditricians do not encourage the use of potato at all for young children. Better results in maintaining a healthy intestinal tract will ensue if only occasional small portions of potatoes are used and foods already listed are 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE relied upon to bring up the calorie content of the day's food to 1,100 calories. The mother anxious for further information on calories may read almost any of the food texts used in high schools, Mrs. Rose's Feeding the Family, and government bulletins. While less emphasis is placed on calories than formerly, the mother responsible for feeding young children should be able to figure in terms of 100 calorie portions in order that she may be somewhat sure of the intake of the child and be able to understand the doctor's formulas. Toward the end of the second year and during the third, the child can gradually have some complexity of dishes. These are milk soups, simple desserts, custards and junkets, plain cereal puddings, simple puddings of cornstarch, sego, tapioca and rice. All desserts should be kept mild in flavor and only about half the usual amount of sugar should be used. Dried fruits cooked without sugar may be used as valuable additions as they are high in fuel value and also high in ash. Some green leaf vegetables should be used daily in order to supply vitamines and ash. Easily digested root vegetables in form of puree may be used. Not much of any meat need be used. The general principle in feeding children during the second and third year is to gradually work toward more solid foods, develop taste for a somewhat wider variety of bland flavored foods and establish good digestion. In order to succeed in the latter, meal time for the child must be pleasurable, foods must not be eaten too rapidly and only foods suitable for the age or meal should be given. It is a sane and safe rule not to give food to a child of this age unless you feel that it is good for him. It is not good hygienically to cause distress in the intestinal tract. Persistent distention or irritation is apt to cause intestinal trouble later in life. During the four to five-year period the same simple foods should be used with only a few additions. The main sources of energy and growth should be obtained from foods listed above with possibly a small portion of meat once a day. In addition to orange juice other fruits may be used once a day. Maintenance of good food habits and healthy digestion is very important. This will be more easily accomplished if the child does not always eat with the family. Candy and ice cream should not be allowed between meals, and very little should be allowed at the end of the meals. The healthy child is not the constipated one. Careful selection of food as well as regular habits will tend to establish regularity. The foods most used for this are orange juice, tomato juice, if it can be borne, prune juice or prune pulp, pear or peach juice,. CHILD FEEDING 195 carrots, peas, squash, cornmeal, oatmeal and barley. Spinach is also very valuable for constipation. Mrs. Rose suggests the use of mineral oils for constipation. It is very important that meal times should remain regular. Even slight deviations interfere with appetite and digestion. While all this detail seems burdensome to the mother with several little ones, the importance of it all will not be discredited if the objective is not mere meal preparation, but strong minds in strong bodies for the citizens of tomorrow. Gifts Lucy Wright Snow "Behold, thou hast a gift, and blessed art thou because of thy gift. Remember it is sacred and cometh from above." There are many God-given gifts given to man by the Spirit of God. To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby," D. & C. 46:12) and also that men may not be deceived by the power of the evil one. Man should seek the best gifts, and should exercise the gifts given him, for in asking and receiving he finds a cooperation with God and places himself in condition to be used by him as an instrument in the furthering of his work; also man places himself on a better footing for working out his own salvation, which will always be administered according to his faith and effort. The Lord is ever ready to bestow his gifts upon those who will seek for them and make consistent use of them. He has said he is bound to bless those who seek him and keep his commandments, (D. & C. 82:10) and who are in cooperation with him and walk in obedience to his laws. His children thus will be able to assist in carrying on his work to perfection, and by exercising their gifts they will be able to prepare themselves for an exaltation in his kingdom, thereby gaining the greatest gift of all gifts—eternal life. (D. & C. 14:7). Some are not willing to receive the gifts that are generously held out to them, and many blessings are lost to them and to those to whom they might minister. (D. & C. 88:33) 'For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift." It is interesting to note the words of the prophet Moroni in his farewell address to the Lamanites, delivered, 420 A. D., just 196 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE previous to the sealing up of the Book of Mormon records, which 1400 years later he revealed to Joseph Smith; and which were translated by the gift of God. He spoke of gifts as follows: "And again, I exhort you, my brethren, that ye deny not the gifts of God, for they are many; and they come from the same God. And there are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the Spirit of God unto men, to profit them. For behold, to one is given by the Spirit of God, that he may teach the word of wisdom; and to another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; and to another, exceeding great faith; and to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; and again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles; and again, to another, that he may prophesy concerning all things; and again, to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits; and again to another, all kinds of tongues; and again, to another, the interpretation of languages and of divers kinds of tongues. And all these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ; and they come unto every man severally, according as he will." (B. Of M., Moroni 10:8-18.) John Milton prepared himself and sought the best gifts, and received inspiration to produce "Paradise Lost." Solomon sought the best gifts, received them and exercised them. God was pleased with him because he asked for wisdom, and the Lord endowed him heavily. Indeed he is known after centuries of time as Solomon the wise. Joseph Smith sought of God the best gifts, and received the gift of translation with the result that to the world has been given a history of America's ancient inhabitants which had been buried for centuries. After the Church was organized, in 1830, its female members prepared themselves and sought the best gifts, receiving one of these blessings, in 1842, the women's Relief Society. The Lord will reveal truths by the Holy Ghost, the interpreter, promised by the Savior. But they must be sought for. Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart Will you suggest a way to remedy a croquett mixture that ls too soft to mold?. Soften some granulated gelatine in a little cold water, dissolve over hot water, add to the mixture and chill. It can then be molded easily. When the croquetts are cooked the gelatine will soften and they will be moist and creamy inside. Croquetts are best fried. In deep fat or they may be baked, if there is not enough fat. What can I do with mayonnaise that was curdled? The usual cause of mayonnaise crudling is that the oil is added too fast, or it may be the ingredients are too warm. Beat an egg yolk and add slowly to the mixture which has curdled, being careful to keep it cold. When all is beaten in smooth, add the remainder of the oil. The ingredients for mayonnaise should be kept very cold and combined slowly in order to make a smooth, thick dressing. How can I utilize left-over biscuits? The easiest and quickest way is to put them in a dripping pan, pour just enough hot water over them to moisten well, cover with lid or same sized pan. Put in the oven and heat. The steam will soften them and they will be light and fluffy as fresh ones. Another way is to beat an egg, add one half cup milk, two tablespoons sugar and a dash of nutmeg or cinnamon. Cut the biscuits in halves, dip in the egg mixture and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. Serve as toast. How can I use cream that I have tried to whip, but have been unsuccessful? Chill the cream, separate an egg and chill the white. Whip the cream and the egg together and note results. Cream that is really too thin to whip, but has been beaten can be used for sauce by cutting marshmallows into small pieces and allowing them to dissolve and blend in the cream for several hours before using. Lettuce may be kept crisp for many days if it is kept covered with a pan or bowl; and an excellent way to keep celery crisp is to clean it and place in a two quart fruit jar and partly screw the lid on—Mrs. W. J. I., Salt Lake. (Note) They should be kept where it is very cool, or they might mold. A very good and absorbent mop cloth can be made from 198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE several cotton stockings. Sew them together and quilt with long stitches on the sewing machine.—Mrs. L. S. B., Garfield, Utah. To avoid wasting the small pieces of toilet soap, when taking a new bar, slightly moisten both the old and the new pieces, press small pieces firmly into the new bar and they will stick together like glue—Mrs. E. A. N., Fountain Green, Utah. (Note) Pieces of laundry soap may be put in a cup for that purpose and dissolved into a soft soap and used for many purposes. They may be put into a soap-shaker and used especially for dishes. If you haven't a soap-shaker, buy one for ten cents and save soap and time. Often envelopes unsealed come to you in the mails. Cut off the gummed portion of these and save for mending torn music books or magazines, sealing packages or labelling your canned fruits—Mrs. G. R. Duncan, Arizona. A string wet with kerosene and tied around sugar cans or barrels, latd cans, or anything that attracts ants, will keep them away. The string should be moistened every two or three days.— Mrs, A. L., Redmond, Utah. Living on a farm where I have plenty of chickens and eggs, I find it a help also a money saver to hang a flour sack near the stove and when there are any egg shells, put them into the sack, let dry and crush. Put away to feed chickens in the winter. They take the place of oyster shells. Chickens do not really need them in the summer.—Mrs. T. T. M., Drummond, Idaho. Planning in the Home By Hattie Parkinson McGavin There has, perhaps, never been a time when a greater responsibility has devolved upon the house wife than in the present generation. Her sphere is not confined to the home exclusively but to everything of a social and public nature that her environment includes. With these added obligations comes a demand for her time and energy which heretofore has been devoted to the home entirely. Only she who is skilled in the management of home duties can do what society expects of her, and at the same time do justice to her home. This dual obligation can only be competed with by careful planning—not in one phase only but in every phase of her work. Men build a house, but a woman must make it a home in which the life of each individual member is made easier; where health is given to tired bodies and nerves, and where the mind is refreshed. The home is the most important factor in. The nation's life. To accomplish its object, the home requires the most careful planning. It must have a sense of harmony that will bring a feeling of pleasure to all who come within its circle. It must have order and individuality. It can not be just like every other home, but it must express uniquely the people who live in it. All in all, the home must be a place where human beings grow and develop. Since the business of the home has become largely a woman's affair she must be taught how to manage it, just as a scientific worker is taught his profession, or that home will not function properly in society nor accomplish that which the home alone is destined to accomplish. The home planning must be adapted to the climate, place and kind of life of which it is to be a part. A sound house plan is fundamental to the economics of the home. A common impulse toward rational living has made is necessary to simplify the paraphernalia of existence, to eliminate useless tasks and trappings and to arrange the remaining necessities into an orderly scheme of household life. The planning and arrangement of the modern home is an expression of this point of view. The organization and plan of the home must fit the organization of home activities. There must be an exact adjustment between worker and the work place. There must be no friction between housekeeping and house structure. The interior space and equipment must fit perfectly the operation of the home. Every foot of space must count to smoothness of the house work and 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE effectiveness of the whole interior or the house plan will not save the time, energy and inconvenience that it otherwise would do. A well considered and conscientiously planned floor space is necessary. To release a larger share of time and money for culture and good citizenship, the first essential for home makers is a wise budgeting and spending of the family income. This is one of the most important factors in the partnership of married life. Man has long considered the provision of a family income his absolute duty when he marries. Woman should just as conscientiously feel it her duty to wisely and economically administer this income. The central idea of the budget is balancing the income with the outgo which is an orderly control over finance. This prevents extravagance and the resultant—contraction of debts. No matter how large or how small the income, the budget is simply a pattern for one's spending. It bears the same relation to the income that a paper pattern does to the material of which a dress is to be made. Instead of haphazard, hit or miss expenditure, resulting in incidental or accidental saving, the budget plans, compels the family to face the question of saving and investment before any money is spent. Its only restriction is a fundamental one, that of compelling the family to establish a standard of living within the income. It thus becomes an essential aid to orderly housekeeping and fosters the idea of thrift and economy. No man would continue in business with a man who spent recklessly the capital which he furnished, yet how many house wives are continually doing this same thing. From time immemorial, economy and thrift have been preached, but a wrong interpretation has been given these terms. In the public mind they have been interpreted as “closeness," even to a point of stinginess. Today the realization is steadily growing that thrift and economy mean not doing without, but avoidance of waste and extravagance, through wise budgeting and spending. The value and importance of time is worthy of consideration, hence we must plan to make the most of it. How much needless worry and work would be saved if one knew exactly what to do and when and how to do it. A daily schedule of tasks to be accomplished is the one remedy for this. If one knows not what tasks she is going to do, how will she know when they are accomplished, or how can she plan for any leisure time? How often one hears the remarks, ''Really I don't know what to do first," or "What shall I do next?" These remarks tell better than anything else that the speaker is not systematic in her work, nor does she plan it. The worry, excitement and unnecessary work of a daily PLANNING IN THE HOME 201 routine continuously such as this, is more fatiguing, tiring, and causes more worry, than the actual doing of the work. If the modern house wife is to do her part in the partnership of married life, and at the same time contribute her share to society, she must plan every phase of her activity, for so much is expected and demanded of her that she can not cope with her present responsibilities unless she can so manage that she can save money, time and energy. Home-maker is the last word in the world's greatest business. “Peace, be Still” O Sea of Life, uncharted main, How may we safe thy harbor gain? When rising storms beset our fears, And sharp the slippery shoal appears, Speak to thy soul, its fears to calm And soothe as if with magic balm, These blessed words thy heart to fill— Peace, O troubled soul, "Peace, be still." When lowering clouds make dark our sky, And hope as if with wings would fly, When angry waves beat stern and strong Like fiercest conflict, right with wrong, Send to thy soul, hope to sustain And burning anger to restrain, These gentle words to guard thy will— Peace, O troubled soul, 'Peace, be still." Oh, could our Life's uncharted sea, When storm-tossed like the Galilee, Be calmed by those sweet words divine— "Peace, be still," O soul of mine, Then would we reach the harbor blest, When Life's bright star shines in the west With promise by its gleaming ray— A guide to light our onward way. Carrie Tanner. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Divisions in Stakes and Wards. Where a stake or ward is divided, the General Board advises that such stake or ward divide the funds on hand at the time of the change, proportionately with the new division. In most cases the funds are divided equally, even though the new group is smaller than the old one. At the October, 1924, conference, President Williams recommended that in case of division the mother stake or ward from which the new group is taken, start the new stake or ward out in business. Jordan Stake. Under the direction of the Jordan stake Relief Society, a Christmas morning program and pageant was given at the Sandy Recreation Hall at 6 a. M. Bells began chiming at 5:30 and the caroling by the "Girls' Chorus" outside the building was most inspiring. The hall was tastefully decorated with the Relief Society and Christmas colors, and hundreds of candles illuminated the building. The pageant which portrayed the birth of the Savior was very instructive and impressive, and the costumes and scenery were in keeping with the theme. The special addresses were given by individuals who had visited Palestine. In spite of the very severe weather, the large hall was crowded by representatives from all parts of the stake who went away filled with the real Christmas spirit and the feeling that they had been well paid for the effort made to be present at this early Christmas hour. Utah Stake. A Christmas pageant in which two hundred people participated, given by the Utah stake Relief Society carried the spirit of good will to the community. Spirit of Christmas was enthroned high above the stage erected in the tabernacle. Under her direction the nations of the world came and showed how Christmas affected their lives and homes. Music appropriate to each nation was furnished by the stake Relief Society choir of 73 voices under the leadership of Allie W. Clark. The concluding incident was the entrance of America representing the "Spirit of Good Will." At her call thirty-five Boy Scouts came and took from her horn of plenty messages of good will for each member of the audience. Mrs. Nellie S. Thornton of the Utah stake Relief Society, Prof. E. H. Eastmond and Miss NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Louise Dastrup, of the Brigham Young University, assisted in staging this successful Christmas entertainment. Christmas Cheer for Indians. Ibapah, Utah. The General Board of Relief Society assisted the teacher of the Goshute Indian School at Ibapah, Utah, in making Christmas cheerful for the group of Indians who live at this sub-agency. There was a Christmas tree and an appropriate program. The teacher in charge wrote the following letter to the General Board regarding the occasion: "I must tell you how much we appreciate the splendid assistance rendered by the Relief Society of the 'Mormon' Church. Please extend to the Board my sincere thanks. Their assistance has given me a very great pleasure, for they have helped to send a ray of sunshine into the sordid lives of the Goshute Indians. I wish you might have seen the eager faces as they received their gifts. The little girls with shining eyes hugged their dollies to their breasts, while the small boys showed their delight by blowing loudly on their harps, and running their toy wagons up and down the room. But none were happier than the large girls who constantly peeped into their mirrors, or the little men who sported their handkerchiefs with the "Let-er-Buck" where all might read. JI am hoping that all good things may come to the Relief Society of the 'Mormon' Church during the coming year." St. George and Parowan Stakes. The Relief Societies of the St. George and Parowan stakes joined the local Church authorities in carrying out a Christmas program for the Indians of southern Utah. Beef, flour, potatoes, etc., were given from the Bishop's Store House, in St. George, for the big Christmas pow wow and feast and the Relief Society women prepared special gifts at their homes for everybody. In Parowan stake special provisions were given liberally by the stake presidency, and the Relief Societies gave toys to the children and gifts to the older Indians. Included among the latter were eight comfy layettes for the prospective mothers. Grant Stake. The following Relief Society ward conference program was used very successfully in 1924: 12:30 p.m. Officers' Meeting. Questionnaire, conducted by Stake President. Ward Organization, Stake Officer. 2:00 p. M. General Session. Preliminary Exercises. (Second song conducted by Stake Chorister.) 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Presentation of officers and teachers: General officers sustained as a group, without mentioning names. Stake officers sustained as a group without mentioning names. Ward officers, visiting teachers, and class leaders sustained in groups, naming the individuals. President's Report: Ward activities. Items from Annual Report, including comparisons with last year's work. (Report may be given either by president or secretary.) Value of Educational Work in Relief Society, Ward, Officer. Relief Society Message, Stake Officer. Music. Spiritual 'Welfare, Stake Officer. Remarks, Bishopric. Music. Benediction. Mothers' and Daughters' socials have been established in the wards of Grant stake, with a view of bringing mothers and daughters in closer contact socially and spiritually. All the mothers, and the daughters over twleve years of age, are meeting occasionally, with the different women's organizations acting in turn as hostess. The programs consist of not less than three and not more than five numbers, the remainder of the time being devoted to visiting and sewing, and general relaxation. Each person contributes 10c at each social to defray the expense of refreshments. At the first social held in each ward, in September, the ward president of each auxiliary was invited to give a five-minute talk on the winter's work of her organization. It has been suggested that at the socials to be held in May, 1925, that the mothers and daughters entertain the fathers and sons. South Sevier Stake. On January 29, the South Sevier stake Relief Society gave a dancing party in the South Sevier stake pavilion. Preceding the dancing there was special singing by Elsinore ward and a one-act play given by the Annabella ward. A very sociable time was enjoyed by about three hundred fifty people. Some of the wards of this stake have been very successful in gathering their membership dues, the collection being made in connection with a social. The visiting teachers distributed to every married woman in the ward an envelope containing an invitation to the party and a very tactful reminder of the annual dues. Mrs. Trena M. Svedine, a teacher of the Elsinore ward Relief Society, reports that her district has not missed a single visit in the thirty years she has acted as teacher. If she has been unable to visit she has called some one else to take her place. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Raft River Stake. The wards of this stake are so scattered and cover such a large territory that over one thousand miles have been covered by the Relief Society presidency and board members in visiting the different societies. This does not include the number of miles necessary to travel each month to attend monthly union meetings. All of the ward societies in the stake have been visited at least once and some three times during the year. Most of the visiting is done in the summer and fall months, as it is quite difficult to get to the different wards in the winter and early spring, due to inclement weather and bad roads. The stake genealogical society planned a proxy excursion to the Logan temple and the Relief Societies of the stake contributed $73.75 to this cause. The stake social service leader has been very fortunate in getting in touch with the director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene who has promised a health conference in the Spring, as soon as weather and roads will permit. The members are thankful for the Sheppard-Towner provision which has made this possible. In Memoriam Califorma Mission. Mrs. Louisa Jones, former president of the Relief Societies of the California mission passed to the great beyond, October 29, 1924. At the time of her death she was living with her daughter, Mrs. C. M. Kensey, at Mesa, Arizona. Sister Jones was a woman of great faith, keen intellect and unbounded energy and devotion to any cause she chose or was appointed to labor for. She was charming and interesting as a companion and much beloved in the California mission where she traveled extensively in the interest of Relief Society work. Mrs. Jones was born in Illinois, in 1850, and came to Utah in 1875. Her experience in Church work was most varied. At different periods in her life she served in the following capacities: Sunday School teacher, 34 years; Relief Society ward teacher, ward Society president. Relief Society stake secretary, 12 years; stake counselor in Relief Society, member stake Sunday School union board; counselor Y. L. M. I. A.; teacher in Religion Class; teacher, Parents' Class; stake genealogical supervisor and teacher, and president of Relief Societies of California mission. Mrs. Jones was well known also in educational work. She was graduated from the University of Deseret in 1882. In 1897 she was graduated from the kindergarten course at the Brigham Young University. She later went to Thatcher, Arizona, to take charge of the kindergarten work in the L. D. S. Academy there, and also to serve as matron of the school. Mrs. Jones did most effective work in the interest 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of genealogy, and for two years supervised this work in the California mission. In 1919 she was appointed president of the Relief Society of this mission, but gave up the work in 1921 on account of ill health. For a time she worked in the St. George temple, but when this was possible no longer sne removed to the home of her daughter in Mesa, Arizona. Mrs. Jones was the mother of eight children. Teton Stake. Another pioneer has passed to the great beyond in the person of Martha T. Little on November 25, 1924. She was born in 1843 at Splashburg, Lancashire, England, and first heard the gospel when she was six years old. She emigrated to America in 1854 and remained at St. Louis for one year. Then, together with her mother and sister, she walked much of the way to Salt Lake City. In 1862 she was married to George E. Little, and there were born to this couple fourteen children, seventynine grandchildren, and ninety-eight great-grandchildren. They resided in Salt Lake City until about 1889, then moved to Teton Basin, Idaho, where Mrs. Little was called to be first counselor to the president of the first Relief Society organized at that place. This position she held until September, 1895, when she was called to preside over the first Relief Society organized in the Leatham ward of the stake. In 1909 she was called to be a member of the stake board of Relief Society and held this position until she moved to Salt Lake City to do temple work in 1924. She was laid to rest by the side of her husband in the shadow of the Teton Peaks in the valley she loved so well. Life Henry Van Dyke. Let me live my life from year to year; With forward face and unreluctant soul; Not hurrying to, nor turning from, the goal; Not mourning for the things that disappear In the dim. Past, nor holding back in fear From what the future veils; but with a whole And happy heart, that pays its toll To Youth and Age, and travels on with cheer. So let the way wind up the hill and down, O'er rough or smooth, the journey will be joy Still seeking what I sought when but a boy, New friendship, high adventure, and a crown, My heart will keep the courage of the quest, And hope the road's last turn will be the best. Guide Lessons for June LESSON I (First Week in June) Theology and Testimony THE ABRAHAMIC DISPENSATION Time: About 430 years, beginning about 1921 B. C. And ending about 1491 B. C. PART I—ABRAHAM A. Some LEADING EVENTS IN THE MINISTRY OF ABRAHAM. 1. The Call of Abraham. A. The Necessity for the Call of a Dispensator— Although the Priesthood was still on the earth the world was without a great spiritual leader vested not only with authority but one called and set apart for a great work. Since the confusion of tongues mankind had seemingly been spiritually dazed and in this condition the masses were pushed by the promptings of the evil one into the darkness of paganism. Even the father of Abraham was a fanatical idolator. (See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 1:30; 2:5, 6, 7.) b. The Preparedness of Abraham for the Call— First of all Abraham was fundamentally a high grade intelligence. (See Abraham 3:23. Second, he was fore-ordained for his mission before he was born. "Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the Grand Council of heaven before this world was." (Compendium, p. 285.) Third, he was full of righteous desires: he desired the patriarchal blessing; he desired the Priesthood; he desired knowledge; he desired fatherhood; he desired to be a peace-maker; he desired to be obedient; he desired constant improvement. Fourth, he sought or worked for the things he desired. (See Abraham 1:1, 2, 3, 4.) c. The Three Distinct Features of the Call— The call of Abraham had three distinct features: first, to separate himself from the association of 208 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE idolators; second, to carry the gospel to a new land and possess that land; third, to furnish the race with a fatherhood through which "all families' of the earth should be blessed through the spread of the gospel by his posterity and the sprinkling of his blood among the peoples of the earth as germs of affinity for the Spirit of the Lord. (See Abraham 2:6, 12.) "There are two Comforters spoken of, one is the Holy Ghost, the same as given on the day of Pentecost, and that all Saints receive after faith, repentance, and baptism. This first comforter, or Holy Ghost, has no other effect than pure intelligence. It is more powerful in expanding the mind, enlightening the understanding, and storing the intellect with present knowledge, of a man who is of the literal seed of Abraham, than one that is a Gentile, though it may not have half as much visible effect upon the body; for as the Holy Ghost falls upon one of the literal seed of Abraham, it is calm and serene; and his whole soul and body are only exercised by the pure spirit of intelligence; while the effect of the Holy Ghost upon a Gentile, is to purge out the old blood, and make him actually of the seed of Abraham." (See Compendium, p. 268.) It seems evident that faith, repentance, baptism, patriarchal blessing, ordinations, sealings are accelerative of the increase of the blood of Abraham within us, and that doubt and direlection in our duties tend to the diminishing of that blood and the fostering of the pagan strains that may lie lurking in our veins. And herein is seen the advantage, physical as well as spiritual, of having the Spirit of the Lord with us. The bread and the water are relatively of little importance in the sacrament service, but the getting and having of the Spirit of the Lord with us, as provided in the sacramental prayers, are of great physical as well as spiritual importance, because the ~ Spirit of the Lord increases the strength of the blood of Israel in us. "That man that has none of the blood of Abraham (naturally) must have a new creation by the Holy Ghost. In such a case, there may be more of powerful effect upon the body, and visible to the eye, than upon an Israelite, while the Israelite at first might be far before the Gentile in pure intelligence." Compendium, p. 269. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 209 The Delivery of the Urim and Thummim to Abraham. Whether the sacred instrument of seership and revelation was obtained by Abraham before he filled the first part of his mission by leaving the land of Ur, or whether he made a trip back to this center of civilization and obtained from the Lord the Urim and Thummim, is not certain; but at all events he came into possession of it directly from the Lord. By means of the Urim and Thummim God gave Abraham a vision of the universe physical and spiritual. (See Abraham 3:4, 23.) Abraham Obtains the Priesthood. Abraham left the famine-smitten land of Haran and made his way to the land of Palestine where he received the Priesthood from the high priest Melchizedek after a victorious campaign of rescue. (See Genesis 14:8-18.) "Which Abraham received the Priesthood from Melchizedek who received it through the lineage from the fathers." (Doc. And Cov. 84:14.) This event was accompanied by gladsomeness and grattitude on the part of the ideal patriarch, Abraham was a born heir to the Priesthood. His ancestors had conferred the right to the Priesthood upon him as an inheritance. But he sought for an official conferring of this glorious authority. (Abraham 3, 4.) From Melchizedek he obtained what he had so long sought—the appointment as an agent of the Lord—and true to his high-grade nature he decided that in him the Lord should have an honest agent. "He gave him tithes of all." Genesis 14:20.) The Offering of Isaac. Abraham had already offered on the altar of obedience the home-presence of one of his sons—he had sent Ishmael away to be reared among the uncircumsized, and the patriarch's chief comfort was a promise from God that he would look after the boy and see to it that his life should be a part of the fulfilment of one of the great promises made to Abraham. (See Genesis 17:20.) And now when the heir of promise, Isaac, who was about fifteen years younger than Ishmael, when this boy, the only child of Sarah, was budding into manhood, God puts Abraham to a test through which he came to be known as one who loved the Lord with all his might, mind and strength, "a friend of God." The test was one to which no childless man could be put. 210 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Abraham's fatherhood was to be made a special means of lifting him towards Godhood. The offering of Isaac was a double sacrifice: it included, in the mind of Abraham, the giving up of Isaac and the setting aside of an ethical ideal. Abraham was heart and soul opposed to the doctrine and practice of sacrificing human beings. He not only protested against it among his own people but he condemned it in Egypt to the extent of drawing down upon him the violence of the idolatrous rulers in that country. (See Abraham 1:5, 6, 7, 13.) Abraham, in obedience to his understanding of God's command, a superior loyalty to God, prepared to make an offering of his son which included the shedding of his blood. But when Isaac questioned concerning a lamb, he answered, "My son, God will provide. Himself a lamb for the burnt offering." The patriarch in this was a prophet, not a seer. Isaac was placed upon the altar; the knife was raised; and there the offering of Isaac ended. The call of the angel that interrupted the procedure was not a countermand of the word of God, but a revelation of what offering a son by a father meant. The ram in the thicket was an objective vindication of Abraham's stand against "human sacrifice." He was tested and found true to God, as he understood him, and the Lord intervened as he always will to prevent mistakes being made by those who are loyal to him. Abraham's son was saved and his ethical ideal preserved. B. Some OUTSTANDING FEATURES OF ABRAHAM'S LIFE AND CHARACTER, 1. He Merited the Beatitudes Pronounced in the Sermon on tlie Mount. A. He was poor in spirit and felt the constant need of God's help. There was no self-sufficiency about Abraham.: b. He was one of "those who mourn." He must have grieved over the wickedness of the world and the apostasy of his relatives. The banishment of a part of his family was a source of sorrow to him. (See Genesis 21:11.) He mourned the death of his wife. (See Genesis 23:2.) c. He was of "the meek," for what ever else meekness stands for it stands for teachableness, and Abraham stands in the front ranks of knowledge seekers. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 211 d. To know that Abraham belongs to the class '"'who do hunger and thirst after righteousness" one need but contemplate his own words recorded in Abraham 1:2: "Desiring to be a greater follower of righteousness." e. That he merits the blessing promised to those "who are merciful" is evident from his pleadings with the Lord to spare a city from destruction. (See Gen. 18:20, 38.) f. The selection of Abraham to be the lineal father of a race through which the mother of the "Only Begotten" should come is evidence of Abraham's being intrinsically one of the "pure in heart." The fact that Abraham had access to the presence of the Lord is ample proof of his being entitled to the sixth beatitude. G. "Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God." The peace-making quality of Abraham is brought to the front in his generous policy with Lot and in his refusal to accept the spoils of war. (See Genesis 13:7-12; 14:14, 24.) But the conclusive evidence that Abraham was entitled to the seventh beatitude is found in the fact that God said to him 'My son, my son." (See Abraham 3: 12.) h. In proof that Abraham merited "They which are persecuted for righteousness sake," we have the treatment he received at the hands of the idolators of his day and then the fact that he received the reward promised. Jesus in his parable of the rich man and Lazarus indicates that Abraham was among those of whom it can be said, "of these is the kingdom of heaven' and the Lord declares directly that Abraham is exalted in the kingdom of heaven. (See Doc. And Cov. 132:29.) Questions and Problems: 1. To Don About what time in the world's history did Abraham live? Describe the conditions that made the calling of Abraham necessary. What were the special desires and efforts of Abraham that gave him a preparedness for his call? What were the three features of the call of Abraham? Tell how Abraham obtained the Urim and Thummim. How is verse twenty-six of chapter three in the Book of 212 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Abraham prominently related to the Latter-day Saint literature? 7. How did Abraham give evidence that his agency for God should be accompanied by absolute honesty with the Lord? 8. Discuss the difference between the offering of Isaac and the sacrificing of him. 9. What lesson was taught to the ages by the voice of the angel and the finding of the ram in the thicket? 10. Give proof that Abraham was entitled to the blessings pronounced in the Sermon on the Mount. 11. Discuss Hagar as the grand-mother of twelve princes. (Gen. 17:20.) - - LESSON II (Second Week in June) Work and Business TEACHERS TOPIC FOR JUNE Cooperation of parents and teachers in simplicity of graduation exercises. 1. Cooperation is essential to simplicity in graduation exercises. 2. Finishing the eighth grade is simply passing from the grades into the junior high and not a graduation. 3. Elaborate exercises in the grades sometimes detracts from the desire to go on to high school and college. 4. Gifts of jewelry and money at this time are inappropriate. 5. Mothers and children have been made ill through the preparations for such elaborate and wholly uncalled for exercises. LESSON III (Third Week in June) Literature HENRY DAVID THOREAU At the Relief Society conference, held during the year 1923, the members of the organization were told that America had assumed the leadership of the world since the World War; and for that reason everything American would attract more attention than ever before; and, as a consequence, American literature, treated somewhat scornfully in the past by people across the GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 213 Atlantic, would come in for its share of attention. It is because we have confirmation of this fact, and because the Spring and Summer months are coming, when writers who portray nature are especially interesting, that we have selected Henry David Thoreau for this lesson. A French paper of note is publishing a column each day on HENRY DAVID THOREAU American affairs and American literature, and the first writer they have selected is Henry David Thoreau; and, since the French people are thinking about him and reading him we think it only right that the members of our organization should become acquainted with him also. We once heard a man trom India say that the people in India knew more about John Milton than the Americans knew, we should not like the Frenchman to say that French people know more about Henry David Thoreau than the American knows. An American critic, Mr. Roy Bennett Page, tells us that Thoreau has been growing in popularity of late years, so much so that in 1906 his complete journal of over fourteen volumes was published, just as he left it. Thoreau was born in Concord, July 12, 1817. A number of our writers made Concord their home but few were born there. He was of French and Scottish ancestry. This may account, in a 214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE measure, for the French turning their attention to him first of all. His people were poor, his father being a pencil maker, nevertheless they contrived in some way to have him go through school, and with some little help from the University he was graduated from Harvard in 1837. He is the writer who above all others believed in keeping a journal. Among his college themes was one that recommended the keeping of a journal, the form in which all his writings appear from the year of his graduation to his death, his journal making in all thirty manuscript volumes. In college he appears to have distinguished himself in Greek and English composition. He taught school for a while, worked at his father's trade of pencil maker, until he was satisfied that he could make a better pencil than his father, then gave it up stating that he had lost interest in further effort in that di rection. He then began what Ralph Waldo Emerson called those, '"endless walks and miscellaneous studies." One of these journeys took him the entire length of Cape Cod; another, into Maine; still another, into Canada. The report of these trips although not published until after his death, form the foundation of his literary fame. At that time he was an important factor in Concord life. He lectured before the Athenaeum, and was a skillful surveyor. Gardner and carpenter. However, in 1845, he borrowed an ax from Alcott, and a piece of land on Walden Pond, from Emerson, and built himself a hut. He lived a very frugal life. The record of this life is found in his book Walden. He tells us he went into the woods to see if he could not learn what the essentials of life really are. Somehow in his contact with nature he concluded that the institution of slavery was morally wrong. Going into the village one afternoon he was arrested and jailed "because he did not pay a tax to, or recognize the authority of, the state which buys and sells men, women and children like cattle at the door of its senate house." These are practically his own words. It is said that Emerson went to visit him while he was in prison and asked, "Henry, what are you doing here?" He was met with the yankee reply, "Ralph Waldo, why are you not here?" Thoreau declared he would not pay taxes to a nation that supported such an abominable institution as slavery. But the value of Walden, thought by many to be his chief work, lies not in the fact that its author lived the simple life at Walden Pond or that he protested against the institution of slavery, but in the fact that he interpreted nature, by telling us how "spring GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 215 came in," and of the changing color of Walden Pond. He has taught us the granduer of the great outdoor life about us and is the first of that school of writers of which John Burroughs is a notable example. He died on May 6, 1862. He had lived near to nature and had learned enough to be unafraid of death. Undoubtedly the unprotected life he lived brought on the consumption that resulted in his death. All who knew him were strongly attracted to him, as a beautiful character, and nothing in his life better justified their devotion than some sentiments expressed in his last weeks, when he knew death was at hand." "When I was a very little boy," he said to one, "I learned that I must die, and I set that down, so, of course, I am not disappointed now." 'To Bronson Alcott he said: "I shall leave the world without a regret, though to few men has 'the mere living' been more delightful." No doubt Thoreau withdrew himself from society because he thought society was diseased. In his Natural History of Massachusetts he writes, "There is no scent in it so wholesome as that of the pines, nor any fragrance so penetrating and restorative as the life everlasting in high pastures." Again in an essay on "Walking" he said, "Hope in the future for me, is not in towns and cities but in the impervious and quaking swamps." The titles of his works published after his death compiled from his journals are: Excursions, 1863; Maine Woods, 1864; Cape Cod, 1865; A Vankee in Canada, 1866; Spring, 1881; Summer, 1884; Winter, 1887; Autumn, 1892; Notes on New England and Birds, 1910. His style was incoherent, he jumped from one to another without the least warning; yet all this admitted, it does not in the least change the fact that he set forth what he observed in the habits and actions of the "woodpecker, chicadee, song sparrow, bluebird, goldfish, wild duck and squirrel, Ayla, and muskrat, and with rare affection studied all God's creatures." Emerson says, "he sat immovable until 'the bird, the reptile, the fish which had retired from him should come back and resume its habits." He seemed by nature fitted for his work, for again Emerson remarks, "his power of observation seemed to indicate additional senses; he saw as with a microscope, heard as with a trumpet, and his memory was a photographic register of all he saw and heard." THE COMING OF THE BIRDS (From Early Spring in Massachusetts) March 18, 1858. How much more habitable a few birds make the fields! At the end of the winter, when the fields are bare, and there is 216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nothing to relieve the monotony of withered vegetation, our life seems reduced to its lowest terms. But let the bluebird come and warble over them, and what a change! The note of the first bluebird in the air answers to the purling rill of melting snow beneath. It is evidently soft and soothing, and, as surely as the thermometer, indicates a higher temperature. It is the accent of the south wind, in vernacular. It is modulated by the south wind. The song-sparrow is more sprightly, mingling its notes with the rustling of the brush along the water sides, but it is at the same time more terrene than the bluebird. The first woodpecker comes screaming into the empty house, and throws open doors and windows wide, calling out each of them to let the neighbors know of its return. But heard farther off it is very suggestive of ineffable associations, which cannot be distinctly recalled, of long-drawn summer hours, and thus it also has the effect of music. I was not aware that the capacity to hear the woodpecker had slumbered within me so long. When the blackbird, gets to a conqueree he seems to be dreaming of the sprays that are to be and on which he will perch. The robin does not come singing, but utters a somewhat anxious or inquisitive peep at first. The song-sparrow is immediately most at home of those I have named. Each new year is a surprise to us. We find that we had virtually forgotten the note of each bird, and when we hear it again, it is remem-~ bered like a dream, reminding us of a previous state of existence. How happens it that the association it awakens are always pleasing, never saddening, reminiscence of our sanest hours. The voice of nature is always encouraging. When I get two-thirds up the hill, I look round, and am for the hundredth time surprised by the landscape of the river valley and the hor! Zon with its distant blue-scalloped rim. It is a spring landscape, and as impossible a fortnight ago as the songs of birds. It is deeper and warmer blue than in winter, methinks. The snow is off the mountains, which seem even to have come again like the birds. The undulating river is a bright blue channel between sharp-edged shores of ice retained by the willows. The wind blows strong but warm from west by north (so that I have to hold my paper tight while I write this), making the copses creak and roar, but the sharp tinkle of a song-sparrow is heard through it all. But, ah! The needles of the pine, how they shine, as I look down over the Holden road and westward! Every third tree is lit with the most subdued, but clear, ethereal light, as if it were the most delicate frost-work in a winter morning, reflecting no heat, but only light. And as they rock and wave in the strong wind, even a mile off, the light courses up and, down them as over a field of grain, ie., they are alternately light and dark, like looms above the forest, when the shuttle is thrown between the light woof and the dark web. At sight of this my spirit is like a lit tree. It runs or flashes over their parallel boughs as when you play with the teeth of a comb. Not only osiers, but pine needles, shine brighter I think, in the spring, and arrowheads and railroad rails, etc., ete. Anacreon noticed this spring shining. Is it not from the higher sun and cleansed air and greater animation of nature? There is a warmer red on the leaves of the shrub oak and on the tail of the hawk circling over them. MAIMED NATURE (From Early Spring in Massachusetts) March 23, 1856. I spent a considerable portion of my time observing the habits of the wild animais, my prute neighbors. By their various movements and migrations they fetch the year about to me. Very GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 217 significant are the flight of geese and the migration of suckers, etc. But when I consider that the nobler animals have been exterminated, here, the cougar, panther, lynx, wolverine, wolf, bear, moose, deer, beaver, turkey, etc., etc., I cannot but feel as if I lived in a tamed land as it were, emasculated country. Would not the motions of those larger and wilder animals have been more significant still? Is it not a maimed and imperfect nature that I am conversant with? As if I were to study a tribe of Indians that had lost all its warriors. Do not the forest and the meadow now lack expression? Now that I never see nor think of the moose with a lesser forest on his head in the one, nor of the beaver in the other? When I think what were the various sounds and, notes, the migration and works, and changes of fur and plumage, which ushered in the spring and marked the other seasons of the year, I am reminded that this my life in nature, this particular round of natural phenomena which I call a year, is lamentably incomplete. I listen to a concert in which so many parts are wanting. The whole civilized country is, to some extent, turned into a city, and I am that citizen whom I pity. Many of those animal migrations and other phenomena by which the Indians marked the season are no longer to be observed. I seek acquaintance with nature to know her moods and manners. Primitive nature is the most interesting to me. I take infinite pains to know all the phenomena of the spring, for instance, thinking that I have here the entire poem, and then, to my chagrin, I learn that it is but an imperfect copy that I possess and have read, that my ancestors have torn out many of the first leaves and grandest passages, and mutilatea it in many places. I should not like to think that some demigod had come before me and picked out some of the best of the stars. I wish to know an entire heaven and an entire earth. All the great trees and beasts, fishes and fowl are gone; the streams perchance are somewhat shrunk. Questions and Problems 1. Why is Thoreau called the "Concord Dearest?" 2. Many writers have declared that by living near to nature they have had spiritual and moral lessons suggested to them. What do you think of the idea? Have you personally had any spiritual uplift through contact with nature? 3. Do you think Thoreau was justified in not paying his taxes, and in going to prison rather than paying them? 4. State what you may have observed during the Spring months in the great outdoor world that has appealed to you. 5. What do you favor most, or what makes the greatest appeal to you, in the selections you have read from Thoreau? LESSON IV (Fourth Week in June) Social Service SocrtaAL ASPECTS OF EDUCATION The educational program is, in our democracy, a state affair. An appreciation of the necessity and value of edcuation by the 218 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE people generally, has led to the development of an extensive and elaborate system of state education. That the state has the power to make school attendance of children compulsory, is a recognized and accepted fact. That taxes should be levied for the support of the school system, is also an unquestioned institution. That educational legislation and appropriations vary, of course, in the different states. Utah's school attendance act is one of the most advanced of the time. The present statute provides that all children between the ages of 8 and 18 shall be in attendance at school unless the child has completed the senior high school. When he reaches 16, if his services are needed by a widow or by an invalid father, or if his health makes school attendance unadvisable, he may be allowed to discontinue regular school and attend part-time school. Until children are 18, or have completed the regular high school, they are not permitted to enter industry, unless satisfactory arrangements are made for them to enter a part-time class. This part-time school work may te taken a certain number of hours each week, or a certain number of weeks each year. The total must be 144 hours per year. In order to maintain the educational standards set by the community, the schools of a metropolis usually have their own special officers or staff members to supervise entrance, nonattendance, truancy, and later, the vocational guidance of children entering industry. Often trained social workers are employed to give the kind of expert attention that is needed to assist dependent, neglected, or problem children, to make the necessary adjustment in school or in industry. In smaller communities, the principals and teachers have the responsibility of handling these social problems which arise in the school. Many of the problems of attendance and conduct that must be met in school are fundamentally social difficulties that have their bases in a faulty home environment. For this reason the school often finds it necessary to ask the aid of some family agency to assist in treating the problem. The social worker who is visiting a family often has an insight into the family difficulties, which is presented to the school, gives the school a better understandng of the situation. A close relationship should exist between school and family visitor, for both are observing the members of the family—their health, habits, abilities, etc——and both are working fundamentally toward the same end. Both aim to contribute to the growth, the development, and the stability of the individuals with whom they work. A child usually enters school soon after his sixth birthday. In a well-adjusted family this is understood and the necessary GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 219 preparations are made as a matter of course and are often eagerly anticipated. The first day at school is something of an event to the child and also to the parents. But if the parents do not understand English, and are unaware of the school regulations, or if the mother is ill and the extra effort of making school clothes is a task she cannot undertake, or if there is actually no money with which to buy the necessary dress or pair of shoes, the first day at school is likely to be delayed. A family who has suffered the hardships of illness, unemployment, inadequate income, etc., frequently find it necessary to postpone the children's entrance in school, and if there is no outside interference or assistance in the interest of the children, non-attendance may continue from month to month and even from year to year. Even after the children have been formally entered in school their regular attendance is not assured. The same family difficulties that kept the children from entering promptly, will tend to make them spasmodic and irregular in their attendance.: It is obvious that merely to "order" children to report at school is unreasonable and often futile. The whole family may need readjustment before regular attendance can be expected. Perhaps employment is needed for the man out of work, or an income for a widow, or a housekeeper for a widower. Perhaps standards of household management and habits of regularity need to be introduced. It may take a long period of time to introduce the new habits and construct a new mode of living. Infinite skill and patience are needed by a person who attempts to reconstruct a family's standard of living. If such a program of social treatment is necessary to raise a family to a higher standard, and incidentally to insure a more regular attendance and a better appreciation of educational opportunities, the task of family rehabilitation belongs to the social worker rather than to the school. Non-attendance at school is not the only difficulty that the teacher or principal and the family visitor can share. The difficult child, the rowdy one, and the one failing in school work, is perhaps a problem because of some maladjustment at home. The lack of the material necessities of life can account for much abnormal behavior. Likewise, if a child is not well, or if he cannot sleep because of the lack of adequate covering, or if he has not had sufficient nourishing food, he is likely to be listless and slow at his school work. If there is unhappiness and friction in the home circle, the children naturally will develop an irritability and a nervousness that will make for undesirable conduct in the school room and on the play ground. A sensitive child may be made to suffer and consequently 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE behave "queerly" because of a lack of understanding at home. The following incident illustrates one child's emotional problem, and the simple treatment that removed the cause of the difficulty. A young girl appeared to be so stupid at school that until an examination by a psychologist was made it was thought that she was not quite normal. The difficulty had its chief cause in the behavior of the family towards the child. The younger brother was obviously the favorite at home because both parents had looked forward to the advent of their first son. The boy was given precedence in everything and nothing but reproach was given the girl. She was continually being compared with her brother to her own disadvantage. She would hear her mother tell visitors of her brother's cleverness and of her own shyness and backwardness. It was not surprising therefore that she should have been quiet and timid in school. Ever since she had been able to remember, her every effort at self-expression had been discourged before it had had a chance to start. Daily she was being told that she was an inferior person, that she was capable of nothing, and that she amounted to nothing. She was now bound up as effectively as if she had been in chains. Because of her family's conduct, she was shut up within herself so com~ pletely she could not adjust to her home or her school life. Only after the parents had been shown the part they were playing in their daughter's unhappiness did the child begin to receive the opportunities she needed. A changed atmosphere at home and special attention in school released her from her fears and her timidness and stimulated her to the use of her abilities. A new development of school service in the larger cities is that of a visiting teacher. The qualifications for this position include both teaching and social work experience. Children who present health or behavior problems or who give other evidences of poor care or misunderstanding, are referred to the visiting teacher for study and treatment. Because of the visiting teacher's ability to observe the child, both in the school and in the home environment, she can give the special care that difficult children require. — When children reach the age where they are permitted to leave school and enter industry, many new problems arise. It is, of course, important to prolong the educational period as long as possible for those who have aptitudes for academic work. It is often excellent economy to supplement a family's income for a few years in order to give able, ambitious children the advantage of further school work. In some instances, however, it may be advisable to start early to give specialized training for a particular industry. Decisions regarding the continuation of the educational period should be based on the child's ability, his health, his ambitions, and the standards of the family. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 221 Boys and girls who leave school to go to work as soon as the school law permits, are not likely to be very fortunate in the choice of an occupation unless some guidance is given to them. In consequence of the growing realization of the number of industrial failures, and the economic waste caused by haphazard selection of vocations, both schools and industrial concerns are making attempts to place children in positions for which they are fitted. For instance, factory work, because of its monotony, might be depressing and discouraging to a high-tempered, lively young boy. Because of the deadening routine he is likely to quit his job some day, or perhaps even leave home and seek adventure on the open road or ina new town. If his job had appealed to some ambition he had entertained, or perhaps to his natural youthful desire for romance and adventure, he would doubtless have become a steady workman. His own ambitions and tastes should have been consulted. The factory work might have appealed to another boy who would like the opportunity to do work with his hands, to associate with pleasant people, and to gain the satisfaction and security that come with being part of an established, reliable organization. Vocational guidance undoubtedly should begin while the children are yet in school, giving them opportunity, without economic loss, to discover their aptitudes and abilities. There is some danger, of course, of specializing too early, for the selection of a life occupation requires mature judgment. Vocational guidance should not be discontinued when the child accepts his first position in industry. Supervision, given either by industrial concerns or by the continuation schools, should be extended until a satisfactory transfer has been made from school to industrial life. Reference: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 69-79. Questions and Problems 1. What are the school attendance regulations of your state? 2. Why are school problems with children often family problems? 3. How can parents and social workers cooperate with schools? 4. How can parents assist in choosing vocations for their children? 5. Why is it important to permit the child to have a voice in the selection of his vocation? 7 Half Hundred College ursess Zach an Loent Conducted by more than a score of America's leading educators, X each the outstanding authority in his line. Graduate or under- \ graduate credit, in courses covering all the major branches of learning. A summer session for all classes; mothers, nurses, doctors, teachers, farmers and professional and business people. A summer school right at your door, that offers more advantages in study and recreation than any other in the world! Several of these celebrities will remain for the full quarter. Special Faculty June 15 to July 25 Allee, Zoology, University of ChiCornell; Mrs. Palmer, Geology, cago; Binzell, child psychology, Cornell; McCollum, Nutrition, Columbia; Boyle, Agr. Economics, Johns Hopkins; Roseneau, Public Cornell; Carver, Economics, HarHealth, Harvard; Sedgewick, Engvard (quarter); Cowles, Botany, lish, U. Of British Columbia; U. Of Chicago; Dykema, Music, Shearer, Primary Methods, Long Columbia (one week); Ellwood, Beach, Calif.; Turner, History, Sociology, U. Of Missouri (quarHarvard; Walker, Efficiency Methter); Franzen, Psychology, U. Of ods, Washburn Mfg. Co.; Dr. Cal.; Geister, Play and Games, Widtsoe, Agriculture. Columbia, (two weeks); Hinman, Dancing, U. Of Chicago (two Special Lecturers: Edward Howweeks); Kester, Accounting, Coard Griggs, New York; Shailer lumbia; Kilpatrick, Education, Matthews, U. Of Chicago, Divinity Columbia; Luderbeck, Geology, School; E. A. Steiner, Grinnell, U. Of Cal.; Palmer, Nature Study, Iowa; A. E. Winship, Boston. Ist Term: June 15 to July 25 2nd Term: July 27 to Sept. 5 Register June 12 or 13 Tuition fee: $25 Ist term; $35 full quarter Write fer catalog LOGAN, UTAH. School Utah Agricultural — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (-— Daylight Your Kitchen The lighting arrangment of the average kitchen is woefully inadequate. The consequence of unnecessary eye strain producing nervous conditions which may lead to serious consequences. This is the opinion held by high medical authority. DURING APRIL ONLY You may have a fifteen day trial of the famous DAYLIGHT KITCHEN LIGHT—it floods your kitchen with restful, yet sufficient quantity of light and takes away the shadows. PAY 7c A MONTH —for your light after you have tested it in your own home until the full price of $6.50 is paid. This price includes the DAYLIGHT KITCHEN LIGHT, Mazda lamp and installing. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service — Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear  Per Pair $1.95 Box of three Pair $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair.....$1.50 Box of Three Pairs................$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic. Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair....$1.50 Box of Three Fairs................$4.25 Hesiery durable. All Colors Per Pair.......$1.00 Box of Three Pairs................$2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Snowcrofts Blue Pine Extracts are guaranteed pure, full strength and wonderfully rich in flavor. Your cakes and pastry will be improved by using Blue Pine Vanilla and Lemon Extracts. Are the choicest of spices grown. They are guaranteed to you as being absolutely pure. Say BLUE PINE To Your Grocer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  VOL. XII MAY, 1925 No. 5 Mother's Love .. Alfred Osmond 223 National Council of Women Quinquennial Campaign 225 The Mother 229 Mrs. Jeanette Acord Hyde.......Dr. George W. Middleton 231 Resting Time for Mother... Mary H. Woolsey 234 Editorial—Seeing What the Missionary Predicted Concerning Palestine.................... 243 The Missionary Home.....................244 Kate Waller Barrett........ Annie Wells Cannon 245 To Mother Dear on Mother's Day.................. Willard Greene Richards 248 Mother's Answer.......... Lula Greene Richards 249 The Editor Abroad........ Alice Louise Reynolds 250 New Board Members.............. 257 Psychology of Child Feeding............ Jean Cox 261 Of Interest to Women.............. Lalene H. Hart 266 One Phase of Motherhood.. Susan T. Jennings 268 May one Mrs. Alice Foutz 272 Notes from the Field........ Amy Brown Lyman 273 My Little Babe................... Fern J. B. Russon 278 Teachers' Topic for July...... 279 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah de— ICE CREAM CANDY: CAKE PUNCHES deliciously different PHONE wasS.3223 INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS NOW IN STOCK BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME' 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered RECENT ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Mt. Carmel, Utah, January 8, 1925. We received the individual sacrament set in good shape and, speaking in behalf of the people of the ward, are very well pleased with the set. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, January 11, 1925. We received the sacrament sets that the branch has ordered and we wish to thank you for the prompt service that you gave us in sending them. In regard to the trays we are also very much satisfied as to the finish and size, BUREADU OF INFORMATION ) S: 4 | Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits for Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Aitention 0 Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 * 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine Temple Block Salt Lake City f, NEW GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled. Only by your leading merchants, We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request. For Ladies For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Light................ 95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight.... 1.25 No: 2—Ribbed Weave Light............ 1.25 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality.... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Fat.............. 145 No. 925—Med. Light Weight....... 1.85 No. 803—Extra Quality Ribb...... 1.50 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton...... 185 No. 990—Heavy Ecrn. Cotton........ 2.50 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............ 2.00 -No. 9107—Wool & Cotton................ 4.00 No. 850—Imp. Lisle........: a a 2.50 No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton.... 4.50 Toinsure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States. Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City ) if ) Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers DUTCH CUT They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine Ga "Save the Extra Expense of Probation on Your Estate" ASK US HOW Practically EVERY MAN AND WOMAN has need of service such as our TRUST DEPARTMENT is specially qualified to give. OUR RECORD: OVER FIFTY YEARS OF EFFICIENT, CONSCIENCIOUS SERVICE Zion's Savings Bank and Trust Company 1-3-5 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah WE PAY 4% ON SAVINGS DEPOSITS 1069 East 21st South Guaranteed L. D. §. Garments OUR SPECIAL OFFER With every order of $8.00 or over, you get a Fine Rubber Apron FREE. If you do not need Garments now. Get an order from your friends or neighbors On such orders you are entitled to the premium. Be sure and state whether you want NEW or OLD STYLE, MEN'S or LADIES'. LONG or SHORT LEGS. = ence recommended for MEN and can be made with Double ack, PRICE LIST FOR SPRING AND SUMMER, 1925 No. 50 Light weight bleach- *No. 60 Heavy rib. Bleached cotton. Flat weave $.95 ed cotton ........ 2.25 No. 51 Fine ribbed cotton No. 64 Fine lisle................ 2.25 in ladies' new style No. 66 Fine mercerized lisle 2.75 ONLY 1 *No 68 Heavy weight, 1/3 No. 52 Fine ribbed bleached © ' COTTON 2... 1.50 wool 3.25 No 54 Med. Ribbed bleach- *No. 70 Heavy weight. 50%.  1.75 wool 4.00 No. 56 Medium ribbed unbleached cotton........ 1.75 No 94 Pure Silk........12.00 *No. 58 Heavy ribbed No. 98 Fine cotton with silk bleached cotton........ 2.25  1.95 A Beautiful Mother's Day Booklet Send for a copy of this charming, specially prepared booklet for mother. Beautiful in poetic sentiment, color illustration and general design. Single copy, 15c. Dozen, $1. In 100 quantity, $8.: All post paid prices. Send your order today Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine Mother's Love By Alfred Osmond, Head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah The mother thinks her boy was born to be A model of the creatures of his kind, That God and Nature work incessantly In building up his body ard his mind In harmony with laws that have refined The one they chose from coarser clods of clay. For this one was selected and designed To overwhelm his foes along the way, When angels opened wide the golden gates of day. Her cause of agony has now become The royal bearer of her crowns of Joy. All other voices must be hushed and dumb, That she may hear the accents of her boy. Nor time nor tide nor terror can destroy The love of mother for her darling child. The grosser passions that debase and cloy Have left our angel mothers undefiled, To heal the wounded hearts that evil has beguiled. All other things may fail, but mother's love Is deeper than the channels of the sea. The planets in their courses up above, As changeless as the clocks of destiny, Seem models of divine fidelity. But even they may wander from their course, Or, falling into fragments, cease to be. But mother's love has an eternal source And will forever be our chiefest moral force. I see in mother's love an angel fair Who watches with a fond, adoring eye, And from his sunlight castles in the air, Waves warnings through the clear and cloudless sky. "My child! My child!" I hear the mother's cry— "If you become entangled in disgrace, The heartless world will guess the reason why, Or read the secret in your mother's face— The hero of her heart has lost his pride of place." Lady Ishbell Aberdeen, President of the International Council of Women. From left to right: Mrs. Philip North Moore, President National Council of Women of the United States. Mrs. Ruth May Fox, Auditor National Council of Women of the United States, Member Quinquennial Committee, Utah. Center: Mrs, Amy Brown Lyman, Delegate National Council of Women of the United States to International Council, 1925, Secretary Quinquennial Committee, Utah. Bottom from left to right: President Clarissa S. Williams, Chairman Quinquennial Committee, State of Utah. Mrs. E. O. Wattis, Vice-Chirman Quinquennial Committee, State of Utah. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII MAY, 1925 No. 5 National Council of Women Quinquennial Campaign UTAH DIVISION Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, state chairman of the Quinquennial campaign committee for the National Council of Women of the United States, is to be heartily congratulated upon the fact that Utah, under her able leadership, was the first state in the union to complete and forward to the national president, the quota assigned to it. The women of Utah who belong to organizations affiliated with the National Council of Women are also to be congratulated upon their loyalty to the Council and upon their earnest and successful efforts in raising their portion of funds to help defray the expenses of the great Quinquennial meeting of the International Council of Women, to be held in Washington, D. C., in May, 1925. From the time the International Council accepted the invitation of the National Council of the United States to hold its next meeting in this country, the women began to make plans and preparations for the interesting event. Affiliated organizations made contributions from their own treasuries to begin the work, and later the states were organized for a general campaign to raise the necessary additional funds. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general president of the Relief Society, was named by Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the National Council, as state chairman for Utah, and she was notified that the quota for the state was $3,500. She was also informed that the advance gifts of the two national organizations with headquarters in Salt Lake City—the Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, might 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE apply on the state quota in case this would be agreeable. To these two organizations. Soon after her appointment as state chairman, Mrs. Williams, under the direction of Mrs. Moore, called together the presidents of the state organizations which are affiliated through their national groups with the National Council of Women of the United States, to consider the matter of assisting the National Council with its stupendous undertaking. The following organizations in Utah are affiliated with the National Council and the majority of them sent delegates to this meeting: League of Women Voters, National Woman's Relief Society, National Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, Women's Relief Corps, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Women of the G. A. R., American Association of University Women, National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teachers' Association, Women's Christian Temperance Union Young Women's Christian Association, Medical Women's Association, National Auxiliary of Spanish War Veterans, American Legion Auxiliary, Service Star Legion, State Nurse Association, the Temple Sisterhood. The representatives assembled decided to support the National Council in every possible way to make the quinquennial meeting a success, and organized for the purpose of conducting the campaign for funds. Mrs. E. O. Wattis, president of the state Federation of Women's Clubs, was named as vice-chairman of the state committee, and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, general secretary of the Relief Society, was named secretary. In addition to the chairman, vice-chairman and secretary, other members of the executive committee were: Mrs. Ruth May Fox, auditor of the National Council, and representing the Y. L. M. I. A., committee member; Mrs. E. V. Brooks, representing Women's Relief Corps, committee member; Mrs. Lavinia Brown, representing the Y. W. C. A., committee member. As a means of raising the quota it was decided to ask every member of every affiliated group in the state of Utah to contribute 10c toward the state fund, which it was thought, in addition to the gifts already forwarded by the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A., and in addition to prospective patronships, would cover the state quota. Immediately after the meeting held early in November, letters were sent out to the local presidents of the various groups and there was such a hearty response from the women of the state to the appeal of the central committee that in less than three months the quota was raised and forwarded to the president of the National Council. Mrs. Moore hastened to acknowledge receipt of the contribution from the state, and to inform the chairman that Utah was the first state in the union to send in its quota. Quinquennial meetings of the International Council are held NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 7 every five years. The May meeting will be the sixth quinquennial, previous meetings having been held in Christiania, Rome, London, Geneva, and Berlin. This is the first time the honor of entertaining this great organization has come to the United States, although the International Council itself was founded in Washington, D. C., in 1888, by a group of American women, headed by Susan B. Anthony. These far-sighted women believed that an organization of the women of the world, pledged to the service of humanity, would become a great power for the promotion of the highest good of the family and the state, and the International Council was accordingly formed. The International Council, today, is made up of National Councils of thirty-six countries, with a membership of 36 million women. One of the councils is the National Council of the United States, which includes forty national organizations with a membership of 12 million women. The president of the International Council is the Marchioness of Aberdeen, who will be present and preside at the Washington meeting. Other officers of the International, and delegates from approximately forty-two countries, including the United States will also attend. Each National Council will be entitled to twenty delegates and alternates. At the board meeting of the National Council of the United States, held in Washington, in November, 1924, the twenty delegates and alternates were selected from among the forty national organizations. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman of Utah was one of the women named to represent the National Council of the United States on this occasion. The sixth quinquennial meeting which will cover ten days, May 4-14, will be a great forum where the women of the world will meet to discuss world problems, and will no doubt bring about a better understanding among the women of the different nations and will be a decisive step toward international peace. Prominent among the subjecfs for study and consideration will be permament peace, international arbitration, equal moral standards for men and women, law enforcement, public health, education, emigration and immigration, industrial position of women, child welfare, and kindred subjects. Plans for the first four evening sessions are as follows: May 4—Ceremonial Evening, Mrs. Moore presiding. Addresses of welcome to be given by the President of the United States, the Secretary of State, the President General of the D. A. R., Mrs. Thomas G. Winter (in English), Mrs. Nathaniel E. Harris, Chairman of the Quinquennial, (in German), Miss Anna A. Gordon (in Spanish), and Mrs. A. Ross Hill (in French). 228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE May 6—Music—Indian music of the early days of the Indians in this country; Negro Spirituals and American Composers. May 7—Pan American sessions devoted to the interests of councils representing Pan American countries. Presiding Officers, Lady Aberdeen and Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt (Mrs. Catt will speak on her South American visit). Address of Welcome, Dr. L. S. Rowe, Director Pan American Building; Address of Welcome in Spanish, Mrs. Henry Redmond of Corpus Christi, President of the Texas Federation of Women's Clubs. May 8—Ambassadors Evening, when the Ambassadors will be received 'by the constituents from their countries. The Secretary of State has assured Mrs. Moore that letters will be sent to the Ambassadors of all countries in which there are National Councils asking them to give all possible assistance to National Council delegates. ) The entire program is not yet available. It will include the names of a number of the most promiment men and women in the world. Practically all of the Washington branches of national organizations in the Council will have "Open House" and various affairs for the representatives of their organizations and other guests. There will also be many luncheons, receptions, teas, and dinners arranged by Washington hostesses for the delegates to the conference. The Utah life patrons, which have been either enlisted or named by the affiliated societies of Utah are: Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Martha Tingey, Miss Clarissa A. Beesley, Mrs. W. W. Riter, all of Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Mary L. Hendrickson, of Logan. The Relief Society and the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, the two national societies with headquarters in Salt Lake City, have named representatives to attend. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams will attend as president of the Relief Society and as state quinquennial chairman. At the invitation of Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the National Council, Mrs. Williams will attend a breakfast on May 5, given in honor of the International officers and the state chairmen. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, general secretary of the Relief Society, will be one of the official National Council delegates representing the women of the United States. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, will represent the Relief Society and the state Service Star Legion, of which she is president. President Martha H. Tingey of the Y. L. M. I. A. Will represent her society. Mrs. Ruth May Fox, counselor to Mrs. Tingey in the Y. L. M. I. A., will attend as an officer of the NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 229 National Council of Women of the United States, of which she is auditor. Other Utah women who are expecting to be in attendance are: Mrs. W. W. Riter, a member of the finance committee of the National Council; Miss Florence Kimball and Mrs. M. K. Forrester of the League of Women Voters; Mrs. Eliza F. McFarland, superintendent of the Bee Hive Home, a home for girls conducted by the Y. L. M. I. A.; Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon, and daughter. Mrs. John Y. Rich; Mrs. L. W. Lund, Mrs. M. I. Cowley, Miss Bae Williams and Miss Marion Cartwright. It is expected that other Utah women will be in attendance. In the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. THE MOTHER By Charles W. Hawthorne an American Artist A Mother is not a collection of fine sayings, but an eternal influence of fine arts—David Starr Jordan. MRS. JANETTE ACORD HYDE Member General Board of National Woman's Relief Society, appointed by President Coolidge to be Collector of Customs at the port of Honolulu. Mrs. Jeanette Acord Hyde By Dr. George W. Middleton From the sociological standpoint the most outstanding feature of the ending of the nineteenth, and the dawning of the twentieth century is the enfranchising of women in almost all the civilized countries. The great wisdom of this plain measure of justice has already manifested itself, although the new era has been but recently initiated. The great need of society in all times and all places is leadership. There are plenty to follow in the right pathway when somebody else has blazed the way. With the enfranchising of women we have doubled our source of supply for leadership, and we hope that time will show that we have improved its moral quality. Prominent among those women of our state who have risen to the new opportunities, and duties involved in the new order of things is the subject of this sketch, Mrs. Jeanette Acord Hyde. Mrs. Hyde is a politician of a high order, and she seems to have the sagacity and intuition that enable her to play always a winning hand. It is said that the wind and the waves are always on the side of the able navigator. There is possibly such a thing in the world as luck, but when you look into the method of the lucky individual, you generally find there is something more than blind chance to explain the success achieved. Being possessed of a fine personality, and a pleasing address, it is not a matter of wonder that Mrs. Hyde should have so ingratiated herself with the leaders of her chosen party, that she has held many positions of trust in her native state, and of late years in the nation. She was a delegate at large to the Republican convention which nominated Warren G, Harding for president of the United States. She is a member of the Republican National Committee, being one of the first women on whom this honor was conferred. In this latter capacity, she with her associates has charge of the interests of the Republican women of the United States. At the present time she is enroute to Honolulu to occupy the position of collector of customs at that busy port. If I am not mistaken this is the first time in the history of our country when a woman has been chosen for such a position. In the face of opposition she was nominated by President Coolidge, and confirmed by the senate, and for at least the next four years she is to sit at the receipt of customs in the Paradise of the Pacific. Enough political success one would imagine to upset the average individual, but hobnobbing with presidents, and great LOO RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE politicians, and standing in the lime light has made no difference to Mrs. Hyde. She is the same genial, approachable individual that she was before all the luck came her way. Apart from her political activities, Mrs. Hyde has touched social life at many angles, and has had a prominent part in most of the movements for social bettermént in her native state. She began her career as a student in the public schools of Spring City, which was her native town. Later she matriculated at the Brigham Young Academy at Provo. Those were the days of the old Master, Dr. Karl G. Maeser, whose inspiration was infectious. Many are the humorous incidents that live in the memory of each of the students who attended the classes of this remarkable man. Mrs. Hyde, who was then Miss Acord, made such a favorable impression upon him that she was retained for a year as instructor in the department of education and could have held a permanent position there had she so desired. In the public schools of her native town, she was a great success as a teacher. If she had chosen to follow the teaching profession, there is 'no doubt she would have risen to distinction. On July 22, 1887, she was married to Joseph S. Hyde. Of this marriage there have been born five children, three sons and two daughters. Miss Roumania Hyde, who is now Mrs. Ralph Wooley of Honolulu, was for a number of years one of the most prominent and popular musicians of Salt Lake City, and the rest of the family have all had the advantage of high school and college education. Mrs. Hyde is a born leader among women. A mere catalogue of all the positions of trust and responsibility she has filled would make considerable of an article in itself. In the second Grover Cleveland administration, when the panic of 1893 paralyzed all industry, and filled the land with soup houses, Mrs. Hyde took an active part in the organization of relief work for the unfortunate. She was one of the prime movers in the establishment of Camp Glen, a recreation resort where working girls might have a place to spend their summer vacation in comfort and at a price within their reach. She supervised and planned the recreation of this popular institution. The great World War, which stirred all modern nations to their depths, brought new fields of activity for women. It was indeed an inspiration to see this great nation rise in its might and majesty, and gird itself to the task of defending those sacred principles for which its martyrs have bled. From the remotest hamlet to the great metropolis there was the same spirit of consecration to a common cause. The dignity of our America must be maintained, no matter what the cost. It needed but this chance, in the new era of woman's political and sccial activities, to demonstrate that our women are quite as patriotic as our men, and JEANETTE ACORD HYDE 233 that they can fill a function in the hour of national stress which is most vital. During the stirring times of our participation in the war, Mrs. Hyde was one of the most alert and active of our citizens. She was a member of the city and state council of defense, a member of the Liberty loan committee, and was chairman of the state conservation committee under Secretary Hoover. Notwithstanding her many public activities Mrs. Hyde never lost track of the home base, nor failed of her duty as wife and mother. In addition to all the family responsibilities, she found time to win the national prize for the best war garden, and for canning fruits and vegetables, for which she holds a national certificate. She was one of the three founders of the Woman's Civic Center, an institution which has carried on an active campaign for the education of adult women. The Community Clinic which is a direct outgrowth of the Civic Center is doing a high class service to many people, who are in need of medical and surgical attention. Mrs. Hyde has served on its executive board from the beginning, and was one of the prime movers. In its establishment. After many church activities in lesser spheres, she was in 1912 set apart as a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, a position which she still holds. To that Board she has rendered efficient service in the capacity of business manager of the Relief Society Magazine, and in the various other spheres of action incident to the work of this great charity organization. As a climax to her many public services, the national recognition of her worth as a citizen involved in this appointment to Honolulu, must be most gratifying to her, and the love and respect of a great host of friends go with her into this Paradise of the Pacific. A Picture Elsie E. Barrett Some trees, three cows, a winding path, A cloud in gray-blue sky, A scene so restful and so grand It caught an artist's eye. He mused, with soul to estimate The picture nature made— With three cows, trees, a bit of sky— He saw the light and shade. Crowds passed along the road that day; Some looked but did not see; While all ignored the splendor near For some uncertainty. The artist knew the ways of men Who have no seeing-eye; So he painted pictures of that scene For all that crowd to buy. Resting Time for Mother By Mary H. Woolsey. PART ONE "Bobbie! Bessie! Jane!' "Voo-hoo!" came the answer, in three shrill childish voices; simultaneously three heads rose to visibility above the fresh green of the currant bushes at the edge of the orchard, and three small figures emerged and advanced towards the house. On the front porch, Mrs. Martha Knox, affectionately known to nearly everyone as Mother Knox, (but to these three little ones s "Aunt Marthy") waited for them. She held an opened letter in her hand; her face wore an expression of mingled expectancy and regret. The trio approached; Janie, seven-year-old youngest, climbed into her lap. She drew the little form close to her. "Daddy's coming, children." Shrieks of delight ensued. "When, Aunt Marthy?—To stay? —Oh, goodie!" "Coming tomorrow. No, not to stay. But to take you away with him." "And will you go, too?" demanded Bessie. She shook her head, smiling. "No, dear—yYou see, Daddy has—has found a sweet, new mother for you—someone you'll love, I know. Is not that fine?" "Tain't fine!" denied Bobby, with all the emphasis his nine years could express; while his twin regarded him admiringly. "Who want's a new mother? I'd like t? Know! Id ruther have Aunt Marthy, any time!" Aunt Marthy hugged them all at once. "Aw, gee!" protested Bobby, wiggling free. "You don't want us to go, do you?" "Why, of course, I'd like to keep you always, dear. But I'm thinking of your Daddy—how lonely he's been; wishing his boy and girls could be at home when he comes at night; wishing you were there to play with him sometimes. And the new mother is going to be so sweet—" Induced into wide-eyed seriousness by her tone, they stood silent for awhile; Bessie was the first to speak. "I think," she said very wisely, "I think perhaps we ought to trv to love New Mother. I don't want Daddy to be lonely, Aunt Marthy.—Will you be lonely if we go away?" RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 235 "Yes, of course," admitted her aunt readily. "But you see, fathers and mothers are best for boys and girls." "Better than aunties?" "Better than aunties," she assured them. The twins sat slowly down on the steps; chins cupped in hands, to puzzle over this new problem. Janie, secure on Aunt Maithy's lap, maintained an awed silence; Aunt Marthy herself sat all but motionless. She seemed to have come suddenly against a high wall, beyond which she could not see. What would she do after these children had gone away? They had come to her six years previously, motherless, frightened little mites of humanity; helpless, left in her capable hands by her brother, after the death of their young mother. Swiftly she grew to love them; for Martha Knox was one of those women whose hearts are all mother-heart, reaching out hungrily for babies, babies, more babies; little children instinctively trusted her, loved her, idolized her. It seemed no time at all until these three little ones were as her very own—although she was always conscious of a feeling that some day their father would probably claim them again. Her own four had highly resented the coming of the small nieces and nephew; they thought it an "imposition,'' and said so jn no uncertain terms; discussed "the task wished onto poor Mother by Uncle Bob's asking her to care for his babies. As if Mother hadn't done her share of this world's work when she'd reared her own (James, the eldest, had already married and settled in the city, seventy-five miles away, and the others were at college.) Just when things were getting so that she could take life easy—'' And so on, and so on, until Mother had pleaded, coaxed, and fairly shamed them into silence and a somewhat grudging acceptance of the duty they owed those helpless little ones. Six years had passed—on lightning wings. One after the other, Mother's children had become a definite, permanent part of the great city. James had acquired ownership of two factories, a large income, a fine home, servants, three children. Rilla had married, kept an expensive apartment, went in for clubs and society to fill the days of her childless existence. Pattline, earnestly applying herself to study and practice of painting and drawing, had launched upon a promising career as an artist and illustrator. Alvin had completed college and was well advanced in his chosen medical course. A family to be proud of, people said. And back in little old. Greenfields town, Mother remained, caring for Bobbie and Bessie and Janie—supremely content. Janie, at last, wriggled quietly from her lap and coaxed the 236 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE twins back to their play among the currant-bushes. Mother watched them go while something like panic took possession of her. She rose hurriedly, and went into the house to resume her work, as if being busy might restore her to her usual calm. But again and again the question returned: what would she do without these charges of hers—alone in her empty house? "New Mother," as Bessie had so quaintly termed her—would she be good to them? Mother felt a twinge of jealousy—and promptly administered unto herself a sound scolding. After that she shed a few tears; and began anew with increased vigor her preparations for the expected guests. The children hailed their father with delight. Towards "New Mother" they exhibited a grave shyness which quite captivated her, and before the second day was ended she had won them quite completely. Mrs. Knox decided, relievedly, that her brother's new young wife was entirely sincere and would truly be a mother to his children, a good wife to him. All too soon, they were gone—joyfully, noisily. And deadly quiet settled over the house, through which Mother moved, wreched with loneliness. When she could bear it no longer, she put on her hat, locked the doors, and went to visit her best friend, Tildy Howe, She came home at twilight, fed the chickens, milked the friendly Moo-Cow, gave tomcat Buster a great saucer full of the foaming milk. Minutes seemed like hours—it was as if bedtime would never arrive. Lonely tears threatened. And then, suddenly there was a joyous honking at the front gate, and James and Rilla and Pauline and Alvin burst upon her. The tears that had threatened, spilled over, and had to be concealed behind a lot of laughter and foolish remarks about nothing. But at last dignity was restored—and then the "children" explained the real object of their visit. They expressed regret that they had been unable to come in time to see Uncle Bob and his bride. Had Mother liked—her? Yes—Mother liked Aunt Jessie. "Well," sighed Rilla, 'it's much better for him—don't you think? These years must have been lonely for him; he loved the children so—and his home. I'm glad he's married again, and I hope they'll be happy." The others murmured agreement. "And now, Mother, you'll be coming to the city to live with us, now that you're free?" "Why, I—I hadn't thought of it—' Mother was plainly startled. "But, of course, you will think of it. That's what we came 'down here for—to take you with us." RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 237 "It's the only thing to do, Mother." Pauline assured her as Mrs. Knox sat in silence. "You shouldn't stay away down here alone, you know." "Why not?" demanded Mother. "There's far too much work for you here, dear. It's high time you were taking things easy, Mother." This from Rilla; from the others, more murmurs of approval. "But I like the work," protested Mother. "And I don't want to leave my home. Why—I've lived in Greenfields all my life. I don't want to go away." "Oh, we're not denying that Greenfields is the garden spot of the earth," Alvin spoke amusedly. "But after all, I've a hunch you'd like old Weston city pretty well after you've been there awhile." "You'll find city life most interesting," added James. "And you'll be where we can look after you, and not have to worry whether you're all right," contributed Pauline. "We'll make things pleasant for you, Mother'—Rilla again. "We want to make up to you for all these years of toil and sacrifice. You have worked so hard, it's resting-time for you "? Now., "But, good land;" ejaculated Mother, "old age hasn't claimed me yet! Why, I'm only forty-eight, and I'm strong as an ox, and healthy as—as—" she paused helplessly, then went on: "I'm not ready to settle down to lavender and old lace and smellingsalts and rheumatism yet—not by a good many years!" Through their laughter, Pauline spoke soothingly. "Of course not, Mother Goosey dear—no one wants you to; that isn't done at all nowadays. It will be tailor-mades and women's clubs, and golf, and things like that. You'll like them." "I'm not so sure—" began Mother. Whereupon they all started talking at once—entreating, arguing,—until Mother was hopelessly confused and bewildered. In the end they had their way—except that Mrs. Knox refused to arrange for the immediate sale of her home. Instead, she prevailed upon a neighbor's boy to look after things while she went to the city to "visit," as she insisted. But confidently, triumphantly, the children bore her away. They had planned for her with care and completeness, she found. A room in Rilla's apartment had been fitted up for her, and was to be her "headquarters," her home. But she was to feel equally welcome at James' house or Pauline's studio; Alvin, who lived at a club, would take a major share of looking after the "entertainment." Between them all, it appeared that every waking mcement would be filled. 238 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE For awhile she found in the new mode of living, a mild enjoyment. In her former visits she had seen but little of the city itself; now the children delighted in taking her out sight-seeing, again and again, until there remained hardly any place of interest which she had not visited. Then there were the big stores— veritable mazes of such wonderful, beautiful things she had not dreamed could exist; the theatres, where she was all admiring eyes and ears, marveled at the ease with which her sons and daughters discussed the technicalities of plays which to her were simply a mysterious form of entertainment; the libraries, with rows and rows of books and magazines calling to her to enter their world of make-believe. She learned to find her way about by herself, and set out determinedly to become familiar with the things that interested her beloved children. But when the novelty began to wear away somewhat, she became conscious that, after all, this was a superficial, a purposeless existence. No one was dependent upon her for anything; her own wants were taken care of entirely by others. She longed to cook, to bake—and was warned by Rilla that the maids would misinterpret and resent her presence in the kitchen. When she visited James and his wife and wished to romp and play a bit with her little grandchildren—she remembered in time that romping would be rather detrimental to beautifully marcelled hair and a stylish silk frock; besides, she stood almost in awe of their exceedingly competent French nurse who watched over them constantly. She tried a club or two; that helped, but did not materially lessen the increasing emptiness of her days, which grew longer and longer. The children, aware of her low-spiritedness, doubled their efforts to keep her happily occupied; but how could they guess, when she did not know herself, that what Mother needed was not more strenuous play, but a judicious amount of that good old leavening agent, work? Then she discovered Jennings' Park: its green coolness, its kindly shade for hot afternoons, its wide lawns, its lovely flowerbeds, and finally—its playground. She was with Pauline that day, in a shiny black little coupe, rolling leisurely over the smooth driveways, when a sudden turn brought them directly opposite that children's paradise. Mother sat bolt upright. "Pauline! Stop!" she almost gasped. The unexpected command startled the younger woman; the coupe stopped with a jerk. "Oh, my dear!" in dismay, "I didn't mean to frighten you! I just wanted to stay here awhile to—to watch the children playing." RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER "he Pauline's relief amounted almost to vexation, but she quickly controlled herself. "T''ll admit you did startle me; I thought I must be about to run over someone—or someone's child—or puppy-dog. I am immensely relieved." Mother did not answer; her delighted gaze was riveted on the scene before her. Children—in action—everywhere. Swings— slides—teeter-boards—a swimming-pool and a wading-pond. "Tt is interesting, isn't it?"? Observed Pauline. "I like to watch them, myself. Such a wealth of color! A living rainbow—or an animated flower garden. I've been here many times, sketching. I painted the 'Up in a Swing' you liked so well, from a drawing I made out here, Children at play offer unlimited artistic subjects and opportunities." In such vein Pauline talked on; but Mother hardly heard her. Children were not "artistic subjects" to Mother Knox; they were living, breathing human beings, men and women in miniature, meant to be loved and played with, cared for and guided. A lump rose in her throat. Children! Why could she not always have them about her?—To attend to their demands, play with them, caress them. No wonder these last months had seemed so empty; She, Martha Knox, one of those women whose only hobby, only passion, is home and children—trying to fit into a life of leisure! Idleness! A laugh—not of amusement—escaped her. Pauline looked around inquiringly. 'Perhaps we'd better go now," suggested Mother. Glad to get back to her room, to be alone, she sank into a chair; mechanically removed her hat and gloves, and, without rising, laid them on the dressing-table near by. She closed her eyes, thinking—thinking. At last she knew the reason for the failure of her feverish efforts to take up contentedly the life her sons and daughters would have her live; the explanation of laggard hours even though every moment were occupied. Leisure—the "resting-time" which the children maintained she had earned, and which they wished to assure for her—suddenly she seemed to see it as a long, long road through the coming years; a straight, easy, monotonous, often lonely, road down which she would journey—all but alone—trying to amuse herself. And this—this—was what would be called, "resting-time." She saw now, plainly, clearly—that it would never do. Her forty-eight years had dealt with her lightly; left her with unusual strength and vigor; the 'activites' which her children's world would offer her, might fill her hours, but they would never fill her hands nor her heart. 240 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE On the other hand—she thought of her home at Greenfields, remembered how still the house had been after her brother's family had departed. How much better would it be? At least, came the swift answer, at least there would be the housekeeping, the cooking, cleaning, gardening that she loved. And for the remaining hours—what? "There's got to be a way for me," she whispered that night as she lay in the darkness waiting for sleep. "Lord, help me to find the way!' she prayed. And having thus voiced her appeal to the One who would never fail to understand, she felt better and soon was deep in dreamless slumber. An impulse which she could not overcome lured her again, a day or two afterward, to Jennings' Park and a shady seat from which she could watch the fascinating scene that was the playground. She leaned back silently, dreamily, trying. To imagine that somewhere among those happy youngsters might be Bobbie. Bessie, Janie—or other little ones who loved her and would presently come running to her to tell some gleeful tale. A bright-hued rubber ball, half rolling, half bouncing, across the grass, struck against her foot. She picked it up and held it outstreached towards the little girl who came running to get it. She flashed at Mother Knox an adorable smile. "It tried to run away, didn't it?" "That's what it did," Mother answered. "But we won't let it, will we?" "We surely won't. It's a pretty ball isn't it?' Mother was delighted to have the child close to her. She edged closer now to display her treasure. "Tt's my very newest ball, and my Uncle Ted gave it to me. It has pictures on it; see?—This is Little Boy Blue, blowing his horn to make the cows and sheep come home. And this is BoPeep, looking for her pretty, white lambs. And this is Mistress Mary in her garden.—I have a little garden; have you?" Mother nodded. "Is it a nice one like mine, with pansies and daisies and lilies. In it?—Mister Jack takes care of mine mostly, 'cause he knows just how; but sometimes Mama lets me help him, and I get nice black dirt all over me. And then Mister Jack says—" "May Margaret!" called a voice impatiently. "Oh, there's my Nursie calling me. Goodbye, nice lady," and with a parting smile she was gone. Mother could hear the nurse saying crossly, "May Margaret, how often must you be tola not to talk to strangers? Some day somebody will steal you and take you away, RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 241 and you'll never see your dear, sweet mama again." And May Margaret was hurried away as if from some hideous danger. Mother flushed hotly, indignantly. The words of the nurse kept ringing in her ears; they spoiled the pleasure she had felt in being where she was, and presently, feeling unduly tired and alone, she decided to go home. A number of people were waiting to take the street-car, and, shyly, Mother Knox stood back from the crowd. The car stopped, they moved closer; she was near the entrance. Then she saw Billy.  Just what it was that made her stop still, looking at Billy, she could not tell. Perhaps it was the thinness of him, the raggedness of his clothing; or was it the silent pathos, the hopelessness that looked out of his big brown eyes, his too-old face? Perhaps it was not any of these; it may have been the tenderness with which he was helping a little girl, undoubtedly his sister, from the car. She was every bit as ragged, as uncared-for, as he; and it gave Mother a distinct shock to see how exceedingly skinny it was possible for a child to be. She could not take her eyes from this pair of waifs. "Billy." The boy turned instantly to face a sour-looking woman whose face was visible a. An open window of the street-car. "Billy, don't you fool 'round here too long. You get back *n time ta help, or you get nothin' ta eat. And don't lose yer ticket." "I’ll be careful, Mrs. Wayne," he promised. "I just want to take Margery over to the swings awhile." "See she don't get hurt, neither. I've got troubles 'nuf 'thout no accidents ta look after." "I’ll be just awful careful," Billy called as the car moved away. Mother Knox let it go; she had no desire to get back home at once, anyway—what she wanted, more than anything else, was to find out something about this Billy who touched her so strangely. She wanted to speak to him, but her recent experience with May Margaret had made her afraid; so she merely followed the two, at a descreet distance, as they went slowly through the park. The boy's devotion to the little Margery was apparent; no one could have been more gentle, more solicitous of her pleasure. When he had swung her, and see-sawed her, and let her wade a little while, and taken her down the slide, he led her to the merrygo-round and stood holding her hand as she watched the course cf the gayly-painted wooden steeds. Quite unobserved, Mother approached and stood near them. 242 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Wist we could ride on 'em," Margery said wistfully. "Why can't we, Billy?" Mother's hand involuntarily sought her handbag; but while she hesitated, Billy suddenly turned to Margery a brightening face. "Why, maybe I can fix it so you can, Margy. Say, listen, would you sit right here, and not move till I come back, if I give you a ride when I come back?" "Course, I will." He found a seat for her and hastened over to a nearby refreshment stand. He spoke to the man in charge, ''Say, mister, —anything a feller can do to earn a nickel?" The man grinned. "Whatcha want a nickel fer, Buddy?" "To give my little sister a ride on the merry-go-round." "Where is she?" Billy pointed her out. "Well, I'll tell you whatcha can do. See them tables over there?" indicating with a sweep of his arm. "Go clean away all them papers 'n' things folks left around 'em on the grass; then come back here." Billy made short work of the task set for him. "Plucky little scamp!" Mother applauded him silently. In a surprisingly few minutes he was on his way to Margery, his face shining, the nickel held fast in his hand. '"'Now you can have a ride, honey," he exulted. "Right now!" "You, too, Billy?" "No—just you," he smiled. Mother waited no longer. From her purse she took a bright new coin. "Billy!" she said gently. Startled, he wheeled about. "Here, Billy—take this—Margery would like you to go with her." He stared a moment in frank amazement. Then, "Why thank you, ma'am. Oh, thanks!' and hurried to get aboard. Mother stood near, smiling through misty eyes each time they passed her. She remembered the tremor that had been in his voice as he thanked her; she was aware now of his wideeyed curious gaze in response to her smiles. Concluded in the June Issue EDITORIAL Pateig) as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS. President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - -.. First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON -- - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General "Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor: - - - - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager:  - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, 'Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XII  MAY, 1925 No. 5 Seeing what the Missionary Predicted Concerning Palestine Today Jewish colonies are springing up all over Palestine, on ground forfeited by the Turkish government. Behind all this is an interesting story. The Turkish Government, often financially embarrassed in the past, accepted large loans from Mr. Rothschild, a wealthy Jew. As security for the loans, strips of land in Palestine, were asked for and received. These facts were first related in our hearing by a Latter-day Saint missionary, who had served in Palestine for a number of years. The elder predicted that the Turkish Government would never be able to return the money borrowed, and that in all probability the transaction would prove the opening wedge for Jewish colonization in the Holy Land. On the 16th day of February, 1925, we visited the beautiful sea port of Jaffa, and there saw a new city of from 15,000 to 22,000 inhabitants—Jewish, built in record time, on a strip of land that was once the property of Mr. Rothschild, but which is today the Jewish city of Tel Aviv. On the 18th of February, it was our pleasure to ride in an automobile between Jerusalem and Nazareth, and while en route we drove along the fertile plains of Esdraelon, and saw there a Jewish colony on land contributed by Mr. Rothschild. A group of such colonies may be seen throughout 244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Palestine. In Jerusalem we visited a hospital founded by Mr. Rothschild, which is being conducted by Jewish people. At present much interest is centered about Jewish colonization in the Holy Land. Some favor the movement, others look upon it with disfavor, but whatever the attitude toward the project, all are interested. The Missionary Home For many years there has been felt among our people a strong need for a place where prospective missionaries might have some sort of preparation for their field work and where returning missionaies might have a little encouragement and help before they lose themselves among the crowds at home. Such a place has now been established in Salt Lake City, Utah, just north of the Eagle Gate at the head of State Street. The quarters are both commodious and elegant, accommodating forty-two missionaries. The men occupy one side of the building-and the women the other. All the prospective missionaries, whether from Salt Lake City or from the outside, are expected to spend one week at the missionary home. A daily program is provided for the time spent here—temple work, sightseeing, amusement, study. There is careful supervision everywhere, from the time of rising at six o'clock to the time of retiring at ten o'clock. Nothing, whether farewell parties or visiting relatives, is allowed to interfere with this regular program. Parents of the more youthful missionaries may therefore feel that their sons are perfectly safe. As for. Returning missionaries, they are expected not only to report at the Home, but are asked 'to talk to the out-going missionaries with a view to giving them such practical suggestions as they themselves found useful. Also they are put in touch with employment agencies through which, if they wish, they may obtain work at the earliest moment and thus avoid the idleness that often results. We commend the Home to our readers. Mothers need feel no apprehension whatever concerning their boys while they are here. The Home is in charge of Elder LeRoi C. Snow, son of the late President Lorenzo Snow. Sel Kate Waller Barrett 1858—1925 Annie Wells Cannon "That day is best wherein we give A thought to others' sorrows; Forgetting self we learn to live, And blessings born of kindly deeds Make golden our tomorrows." How truly wonderful must have shone all the tomorrows that came into the life of this noble woman—Kate Waller Barrett, whose every day was filled with the glorious thought of doing good to others! Nay, though she has now finished her life's work and entered upon that golden tomorrow which is eternal, still will her kindly deeds follow her, while thousands whom she served and helped and loved, reverence and bless her precious memory! A kinswoman of General Robert E. Lee, she was born, and reared, and married and died, in one of those beautiful ancestral Virginia homes, so historic in the song and story of early America. It was her cousin, General Fitzhugh Lee, who gave her away in marriage, and merry and happy the throng that danced at her wedding and partook of the proverbial "Old Dominion" hospitality—a hospitality which, as many travelers and friends testify, has lasted throughout all her years, notwithstanding the changes and scars of time and war. 246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She was born January 24, 1858, at Clifton, Stafford county, Virginia, the daughter of Withers and Ann Eliza Stribling Waller, was married in 1876 to Reverend Robert South Barrett, who died' twenty years later. She received her early education at Arlington Institute, Alexandria, Va., and later completed a course in nursing at the Florence Nightengale Training School, at St. Thomas Hospital, London. After sixteen years of married life, and though, by this time, the mother of five children, she still felt the call of higher education, and in 1892 she was graduated with an M. D. Degree from the medical college of Georgia, being valedictorian of her class. From early girlhood she gave evidence of a marked forward-looking personality, and now in her young womanhood being admirably equipped for public work, she began a career along philanthropic lines. Her keen sense of justice and her deeply sympathetic nature were early aroused in behalf of young women whose neglected moral training had led them into forbidden paths, and she associated herself with the cause of the Florence Crittenden Mission, to which cause she gave many years of devoted service acting both as a member of the directorate, and as vicepresident, general superintendent and, from 1897 to 1909, president. During her term of office in connection with this mission Mrs. Barrett made a number of trips to the west, twice visiting in Salt Lake City. The result of one of these visits being the establishment of a home in Ogden, as well as once again when on her way to Japan, where she assisted in establishing a Crittenden Home.., Dr. Barrett was a delegate to the conference for the Care of Delinquent Children which was called by President Roosevelt in 1909; in 1914 the United States government appointed her a special representative to investigate conditions in Europe, surrounding alien women, and in 1919 she was a delegate to the peace conference at Zurich as well as a special representative in Europe of the U. S. Bureau of Immigration. She was the only woman appointed by the Governor of Virginia as a member of the Commission on Training Camp Activities during the World War; and prior to this she was a representative of the United States Government to the San Francisco and San Diego expositions in 1915. Among some of her other activities and positions may be mentioned the following: member of the Societie Academique Histoire Internationale, prominent identification with the conference of Charities and Corrections for Virginia, national chairman of the Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teachers Associations, state regent for Virginia of the Daughters of the American Revolution, honorary member of the National Council of Women of the Argentine, and first national president of the KATE WALLER BARRETT 247 American Legion Auxiliary, in which latter position she has been a mighty friend of the veterans of the late war, and by her special aid and inspiration has helped many of them to "carry on." It is, however, as a member dnd an officer of the National Council of Women of the United States that the Utah women became more intimately associated with Mrs. Barrett and knew her best. In this great organization she held successively the offices of second recording secretary, vice-president and _president, and it naturally follows that the delegates from the Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Improvement Association to the executive sessions and the council gatherings should become very closely associated with her. She proved herself a friend to the Utah women, and whenever occasion called for it she warmly championed their cause. A large delegation of Utah women attended the council in 1902, and after the proceedings were over, Mrs. Barrett invited them to her home in Alexandria, and with true southern grace threw open the rooms of that venerable mansion, then over two hundred years old, giving her guests the entire freedom of the place—to linger among the choice collections of trophies and relics gathered during many years travel in different parts of the world, or to rest in the spacious rooms among the quaint furnishings and family heir-looms. It was a rare opportunity and gave the visitors a most favorable insight into the domestic background of this charming magnetic woman. Two years ago Mrs. Barrett again came to Utah to attend a convention of the American Legion held at Price. Great attention was shown her by the men of the Legion and the women of the Auxiliary, as they could not but feel that it was an exceptional honor she conferred in coming so far to be with them in a state capacity. While on this visit she was entertained at a banquet in Salt Lake City by the Legion Auxiliary, and Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, President of the Relief Society, and Mrs. 'Martha H. Tingey, president of the Young Ladies' Improvement Association, and other officers of these societies, were invited as special guests, by Mrs Barrett's request, as her time was too limited to permit her to accept the entertainment the Utah women desired to give her. Mrs. Barrett died Tuesday, February 23, 1925, at her home in Alexandria. On the evening of her death she had attended a ball given by the Daughters of the American Revolution, and shortly after returning she expired from a sudden heart attack—the incident beautifully demonstrating the verse so typical of her nature: "She smiled at weary feet And said of waxing age, 'Would I be robbed Of life's last page?" 248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The funeral, held in St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Thursday morning, February 25, was a fitting tribute to a life well and fully lived. A friend in Washington, D. C., who attended, writes: "One could hardly imagine so many flowers. It seemed that every organization in the world must have been represented. Among the larger pieces were the State of Virginia, The American Legion, National A. L. Auxiliary, Kiwanis, Rotary, D. A. R., Army and Navy, etc., but the sweetest thing to me was the little bouquets brought in by the children and townspeople of Alexandria. There were hundreds of them, and while the size of the church did not permit all to remain for the service, it seemed to indicate more eloquent than words the love the home folks had for this noble woman. In fact this was the most human, the tenderest and most lovable feature of the whole funeral." It is said that Mrs. Barrett's home is to be kept intact for fifty years, the servants to go on living just as they have done, and nothing spared to make any one "coming home" comfortable. How beautiful to contemplate such thought for loved ones left behind! Mrs. Barrett truly lived every hour. She gathered from the book of knowledge and experience. She gave unbounded love and helpfulness. The brightness of her nature, the beauty and grace of her person, and the radiance of her soul, will be a cherished memory to all who knew her. To Mother Dear on Mother's Day Willard Greene Richards I left you, Mother, and my childhood's home— Not in a way that I had dreamed or planned— Although by nature much inclined to roam— I went obedient to a high demand. Ere twice ten summers over me had rolled— Deprived of you, it seemed for all my life! By woman's love man's acts are much controlled; What could I do but choose a faithful wife? Then followed welcome gifts of boys and girls, The only riches we have so far known— Ten precious "talents," priceless gems and pearls— God knows we want them always for our own! At home, I was your restless, jolly one, Falling on mischief for experiment, Finding a laugh where others saw no fun, But all my nonsense was with good intent. TO MOTHER DEAR 249 And in some future state, it may be heaven, Where family groups with order rules comply, Surely, dear mother, you will find your seven, The others will be there—and so will I! When angel ushers notice where I stand And "size me up" to see "if I am fit," Some one will know me and, with friendly hand, Direct where Father and his family sit. And when they see your gentle, saint-like face Smiling on me in loving, trustful joy, For me and mine near you will be a place, For Mother, I shall always be your boy. And we shall laugh when you, dear, take your place. Mother's Answer Lula Greene Richards My boys forever! Your first "hit" on earth, 'When three weeks old, was to create a stir, Making your father's mother laugh with mirth, As at first sight you gaily laughed at her. What have you done in five and forty years With loving help-mate more than half the way? I trust you find more cause for smiles than tears, As over days gone by you take survey. The Lord has favored you with children ten, A goodly count as now the world contrives; May they go forth true women and brave men, This world made better for their honest lives; And, in the next, with all our kindred race, Happy and bright will you and yours appear, And we shall laugh when you, dear, take your place, Like you and Grandma at first meeting here. The Editor Abroad From Great Britian To FRANCE; A VISIT TO CHATEAUTIERRY, AND THE PLACE OF THE ARMISTICE. Alice Louise Reynolds From Scotland our party went through the far-famed lake district of England, and on to Liverpool, where we had the pleasure, a second time, of visiting with President David O. McKay and family. While at Durham House, Sister McKay introduced me to the sister who is in charge of the Relief Society work in Liverpool. From Liverpool we went to London where we remained for something over two weeks, from thence to Paris, where we once again joined Professor James L. Barker and family. As we have not as yet finished our visit in great Britain, I shall take up that in another article; the plan being to devote this paper to material particurlarly appropriate for the month of May. Many nations appear to have special gifts, consequently they make special contribution to civilization. It is difficult to think of Greece and not think of sculpture, and equally difficult to think of Italy and not think of painting and music. France, the country to which we shall devote several articles before we complete this series, has only been surpassed by the Greeks in sculpture, and today it is the mecca of the art student of the world, for the French people appear to have the enchanters wand with which they turn all things to beauty. This coming summer will hold, in Paris, an Exposition of Decorative Arts. France is above all nations fitted to hold such an exposition, for in all probabitity she produces at the present time a greater variety of beautiful things than any other nation. In the heart of the city of Paris that has iar been called, by Karl Beadeker, the most beautiful city in the world, a site has been selected for the exposition that in itself is a place of incomparable beauty. If we approach it from the main thoroughfare of the city, the famoutChamps Elysees, we find two buildings dedicated to art exhibitions; these buildings are known respectively as the Grand Palais and the Petit Palais; they are in themselves gems of architecture, and are at all times devoted to art exhibits, the famous Paris Solon, an exhibition of the best art work done in the nation, being held there each year. Below these two noted palaces of art, buildings are in the course of construction for the exhibition. The last time we saw them was in the month of January, yet they bade fair even at that time to maintain the French reputation for art. The series of buildings is interrupted by the Seine River, over which one finds the Alexandre III THE EDITOR ABROAD 251 bridge, the most beautiful bridge we have anywhere seen. Then the buildings continue, the group finishing with the Invalides, the building which contains the famous tomb of Napoleon: I. This brings us to the special material for this article, for not a great distance from the tomb of Napoleon I we have an Arch of Triumph, of the place de |' Etoile, meaning the place of the star, for the city of Paris radiates from a center just as the spokes of a wheel go in all directions from the hub. Directly beneath this Triumphal Arch, reared to commenorate the achievements of Napoleon I, we have the grave of the Unknown Soldier. A very sacred spot has been selected for the grave of the Unknown Soldier in the United States, and Great Britian has honored her Unknown Soldier by placing him in Westminster Abbey; yet I can not help thinking that France has excelled the other nations, in the place she has selected for her Unknown Soldier. Only those who make a special trip to Arlington Cemetery may see the grave in the United States, and only those who step within the sacred abbey may see it in England; but in France, the grave is in the very heart of the city, with its full tide of humanity sweeping by; the pedestrian pauses to remove his hat, as he passes. Here, always, there are flowers on the grave and frequently large wreaths at the side; for visitors from many climes come to Paris and there pay their tribute and their homage to the valor of the French soldier, by placing a wreath upon the grave. This spot is further signalized by a flame of fire that constantly puts forth from the head of the grave. On the 11th of November, of last year, ceremonies of a solemn nature were held at the arch. We saw official Paris gathering as we followed one of the roads out of the city; for our party, consisting of Professor James L. Barker and family, Miss Elliott and myself, left Paris at 9 a.m. To visit some of the war stricken country and particularly to pay our tribute to the American boys who had given their lives at Chateau-Thierry. As we drove along we were soon in Crecy, a city of historic importance in the 14th century. Passing the public square we noted the monument reared to those who had died in the Great War. The central figure of the monument at Crecy is a noble looking soldier lad. About him is a group of beautiful children, with eyes turned up to him. The inscription reads: "The Homage of the Children of Crecy to their Elder Brothers." A short distance farther we were in sight of the historic Marne, and very soon we arrived at Chateau Thierry, facing the monument erected to commemorate the valor of our American boys. The monument consists of a broad base reached by a few narrow steps, with two pillars extending upward a distance of 25 feet, white in color. On one pillar we find the 252 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE words, "Death is Lost in Victory," and on the other "In God We Trust." Yet what appealed to me above all else at this place was a bank of fresh flowers with a purple band of satin ribbon across it, bearing the iscription: "From their comrades in arms and the widows of their comrades in arms, on the sixth anniversary of the signing of the Armistice." There was also a wreath from a French family dedicated to the valor of the American boys. As we rode along, houses that had been stormed at in frightful manner became more numerous, and at nightfall we were at Rheims. Rheims was a city of the size of Salt Lake, or nearly that, when the fury of the German guns was turned upon it. Of its 120 thousand inhabitants, only 70 thousand are to be found there at present. Of the 14 thousand homes 12 thousand were completely destroyed, or in part. Among other buildings that suffered the onslaught of the German guns is the beautiful Cathedral at Rheims. It is quite past my understanding how the people of the 13th century would create a thing so lovely; that it should have been Shattered in any way is one of the terrible consequences of the last war. One of the towers is in a sorry plight, but thanks to the generosity of Mr. Rockefeller, it is being restored. | Our party remained in Rheims over night. The next morning we visited what is known as the Red Zone. There we saw trench after trench, and barbed wire in rolls, and the great caverns or dugouts used by the men. Once we came across a huge shell that had not exploded, and every once in a while we saw a big tank turned on its side to rust. We were assured that inuch of the land we had passed over in the Red Zone could never be reclaimed. On we went to the Neverin Farm where is found a monument with a broad vase, which furnishes a commanding view of all the country round and where much of the fighting took place. This monument has at its top three gunners, one is said to resemble Quentin Roosevelt. We drove on, coming in the afternoon to the place of the armistice. It has been our good fortune to visit this spot on two occasions, and we assure our readers it is well worth visiting, for it seems to have been selected with that unerring tact, or intuition, or something else that marks the French in the dealings with matters of sentiment. In an open space in the rorest of Compiegne, one sees two railway tracks. They are not one hundred steps apart for we went over it ourselves to make sure. On our right hand side as we stood in the center, reading the inscription on the stone placed there, are the rails with a stone between marking the place where the German plenipotentaries arrived to sign the armistice. Opposite this spot, also between two tracks, is the slab that indicated the place where Marshall Foch arrived.. THE EDITOR ABROAD 253 In between the two rails is a slab that like the other two resembles granite, but is very much larger; on it are written words no doubt dictated by the French national heart. They are: "Here on November 11, 1918, the Criminal Pride of the German Empire THE MONUMENT OF THE ARMISTICE succumed, and was vanquished by the Liberty Loving Peoples whom they desired to enslave." At a distance of several rods from the place of armistice and to our left, stands a monument of great beauty and equally great suggestiveness. Its background is a French forest. In the midst of the verdure we see a granite shaft tipon a granite base. It is a thick, flat shaft with a net work of iron set in much the way a piece of insertion might be set into a piece of fabric. Through this net work a sword has been thrust whose point pierces a 254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE German Eagle with head turned completely down, and wings widely spread apart. During our two days' drive, through this war-smitten country, we passed four cemeteries, which consisted of long rows of white crosses, with narrow strips of red white and blue of France. Rehind them were long rows of black crosses where the German suldiers lie buried. On Thanksgiving day we drove out again from Paris, we were in search of the American cemetery at Belleau Wood. Enroute we came to a statue to General Gallieni, the French general who THE PLACE OF THE ARMISTICE, SHOWING THE TWO RAILS. THE RAILS NEAR THE TREES IS WHERE FOCH CAME; THE OTHER, WHERE THE GERMAN REPRESENTATIVES APPEARED commandeered eleven hundred taxi-cabs in Paris, each making two trips, thereby transporting eleven thousand men to the line of battle. This extraordinary effort won the battle of the Marne and saved Paris. At present historians are saying that this famous attack was one of the descisive battles of the world. In the early afternoon we arrived at Belleau Wood, again we saw white crosses marking rows of graves that were ninety long and thirteen in breadth. This appeared to be one half of the cemetery. In the center stands a flagstaff that, from its height, Icoks as if it might be of Oregon pine; at its top fluttered the Stars and Stripes. The grass on these graves was as beautiful on the 27th day of November as it would be in the best kept lawn in Utah on the Ist day of June. We now began to hunt the trail to - Quentin Roosevelt's grave. On our way we passed a second American cemetery that, like the first, is receiving great care. Between three and four o'clock we reached the place where the THE EDITOR ABROAD 255 former President's son lies buried. Ina spot apart from all others he sleeps; the slab over his resting place contains the date of his birth and the date of his death and the one sentence, ''He has outsoared the shadow of our night." As we stoud looking at the simple slab his youth clutched at our hearts, not twenty-one. We stepped aside to see the place where he fell; a slab placed there by his comrades marked the spot. France is rapidly building up the country made waste by the World War. As she recovers farms and rebuilds cities, the emotional life of the nation expresses itself in many and varied monuments. Many of them are very beautiful as well as very impressive. France gained the admiration of a beauty-loving world when she built the tomb of Napoleon I. Building monuments is not a lost art with her; for everywhere monuments of OUR PARTY SITTING ON THE STONE THAT MARKS THE EXACT PLACE OF THE ARMISTICE rare beauty are being erected tc commemorate the deeds of those who died in the World War. As we traversed the war-stricken country, we were made sad by the revelation of the suffering and destruction. Perhaps the questions put by the little four-year-old son of Professor and Mrs. Barker, are as illuminating as anything we can here include. Seeing the houses in heaps and sometimes with great holes gouged in their sides, he asked, "Mama, why did the mans shoot the houses?" Finally, to his insistent querry, his mother replied, "Because they were naughty." For some time he appeared to be turning the matter over in his little mind, then he put the question: "Mama, will the naughty men shoot the houses any more?" The mother did not. Answer this last question, neither do those counted the most wise of the earth answer it. Her Inspiration By Alice Morrill. I sought among the glowing stars Tor theme that might inspire. I gazed upon the mighty Deep And mountains lit with fire. Where storm-clouds heaved and lightening gleamed Where desert lay outspread, Where in the vaulting sky, the moon Shone still and fair o'erhead. I sought in vain. Nor stars, nor cloud, Nor flood, nor mountain fire, Nor desert deep, nor silver moon, Gave theme that could inspire. A soft hand plucked me by the gown; A babe my thoughts beguiled; I found my inspiration then In the eyes of a little child I had not time through motherhood The message to impart And so I treasured, all the years, The poem in my heart. Mother Mine Vilate Roundy If all the sweetest song-birds in the land Should carol forth your name with one accord, If all the flowers should mix their perfume sweet, And call the odor "Mother," sweetest word; If every breeze should whisper songs of you And every leaf should rustle to your praise, If all the sunshine were a flood of love— It wouldn't equal half your true love's rays. If all the stars that deck the firmament Should suddenly be shaken from their place And so arrange themselves that "mother" there Would shine, and neither storms nor time efface, Then, even then, your name would not assume One-half the glory that to me it means, That each throb of my heart says it deserves, Oh, Mother mine, the queen of mother-queens. NETTIE D. BRADFORD ELISE B. ALDER New Board Members Nettie D. Bradford By Ethel R. Smith With the priceless heritage of being well born, Nettie Maria Davis Bradford, recently appointed member of General Board came into the world on the 17th day of March, 1873, the anniversary of a day dear to the hearts of every Relief Society worker. Born of God-fearing, righteous parents, Albert W., and Melissa J. Labson Davis, the principles of the gospel, which have ever been her guiding star in all her activities, were early implanted into her soul. As a girl she received her education in the public schools of Salt Lake City and the Latter-day Saints University. Her activities in public life have been many and varied. For a number of years she was in the Presidency of the Primary Association. When very young, she was called upon to act as secretary of the Sunday School and as an officer in the ward choir and later was made president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association in her ward. For four years she was a regular ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple. In 1909, she was chosen first counselor to Mrs. Harriet B. Harker of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society in which position she labored, serving as counselor to both Mrs. Harker and Mrs. Harriet C. Jensen. On May 5, 1917, she was called to be president of the society and for eight years labored diligently and unceasingly for the benefit of Relief Society work in that stake. Mrs. Bradford is a born leader and 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE she carries with her into her work the true spirit of the gospel. Peace and harmony existed wherever she labored. It mattered not whom she gathered around her every element foreign to the Spirit of the Lord was eradicated through her gracious. And impartial consideration of her co-workers. No task was ever too difficult or unpleasant for her to undertake. Yet with grace and dignity she has accomplished all she has undertaken to do and modestly gives all credit to her fellow laborers. Mrs, Bradford has been always active in community uplift movements, serving as president of the Parent-Teacher Association for two years. She has served as member of the State Commission for the Adult Blind, under Governors Bamberger and Mabey and is at present active in this position. She is also vice-president of the women of the University. With her family she spent two years in New York City, and lived in Portland, Oregon, Seattle, Washington, and San Francisco, California during the periods of the World's Fair in these cities. While in San Francisco, she represented the Y. L. M. I. A. As an official delegate to the International Congress of Women and was a member of the committee appointed to extend to the Countess of Aberdeen an invitation to visit Salt Lake. She was also chairman of the Credentials Committee at the National Council of Woman Voters and represented her state at various functions as official hostess at the Utah building during the World's Fair. Mrs. Bradford was ably supported in all her endeavors by her husband and children. While she has been extensively engaged in public service her light has shone most brightly as wife and mother. A capable manager, an ideal housekeeper, her home has not suffered (because of her activities in public. She is the wife of Dr. Robert H. Bradford, head of the department of metallurgy at the University of Utah and is the mother of five children, three boys and two girls, four of whom are living. One of her sons is now serving on a mission to Great Britain. The others are actively engaged in church and educational work. As a true disciple of the gospel of Jesus Christ, a dutiful daughter, a devoted wife and mother and a lover of service, the General Board is greatly enriched by this addition to its membership. Truly did her father, a patriarch, say in blessing her, "The Lord is pleased with thee and has yet a greater work for thee to do." Elise Benson Alder By Amy W, Evans Lowell said that the training of a child should begin a hundred years before its birth. That the training of Elise Benson Alder began that far in the ELISE BENSON ALDER 259 past one carninot doubt. When one knows the history of her forefathers. In a beautiful home on the slope of a Swiss mountain, near Lake Geneva, lived Serge Louis Ballif, a gentleman of wealth and learning and his wife, Elsie Marie Le Coultre. A little daughter was born to them here, in the town of Lausanne, in 1850. She was named Louisa. Her infancy and early childhood was spent in an atmosphere of comfort, culture, and refinement. Latter-day Saint missionaries reached this family, and they accepted the gospel. Being of strong faith and high courage, they left their beautiful home, with servants and ease, but took with them the culture and refinement, and came to America and to Utah. Meantime, in America Ezra Taft Benson, an industrious New England farmer, felt impelled to move west.. He and his wife traveled until they came to Quincy, Illinois, where they heard the faith of the Latter-day Saints and were convinced that it was true. Through his zeal and ability, not many years after he joined the Church, he was made a member of the quorum of apostles. He and his wife with others were expelled from Nauvoo and went with the Saints to Garden Grove, when, on the Ist of May, 1846, in a wagon, a son was born to them. This little son, George Taft Benson, and the little Swiss girl Louisa Ballif became the parents of Mrs. Alder. They were both leaders wherever they lived, in civic as well as in Church affairs. Her father was bishop of Whitney ward for twenty years, and her mother president of Oneida stake Relief Society for sixteen years. Mrs, Alder was born in Logan, March 10, 1873. Eleven years later her parents moved to Preston, Idaho, later her father was called to preside as bishop over the Whitney ward, and it was here that she spent her girlhood and the early years of her married life. She attended the public schools and the Agricultural College at Logan. Her success as a teacher in the schools of Whitney, attracted attention, and she was asked to teach the, primary department at the Oneida Stake Academy, which she did for three years, until her marriage to George Alfred Alder, son of George Alfred and Lydia Dunford Alder, October, 1895, in the Salt Lake Temple. Eight children have been born to them, six boys ahd two girls. Two of their boys died. Their eldest daughter, Ione, who recently returned from a mission to the Western States is a graduate nurse, Lydia their second daughter is a trained social worker, and is with the welfare department at the presiding bishop's office. Lyndon, their eldest son, is attending the North Western 260 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE University at Chicago. The other children are in school at Salt Lake City.  "An officer in every auxiliary organization of the Church," can be said of Mrs. Alder. Music always attracted her, and she has led boys' choruses, women and children, as well as a ward choir. The Whitney choir under her leadership entered a contest at an Eisteddfod at Logan and carried off first prize from the eleven competing choirs. Her husband filled a mission to Germany and on his return they moved to Salt Lake City. It was here that her work in the Relief Society really began. She became president of the 20th ward society in August, 1915. In November of the same year Richard W. Young, then president of Ensign stake, called Mrs. Alder to be president of the Relief Societies of that stake, which position she held until November, 1923, when she was released at her urgent request, having met with an accident which prevented her giving that attention to her duties that she felt they demanded. Her one thought was that the work of the Relief Society must not suffer in any way. Asa Relief Society ward and stake president she was a splendid success. When she was called to the general board, she he! D the position of chorister in the 20th ward of Salt Lake City. A warm and loving heart gives Mrs. Alder a magnetic personality, this with her natural eloquence, her optimism and faith make her a leader among women. These qualities with her broad and varied experience will make her a valuable member of the General Board of Relief Society. She wishes to give the credit of whatever she has accomplished that is worth while, to the training she received from her father, her mother and to her husband, who is a great student and lover of the gospel, and. Who has given her much help and encouragement in whatever she has been called to do. And no doubt some of it is due to the training that began a hundred years back. LARGEST CLUB IN THE WORLD PLANNED BY WOMEN The American Women's Association met in New York on the 5th of April and made plans for building a nineteen story structure to cost $3,000,000, which is to be used for a woman's club. It is to be built by women, financed by women and run by women. The plans provide for a club house of one thousand bedrooms, which will be rented to members for considerably less than hotel rates. Psychology of Child Feeding Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education The problem of child feeding is complicated by the responsibility of having the child enjoy food prepared for him. Many mothers have all but despaired because of the difficulties of having the small member or members of the family group eat what they should. Some of the best trained nutrition experts often share the difficulties of the less trained mother. It is reported that one of the best known women in this field in sheer desperation took her baby to her mother where she left careful formula as to composition and amount of food and expressed the hope, before she left, that her mother's common sense and experience would be more effective in bringing the child up to weight than she had been. The report is that the more placid grandmother was mutch more successful in getting the child to enjoy the carefully prepared food than his own mother had been. Much more has been printed, it is true, on what to feed rather than how to have the child eat what is prepared. One reason for frequent failure is lack. Of purposeful early training. Babies form habits at a much earlier age than is generally supposed. Some pediatricians claim that babies can be spoiled in terms of learning to cry for what they want before they are one month old. Habits of taking water at this early age and enjoyment of slight additions to the diet a little later are both necessary training for good standards in nutrition. The tired child does not eat. This should be remembered by parents anxious to have their children up to standard. You may draw upon the experience of children you know. If Mary has walked from town or been to a party where there was far too much excitement for a two-year-old, the food will not make much of an appeal. In fact the extra excitement as well as lack of appetite may cause her to lose a little in weight. Nine-year-old Fred may have played ball until he reached the point of exhaustion so that at meal time he is very apt to find fault with everything and only eat very little. When dessert is served the few minutes rest may have been sufficient to have him enjoy one serving and ask for more. It is possible that he may eat his meal backwards. In cases such as this it might be less annoying if the child rested for fifteen minutes before trying to eat. This is common practice in the Merrill Palmer School of Homemaking, in Detroit. This one half million endowed school which is pointing the way in child care is accomplishing child training with a 262. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE group of children that is very satisfactory. It is the custom there for every child to rest on his individual cot for 15 minutes before the midday meal. This quiets nerves, takes mind away from play and popularizes meal times. Very often, too, children are able to accomplish where grown-ups fail in establishing food habits. A healthy, happy youngster whose food habits are excellent will - be able to do what Mary Lou did in the following: The instructor in charge of the lunch table group had exhausted all of her resources in trying to get Anna to eat her spinach. Every attempt had been rebuffed with a stubborn shake of the head and the reiterated statement "Me don't like spinach." Mary Lou saved the day by saying, "Eat your spinach, Anna, and you may-serve my dessert." “Honest, will you, Anna?" eagerly asked Mary Lou. "Sure, I will, I'll stay at the table and you may serve both mine and yours." Anna ate the spinach with quite as much enjoyment as she did the dessert later. A great deal of trouble results from thoughtless adults and untrained children in maligning good foods. If children are to be expected to eat the foods they should, common sense should prevent any criticism or derogatory comments on dishes or foods. The patient work of several years in getting good food habits established in a child may be demolished by having some one sit at the table and make remarks against milk, vegetables, etc., which are usually not included in the food repertoire of people who have poor food standards. Another thing that adults should be made to see is that it is their responsibility to eat foods that will help keep them in good physicial condition. When there is another generation who have had the right kind of training in food selection and enjoyment, the problem of child feeding will be much easier. The movement dealing with foods in relation to health has reached only a comparatively small number of parents and young people. There are still men and women who believe that the typical American diet of bread, meat, potatoes and pie is adequate. To people having this ideal unfortunately the present standards in child feeding approaches the burlesque. When the grown-ups are converted to the need of right selection of food, children can be held up to standard. Usually a child is not very naughty if he finds he is outside the group. If the grown-ups do not offend in terms of food habits, few children will "make faces at good foods." Mothers would not allow children to make faces at guests they do not like, why then should they allow them to make faces at foods they imagine they do not like. The child allowed to do this will surely not avoid the rocks later or when he is more entirely responsible for his own actions in society. ' The best kind of psychology in child feeding is to out-general PSYCHOLOGY OF CHILD FEEDING 263 any tendency of the child to misbehave. For instance, in a certain family where children have considerable freedom, fouryear-old Louise pushed her dish of spinach away from her plate with the remark, "No want it." After two attempts of having her forget her first decision, nothing more was said as these parents believed that meal time should be happy. Louise was out-generaled, for at the evening meal the spinach, carefully reheated, was placed on her plate and no comments were made. After playing outside all afternoon she was hungry and enjoyed it and the rest of the food without any protest. Another clever mother overcame vegetable dislike by asking quietly when her nine-year-old Henry hasn't eaten his simple salad, "Are you ready to leave the table, there is ice cream for dessert?" Needless to say the reward of ice cream overcomes any momentary prejudice against buttered beets. Where children are over-fond of meats, very small servings will encourage them to eat vegetables if the suggestion is made, "Three tastes of vegetables can be eaten with these three tiny pieces of meat." Very often children are ignored too much at the family table. They like to be considered worth some attention, courteous inquiries, such as, "Getting along all right, Sam?" will encourage them to live up to expectations. Anticipating needs with a very few suggestions as to how to eat will help Sam form correct table manners which are going to be important when he becomes a part of the larger social group. The habit of correctly using spoons or forks and napkin are valuable training in social consciousness. Even husky Bill, who is always hungry, will soon learn that he doesn't need to make noises when eating. A few words of commendation when he shows signs of improvement will gradually make him a satisfactory member at the family table. Satisfaction which results from being well trained in the niceties of the table will also help in putting over good food habits. Where there are young children in the family, it is a distinct advantage for the family to eat foods which are on the approved list for children. This will facilitate training of the child and avoid tendency on the part' of grown-ups to belittle foods which are not enjoyed. The following story which illustrates the fact that children are born imitators may be suggestive: Mrs. Thorn's small son Bobbie and four-year-old Mary had developed definite dislikes for some of the foods necessary for growth. Mrs. Farnes, the next door neighbor, helped her analyze the situation. Mrs. Thorne gave a sigh of relief when she saw the kindly neighbor at her door. "Oh, do come in," was her cordial greeting. "I don't know what to do; Bobbie wouldn't touch his milk last night and Mary refused carrots today. Why 264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE don't they tell us how to get food into our children's mouths as well as tell us what to feed them?" "Why did Bobbie refuse his milk?" inquired the older woman quietly. "Well," replied Mrs. Thorn, "he put it as far from his plate as his small arms could reach and said, 'Daddy don't drink milk, Bobbie don't drink milk.' " "I see," assented Mrs. Farnes. "You know," Mrs Thorn continued loyally, "Robert can't drink milk, he was sickened on it when he had typhoid." "You mean he thinks he can't," smiled the neighbor. "Only. One person in ten thousand can't really take milk. Children are born imitators and are very quick to respond to suggestions. Robert should see that his responsibility as a father includes milk consumption, and he mustn't allow Bobbie to lose the splendid start he has by imitating the poor food habits of his daddy." "I hope that he will see it,' Mrs. Thorn quickly responded, "as I am afraid, too, that Mary's growing dislike for vegetables is partly due to the fact that her father prefers bread, meat, potatoes and pie to a more varied diet." "Successful home discipline is cooperation,' Mrs. Farnes continued, "if Robert will only see the necessity of this, I think you need not worry, for I am sure a more liberal supply of milk, vegetables and fruit will help to prevent the headaches which he so often has." After some discussion of the problem of converting Robert, Sr., Mrs. Thorn decided to work out a scheme which would make her family better food sports. Accordingly, she decided that with Robert's help they could all eat foods that only part of them now enjoyed. After talking the matter over with Mr. Thorn, who had been on his college football team, he decided that for the sake of Bob's athletic future he couldn't afford to handicap his possible success. Family food habits are like family budgets. They are a cooperative rather than an individual affair. Both, too, are alike in that they have a distinct moral value. Ability to keep within possible expenditures, or skill in making the right selection of foods gives a feeling of satisfaction. Sometimes failure in establishing food habits results from over anxiety on the part-of the mother. Too much discussion on food values and individual responsibilities tend to prejudice a sensitive child toward dishes or foods. Success is frequently attainedby appealing to the make-believe element in the child's nature, The following means was adopted by one mother: "Four-year-old Dorothy scarcely ever had real hunger pangs.; PSYCHOLOGY OF CHILD FEEDING 265 Mrs. Mack was, however, most careful to see that her child ate her food. Part of the mother's schedule included 15 minutes after each meal for food plays with her much loved baby. After Dorothy had eaten about a third as much as she should, and was ready to get down from the table, games similar to the following. Succeeded in getting her to eat enough food to keep her close to normal weight. "The teeth fairies want a drink of milk to make your teeth nice and big," this wise mother would remark casually. " "How much do they want?' the fastidious child would ask, "Oh, they want down to here,' and baby would hold the glass until she saw her fingers. "Now they have all they want, haven't they? She would observe happily. "*Yes, that is fine for the teeth fairies, but this little finger bone needs milk to make it strong. Shall we give it some with this nice cereal?' "When the little finger was fed, Dorothy asked, “Will my little finger be big enough for Dolly to hold on like I do Daddy's?” "Tt will be, soon,' responded the mother as she started a campaign from another quarter. 'The stomach fairies: would like some toast and butter so they can help the milk make your teeth nice and white.' "Are those all of the hungry fairies, this morning, mother?' "Yes, dear, they are all fed now, is Dorothy going to be mother's fairy and carry dishes to the sink?' "All right, mother. Sing fairies with me,' and they sang, "Fairies carry plates, Fairies carry spoons, Fairies help to dust In all our rooms," "Mrs. Mack believed that fairy suggestions in foods was more successful through keeping up fairy plays in real things and she also believed that she was a better mother by living with fairies with Dorothy." There is nothing mechanical about a child's imagination; a mother has need of all her inventiveness and all her wisdom to train her little ones in habits of health and proper eating. Former Resident—"Didn't this used to be called Adam Street?" Resident—"Yes, but we have a woman mayor, so it was changed to Eve Street." Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart Will you give some suggestions on making and serving salads? There is nothing that appeals to the appetite, especially in the Spring, more than attractive and palatable salads. The so called salad plants, as lettuce, watercress, endive, not only stimulate the appetite, but cool the blood, furnish vitamins and please the eye. The essentials of a good salad, are crisp greens, good dressing and attractive garnishes. Tiny radishes, green and red peppers pimentos, beets, carrots and stuffed olives cut in various shapes are very attractive. The kind of a salad used depends upon its function in the meal. Serve a green salad of salad plants, cucumbers, radishes, tomatoes or other similar vegetables with dinners or hearty luncheons. Use meat, eggs, fish, chicken or other substantial salads for the main dish at supper or luncheon. Fruit or fruit and cheese salads, make good desserts. Salad plants should be washed very carefully. Drained well, and chilled thoroughly. Vegetables that require cooking should be boiled in slightly salted water, until tender, but not broken. Chill before cutting them in pieces. If canned vegetables are used, always heat thoroughly and then chill. Uniform pieces are easier handled and are more attractive. Do not mash or crush or your salad will look mussy. An uncooked dressing of oil and vinegar or lemon juice is best for green salads. For substantial salads, mayonnaise or some. Form of cooked dressing should be used. One of the most useful contrivances in a house where there are small children is a baby pen. I invented mine when my children were small and now it has been handed down to my grand-children with equally good results. I procured a wooden box two feet eight inches square and eighteen inches deep. I lined it with two layers of cheap cotton batting fastening it well all round with carpet tacks. This I covered with medium dark washable material, and tacked it neatly over the edges and down the corners. Under the latter I placed castors, making it easy being inhospitable. Hospitality is one of the chief charms of a rug laid in the bottom, under which in winter may be placed a warm brick, completes the pen. When the baby begins to stand, the edge of the box is just hight enough for him to grasp, and raise himself up. He can exercise, have all his playthings about him, be protected from draughts and if he falls asleep will be safe for a short time—Mrs. G. J., Mt. Pleasant, Utah. OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 267 It is said that busy housewives do not welcome interruptions in their work and for this reason they are often credited with being inhospitable. Hospitality is one of the chief charms of a woman who is a real "Queen of her Home." Here is a suggestion: Have handy by a piece of handiwork or art work—something you have longed to do, but with your multitudinous homely home duties have never found time to accomplish. Let it be something simple requiring a minimum of attention, of course. When your caller comes, piece up your loved bit of work and indulge yourself during his stay. Whether he be an agent for a brand of carpetsweeper, a solicitor, or your best friend, you will find yourself regretting his departure, and in a short time a finished piece of beautiful work will appear to give you added joy —Mrs. A. M,,. Tridell, Utah. When ironing I keep two needles near by, one threaded with white, and the other with black thread. Any articles of clothing I find with buttons missing, or that needs a few stitches taken, I mend at the time. It helps to keep our clothes in good condition and saves time both in handling and in mending them.—Mrs. E. S., Bloomfield, N. M. From old shirts in which the tails and half sleeves are good, (even if the elbows and collars are worn out) can be made serviceable and pretty sack aprons for small girls. The back of the apron can be cut from the front of the shirt. The buttons are serviceable and pretty sack aprons for small girls. The back of the shirt makes the front of the apron. The upper half of the sleeves will make short sleeves, and the pieces left will be plenty for pockets and belt.— Mrs. J. F. S., Heber, Utah. If the small baby garters cannot be obtained, sew loops of one-half inch tape to baby's stockings, then run the safety pin through the loop when pining them to the panties. This is a great stocking saver—Mrs. N. R., McCannon, Idaho. This is a good way to use up old newspapers or wrapping paper. Take any amount of paper and roll rather tightly to a good sized roll, about as large as an ordinary stick of wood. Dip in water just enough to wet the paper through. Do not unroll. Lay the rolls in the window or any place most convenient and let dry in the sunshine. Then put away for hot summer days. You will find they make a good fire when you want to cook something quickly and do not want the house to get hot —Mrs. V. E., Shelley, Idaho. One Phase of Motherhood Susan T. Jennings. Everyone has his faults. Jim Jenson, Jr. Was no exception. His was pronounced and obvious aversion to water. That is, to be more explicit, to water when it was associated with soap. Of course, he wasn't averse to its thirst quenching properties, especially when it formed the basic fluid of a soda fountain drink, neither was he averse to it when it ran in juyously cooling waves in the swimming pool. It was decidedly the associated variety that Jim openly and avowedly held a distaste for. It seemed unfortunate, from Jim's point of view, that he and his mother did not just agree on these finer technicalities as to the various uses of water. No doubt their neighbors might have summed up their differences in the word immaculate; for Julia Jenson was an immaculate woman. She averred Jim ought to take frequent and thorough washings. Jim averred otherwise. This otherwise attitude peeved Julia considerably. Sometimes she complained to Jim, Sr. When he returned home of a week end. Jim, Sr's. Vocation took him from home most of the week. Saturday marked his return. It also marked a thorough renovation of bedding in the Jenson domicile, with an application of fresh linen. So it could not be wondered at that Julia, being of the immaculate order, should be slightly edgy towards nightfall on that particular day. Jim, Sr. Was an even tempered man. He never took his wife's complaining too seriously. “He'll come to it. Julia," he always soothed.; "But I can't understand him, Jim, to be so negligent of his appearance, to not take more pride in himself. He doesn't take after you in that respect, not in the least." Inteut on vigorously polishing a cut glass bowl and gazing admiringly through it» crystal lights as if were reflected therein the polish that always attended Jim, Sr., she failed to note that that gentleman to whom the pretty compliment was directed had made no answering comment and to all appearances had suddenly become short sighted, at so close a range was he holding his magazine. 'You'll see that he takes his bath to-night, won't you, Jim?" And Jim, Sr. Did see to it, although it took considerable persuasion on his part. "You'd better try and please mother about this washing business, Jim," he advised. "If you endeavor to please your mother ONE PHASE OF MOTHERHOOD 269 in little things, some day she may strain a point to please you in some big thing, eh?" Jim eyed his father soberly, his reasoning appealed to him. Of course, he would have much preferred reading until bedtime, then rolling in. "But, oh well! Women were fussy over little things, that was their nature. And men? Why men left the fusing for the big issues. There was a difference,' Jim concluded, as bristling with cleanliness, he jumped into bed. Monday morning Julia felt slightly out of sorts. Perhaps it was due somewhat to Jim Sr. Telling her he wished he never bad to leave them. She was wishing it, too, all morning. Jim, Jr.'s general air of frousiness at the dinner-table smote on her fastidious cleanliness and tended to heighten her depression. She waited till he rose to go. "Jim, dear, you'll wash, won't you? But Jim was already to the door. "Oh, Ma, let a fellow alone," he protested, "I'm going to play football, so it wouldn't do any good, anyway." "But Jim, you must:" Julia though, was talking to space. She felt exasperated.; Along in the afternoon she had taken up some sewing and was thus 'absorbed, when the front door opened noisily and closed to with a bang. And Jim, Jr. Bounded up the stairs. Suddenly Julia realized that the faucet in the bathroom was turned on at full force; and there floated to her the unusual ebullience of Jim washing. "Could it be possible?" Julia's sewing involutarily slipped from her hands. In a sort of daze she moved towards the stairway, but was almost precipitated by Jim who came bounding downward with the same rapidity of movement with which he had ascended but a few moments before. He was fairly shining, a. Soft fragrance wafted to her. "Jim!" she gasped. "You're the best boy!" But with a -backward grin Jim had vanished. Julia whisked into the kitchen. She was aglow with elation. She would make doughnuts for supper, Jim was so fond of them. She had read somewhere that parents ought to show in some way their appreciation for a child's compliance with their wishes. This would be her way. In the process of doughnut making it came to Julia Jenson that in the way of being a trainer of children, she was indeed a success. It had taken persistence on her part and firmness. She wished Martha Mason would call. She would like to tell her how effective her handling of Jim had been; how effective it had proved in helping him overcome his failing. It might be a hint to Martha in the training of her own children. Martha was 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE altogether too lax. Julia had always considered her children somewhat unruly. It required firmness. As if to grant her wish, a few days later Martha Mason appeared in the doorway. Julia welcomed her. Martha was a big hearted woman with always a sunshiny smile; more, she was always a sympathetic listener. But on this visit, Martha did most of the talking. She had new neighbors, the recently appointed president of the college. Julia made several futile attempts to introduce "Jim," but each time Martha waived her unceremoniously aside with, "I knew he'd come to it," as if the subject were of the most trivial importance. Of course it was interesting to hear about the new president and his family. What a nice, common, every-day sort of man he was; and to hear about his family, his lovely sociable wife and friendly, unselfish children. But she would liked to have talked more of Jim. She was therefore rather glad when Martha rose to take leave. She followed her to the door and stood watching her from one of the windows. Somehow Martha's visit had had the effect of dampening Julia's spirits. She felt listless, disinterested in outdoor things, being scarcely aware of Martha's greeting a young ccuple who were crossing the street above. But the girl attracted her even at the distance, she appeared modest and unassuming. Julia was trying to place her as her eyes moved with a flicker of interest to the girl's escort. There was something familiar in the way he walked, the broad shoulders, the swing of the long right arm reminded her of someone, someone she had known. Why it was Jim! Jim, Jr.! Her own boy Jimmie, and with a girl, of all things! They had passed from her view, and somehow Julia staring into vacancy felt indignant; more, she was hurt, humiliated. He hadn't even told her and she always made such a confidant of him. The girl was a stranger. Wearing his best suit, too! Humph! The idea! Julia turned from the window and took up a piece of embroidery. For a few moments she worked rapidly. Her cheeks were flushed. She was trying to harness her thoughts, but Jimmie and the girl persisted in obtruding upon them, interweaving themselves with her stitches. Somewhere deep down in her bosom, Julia was sensitive of a little ache, an indefinite longing for something—she knew not. What. If Jim, Sr. Were only home! A half hour later Julia was still in the same position, her fingers idly toying her work. The flush was gone from her face, she was pale, pain-eyed. The little ache was still there, but now in a blurred subconscious way she was striving to trace it to its source. Strangely she was passing Jimmie. Jim, Jr., then was not the chief offender, passing Jim, Sr., for he wouldn't have caused her pain for all the world, neither would her old friend ONE PHASE OF MOTHERHOOD 271 Martha. She had reached the source, the girl stranger. There was a frown gathered on her forehead. To think this slip of a bobbedhaired girl had more influence over her boy in a few short days acquaintance than his mother had had in years. All this bathing and dressing and fussing himself up; even to the helping himself freely to her expensive Hotskiss, had been done solely with the view of winning the approval of this stranger and not with any thought to please his mother or pay respect to her wishes. To be sure, Jim, Sr., had seemed to have an intuition. Hadn't he fortold Jim would come to it? Martha, too, had had a like intuition. How obtuse she had been! The frown on her forehead deepened. Oh, this vast scheme of life! This inexorable passing of time! The inevitable destiny that gave to a mother a son; then when she bad raised him to manhood, and he had become dearer to her than life itself, took him from her and gave him to another woman. So thought Julia, rather somewhat bitterly, as she gazed moodily across the street. But even as she thought, a sweeter and finer influence was at work with her; for Julia Jenson was a good woman and receptive to higher influences. Gradually the things about her faded away, there crept a tenderness about her mouth, her eyes grew dreamily reminiscent. In her mind's eye she was viewing another street, one that hedged in all the dear familiar things of her girlhood. She was viewing another boy and girl. A strapping youth with an odd swing to the long right arm, and a slender girl with long, black plaits. He had playfully pulled those plaits the first time they met. After that he had somehow fallen into the way of walking to and from school with her. It had been a happy courtship, theirs. Supposing though, Jim's mother had disapproved of her, had refused her, and not taken her to her motherly bosom, and told her she loved her like she was one of her own daughters! Julia shuddered. Why it would have been in the way of being a calamity, it would have broken up her life, their lives. And they were meant for one another, she knew it. Jim felt it, too. Supposing, supposing, Julia moved uneasily, her inward monitor was boring deep. Supposing this stranger girl was meant for Jim, that she was Jim's affinity, that in her he had found his life's companion, his soul mate? Would she, his mother, want to come between them? Would she want to break up their young lives, and sap their future of its joy? Was this her motherhood, her mother love? Julia's hands flew to her eyes as if to blot out an ugly sight. She sank back overwhelmed, while her thoughts raced, unchecked, along the channels hitherto strange * * * on * * * and * * * on to sunny vistas where romped merry children, There were other little Jimmies and little Julias. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman SAN JOSE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CALIFORNIA MISSION California Méssion The San Jose branch, California mission, while small in number is a very active organization, with an average attendance of 80%. Most of the members take the Relief Society Magazine. The Society has placed the Magazine in the public library and in many homes where it is impossible for the sisters to attend the meetings. A non-church member is among the subscribers. The temple fund for the year 1924 was subscribed 140%. The Relief Society, with the other auxilliary organizations in the branch, is concentrating its efforts on raising funds to assist in the building of a chapel. Mrs. Sophia Harmon is president of the San Jose branch. During the summer months, 1924, the Binghampton, Arizona, branch Relief Society took a course in home nursing and first aid from the University of Arizona at Tucson, and they are now planning to take a course in dietetics. The work is given in the extension department, a teacher going from the University to Binghamton to give the course. Northern States Mission The Relief Societies of this mission contributed $72 for temple work in 1924. Effort is being made for even a better 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE record for 1925. The slogan for the coming year is, "At least one day's temple work for each member." Southern States Mission Each year new interest is added to the Relief Society work by the women of the Southern States mission, and the spirit of the work is felt in the outlying districts where there are no Societies. A new organiation has been effected in Miami, Florida, and in a short time the organization purchased an organ and contributed more than a hundred dollars to an unfortunate member who had an afflicted husband. The Richmond Society gave substantial aid to the needy members in another branch. Los Angeles Stake The Los Angeles stake Relief Society, at a cost of $239.50, furnished the living room of a club house for working girls which has been established by the Business and Professional Women's League of Los Angeles. Only girls under Zl years of age, who earn less than $16 per week are admitted to the club house, where they are furnished room and board at $5 per week. In addition to this and to the regular work of the organization, the stake has spent $100 for membership in the Child's Mental Clinic and $10 for membership in the Calfiornia State Conference of Social Work, and has contributed 214 articles to the children's hospital. Relief Society women are in touch with the social agencies of Los Angeles and are becoming known there for the good work they are doing in various lines. Minidoka Stake The Minidoka stake reports a very successful clinic held in Minidoka county under the Sheppard-Towner provisions, with excellent follow-up work. The stake Relief Society with other groups assisted at the clinic where 125 cases were examined in the two days and the follow-up work is being done by the state field nurse in company with President May Jones, and Counselor Zilla Smith of the Relief Society. It is found that in nearly every case the advice given has been carried out, which has brought about the good results which obtain. Blaine Stake The women of the Relief Society of the Blaine stake have, with their neighbors, profited by the health work recently provided for by the Red Cross. Jane Delano, American Red Cross nurse who died in France in 1919, left as a memorial to her parents, funds sufficient to put on five nurses for field work for from three to five years. The Delano committee under the direction of Judge Payne, head of the Red Cross work, appoints the nurses to the territory where NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 they shall labor. At a regional conference of the state of Idaho held in Boise, the subject of the Delano nurse was discussed and it was decided to send one to the rural parts of central Idaho. Miss Janet Worden was given this appointment and she gives from five to six months' continuous work in a county. She has worked very successful in the southern part of Blaine county in cooperation with the Relief Society organizations. The following is a report of her work from September, 1924, to January 1, 1925: home visits to sick cases, 168; pupils examined in 24 schools, 670; defects among these children as follows: eyes, 193; ears, 49; teeth, 289; nose, 179; throat, 225; skin, 34; lungs, 4; heart, 8; glands, 84; underweight, 98; overweight, 42; poor posture, 34; poor nutrition, 48. Many corrections of these defects have been made. Definite goitre was found in one school in 45 children and now they are all taking the goitre treatment prescribed by the physician. There were also 250 mothers interviewed by the nurse; 34 sanitary inspections of school buildings; 108 second personal visits to homes about children's defects; 90 pre-school children and babies weighed each month; 12 lessons given in home hygiene and care of the sick (classes held for adults), with 101 pupils taking the course; 129 miscellaneous visits to parents; 3,075 miles traveled by car, and 792 miles traveled by train and sled. Box Elder Stake It is interesting to note that out of 163 maternity cases reported in Brigham City, from January to November, 1924, seventyseven used the Relief Society maternity bundles. New Zealand Mission Elder Joseph H. Olsen, president of the Wellington conference, pays the following tribute to the Relief Society Magazine: "A few days ago I was in the home of one of our Relief Society presidents and chanced to see the Relief Society Magazine. I picked it up and hurriedly scanned the contents thereof. It is replete with inspiring articles and gems of wisdom. Through its pages the voice of the Relief Society is carried to the ends of the earth like the sound of a mighty trumpet which encompasses the world with its message of love, good will and spriitual lift. The far-reaching result of this publication can hardly be comprehended. Even here in New Zealand, the very southernmost corner of the Lord's great vineyard, the spirit of the great Relief Society work is brought into the homes of the Latter-day Sapte both the Maori and European, through this splendid periodical." Franklin Stake Previous to the group convention in 1924, a contest was 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE put on in Franklin stake Relief Society with a view of increasing the attendance at the convention. The stake was divided into the east and west sides, and a chairman appointed for each division. Both sides worked faithfully as the results will show. Ninety-seven percent of the officers, teachers and class leaders of the east side were present and ninety-four and a half percent on the west side, the west side falling down on account of sickness in one of the wards. The agreement was for the losing side to entertain the winners. Accordingly, at the next stake and local officers' meeting the west side entertained with a short, spicy program, after which delicious refreshments were served. Salt Lake County Stakes The Salt Lake county Relief Societies recently presented the County Infirmary with two handsome victrolas to be placed in the men's and women's halls, respectively. The superintendent reports that these instruments are a constant source of joy and pleasure to the patients. The stakes which made the presentation are Ensign, Liberty, Salt Lake, Pioneer, Grant, Granite, Cottonwood, Jordan and Oquirrh. Summit Stake In the passing of Mrs. Jane Elizabeth Lemon of Kamas, January, 1925, the women of Summit stake are reminded of her long and faithful service as president of the Morrell ward Relief Society covering a period of forty-one years. There are two especially interesting features connected with Mrs. Lemon's term of office—she and her two counselors, Mrs. Julia Woolstenhulme and Mrs. Christina Larson served together as a ward presidency forty-one years and for thirty-five of the forty-one years, during which time there was no ward house in this small community, all Relief Society meetings were held in the homes of the presidency and her counselors. Mrs. Lemon was not only active in Church work but was a successful midwife and homemaker. She was the mother of nine children. Eastern States Mission Miss Pearl Snow was recently appointed' president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission, and since her appointment she has visited the Relief Societies in Boston, Lynn, and Salem, Massachusetts, and Charleston and Huntington, West Virginia. Big Horn Stake A very successful Relief Society conference was held in the Big Horn stake Saturday, Februbary 7, 1925. An instructive program was carried out which consisted of three excellent musical numbers and talks on the following subjects: The Need of  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277 Missionaries at Home, Music and Literature in the Home, Household Arts and Household Management. All three of the topics were handled in a very able manner. The ward reports showed that the Relief Society work is steadily growing and that a good spirit prevails throughout the stake. Millard Stake Following is a report of the health clinics recently held in the Millard stake: Clinics were held in five of the largest wards in the stake. In one ward all families, where there were small children, except three, attended the clinic. All wards seem interested and are prepared to hold a clinic every three months. Parowan Stake The Parowan ward Relief Society celebrated March 17 ina very fitting manner by entertaining at a social in the afternoon in which the public participated. After the opening exercises a fine program was rendered consisting of musical numbers and short speeches. The life and some of the poems of James Whitcomb Riley were given by Miss Rose and Mr. Hanson, instructors of the Parowan High School. A delicious luncheon was served after which the Society held a very successful bazar, having for sale women's and children's clothing, fancy work, quilts, and rugs. In the evening a pageant entitled "Grandmother's Dream" was very ably presented to a large and appreciative audience after which the remainder of the evening was spent in dancing. Pocatello Stake One of the most enjoyable events of the season, and one long to be remembered by those privileged to be present, was the observance of the eighty-third anniversary of the Relief Society by the First Ward Relief Society at the L. D. S. Tabernacle. The demonstration of a Relief Society business meeting took place on the platform, the presidency seated around the table and the "audience" was the Relief Society choir. Conducted in strictly parlimentary style, the service opened with a hymn, and invocation. The minutes were read and approved, reports received, suggestions for improvements offered, and new members initiated. The program consisted of readings, duets, and remarks by Mrs. Emily Gladwin, followed by solo dances, the Scotch reel, Irish Wash woman and the Money Musk. A delightful surprise of the evening was a colonial minuet in costume, representing President and Mistress Washington; General and Madame Lafayette; Lord and Lady York; Lord and Lady Cornwallis, and others. To the strains of "Humoresque" by Dvorak, played as a minuet, a double file of colonial people filed into the ball room from east and west entrances, and joined their escorts in the center of the hall and danced the minuet to sweet music. Called upon for remarks, 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Bishop M. A. Pond said he revisioned past history in the program of the evening, up to the time when the Pocatello branch of the Church was organized, May 6, 1888, and his mother was made the first president of the Relief Society, and he had known every succeeding leader. He called upon Mrs. Martha Pugmire, president of the Relief Society stake board. Mrs. Pugmire stated that she was more than delighted with the successful program and in closing admonished against holding ill will against anyone and to forget and forgive offenses and live in peace. The hall was beautifully decorated in Irish colors. Dainty refreshments were served. Benediction was pronounced by Elder Arthur W. Hall. My Little Babe By Fern J. B. Russon He knows No greater heaven than his mother's arms— This little babe of mine— Nor moon nor bright sunshine Is half so fair nor half so full of charms For him as mother's smile; And every little while He turns upon me such a searching gaze, It seems my very soul he reads and weighs: And, finding naught but love and tenderness, Of silken finger-tips. Soft cheeks and rosy lips. And if, perchance, his tears must fall in vain While swift I speed through urgent duties plain, He seems to understand And with a busy hand, He turns again his playthings to subdue And make them comprehend his wishes too. F'er long I lift his sturdy little form; Close in my arms he nestles, snug and warm; And, creeping round my heart in wond'rous glee, A sweet, warm rapture bids chance murm'rings flee. Ah,—tender babe of mine— Love's lustre deepens with these needs of thine. Teachers' Topic for July Recreation 1. Play is nature's method of effecting growth and development.. 2. Recreation is conducive to good health. A. For children. B. For adults. C. Parents and children should play together. 3. Play is the spirit of wanting to do. 4, The swing, the sliding board and sand pile in the back yard or porch are excellent for strengthening the child's body and making him happy. 5. Mothers are missing supreme joy by not taking their little children on a day's picnic to some nearby stream or grove of trees or even in their own shady back lawn. 6. Latter-day Saints have always felt it a duty to provide suitable recreation for both old and young. Baby's Skies By Abbie R. Madsen Baby's skies are mother's eyes; Don't you, know 'tis true, Don't much matter What their color, Brown or azure blue, Just so long they sparkle, twinkle With a love divine, You will see that adoration From baby's eyes will shine. Baby's skies are mother's eyes; Don't you know 'tis true? And it matters, If there passes Just a cloud or two, Very soon a wee lip quivers Then you see a tear, Now you've blotted out a sunbeam From one you hold most dear. YOUR GARDEN BULBS PLANTS SEED Now is the time to plant Dahlias, Cannas, Gladiolus and all annual Bedding Plants and Seeds. The most complete stock in the Mountain States awaits your selection. Get Free Catalog PORTER-WALTON CO. 42 W. 1st So. Salt Lake City  A Half Hundred Courses National Summer school Each an Event NCLUDED in this rare educational opportunity are courses by such celebrities as McCollum on nutrition, Miss Wilkerson of New York on costume design and home furnishing and Miss Binzel of Columbia on child psychology and habit formation. Teachers, mothers, nurses, doctors and others will find a rich selection of courses in the Second National Summer School. Graduate or undergraduate courses for term of 6 weeks or full quarter. Your choice of 28 famous educators. Utah Agricultural College Logan, Utah 1st Term: June 15 to July 25 2nd Term: quarter. July 27 to Aug. 29. Tuition fee: $25 for 1st term: $35 for quarter. Write for Catalog. ARE YOU HAVING The Relief Society Magazine Bound They are a valuable asset to any library. We can supply you with index for 1921-1922-1923-1924 at 15c each. Each association should have their volumes bound for reference. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine —Is Kitchen Work Tiresome? Eye-strain is responsible for a very large share of the blame for woman's weariness. Working in poorly lighted kitchens makes every task harder by far than it need be. Eye-strain too often leads to nervous irritation that has serious consequences. The remedy is the DAYLIGHT KITCHEN LIGHT. It drives away the shadows and brings good cheer to the kitchen. During April you may try this wonder light at our expense in your kitchen for 15 days—then if you do not want it tell us and we will remove it. $6.50 if you keep it—75c a month. Phone our nearest office for the man to call with the Great White Light. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair...$1.50 Box of Three Pairs$4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable. All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine XII  NOW ON THE MARKET A full pound for only 25c. Kitchen King Cocoa has real quality. TRY IT—COMPARE IT If you are not satisfied the grocer will refund the full purchase price. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine VOL. XII JUNE, 1925 NO. 6 At the Dawning Grace Ingles Frost 279 Portrait of President Charles W. Penrose Our Beloved Leader The Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City Relief Society Conference Minutes Greetings and Report. Clarissa Smith Williams 283 Preparation for Group Conventions on Amy W. Evans 288 Efficient Stake Supervision Lotta Paul Baxter 289 Reports of Stakes on Maternity and Health Work 291 Disaster Relief Annie D. Palmer 296 Supervision in Employment.... Lydia Alder 301 The Transportation Problem Cora Kassius 303 Family Ties Amy Brown Lyman 306 Teachers' Topic for August 325 Editorial—A Fitting Tribute 326 The Contribution of the Emigrant 326 Resting Time for Mother...... Mary H. Woolsey 328 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and ee a Year—25c Single copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah For our success we are indebted to our friends Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 65 West First South ICE CREAM a CANDY: CAKE Was. 3223 PUNCHES; deliciously different Delivered PHONE WAS. $223 CALLAWAYS?  "THE GIFT STORE OF THE WEST" The only line of Imported China and Glass Novelties in the city. Gifts for every occasion. Prices to suit the purse. Wonderful showing of colorful and artistic Glass and China for Weddings and Anniversaries. Special Attention to Mail Orders 66 MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY Make Sturdy Boys and Girls Our fine quality bottled milk gives health, strength, energy, ambition and success to boys and girls too. It is the best food in the world for growing children. "Daily Deliveries Before Breakfast" CLOVER LEAF DAIRY Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits for Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention 0 Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p. m General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (a Silverware S V7 159 WEST 1st SO. "7 Dinnerware S) WASATCH 2177 At the Dawning By Grace Ingles Frost In the gray shrouding mist of the morning, When roses hang heavy with dew, When quietly throbs heart of nature, My soul reaches out unto you. And in the deep silence unbroken, Save sounds there some bird's native song, I enter the Holy of Holies, Where hallowed memories throng. Within the vast walls of that temple, Unveiled for the moment I stand Face to face with You, God of my seeking, And know the firm clasp of your hand. And when dawn flashes over the hill's acres, Her quivering arrows of gold, I greet her, grown strong for the conflict, Of all that the day may yet hold. PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE Born February 4, 1832; died May 16, 1925 Our Beloved Leader Charles W. Penrose is dead! His like never has appeared among us before, and never will again, for the conditions out of which his life arose and in which it developed will not probably be repeated. He was the exceptional man. He was one of "the poor rich men," of whom we cannot hear too much in these days of materialism— poor in the things of temporary value, rich in the things of permanent worth. For he sought to apply God's measuring-rod to whatever he wished to evaluate. Although he served his Church and community in various ways his outstanding achievement lay in his work as writer and preacher. He was not an editor, but a Man in the editorial chair; not a public speaker,. But a Man in the pulpit. Ready of pen, he could dash off an article while others were thinking about it. Quick of wit, he was also penetrating of thought—a rare combination indeed. And his expression was clarity itself. Whether as writer or preacher, as politician or churchman, as citizen or official, he was always the Lover of Truth as he came to know it. This was his passion. He loved God with all his heart, and served Him day and night without stint. His out-pushing intellect delighted to play about the outposts of thought. But always, too, he was the Knight in Armor. The battle-field was his native ground—as many an antagonist has seen to his hurt. For his pen and tongue were not only trenchant, but caustic as well. His very name is synonymous with "Defender of the Faith," and ever will be. He has gone to join that noble company of other Defenders—Joseph Smith, the Pratt Brothers, Joseph F. Smith, and others whose thoughts and feelings he shared in life and will share in death. May he rest in peace! The Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, Where the General Meetings of the Relief Socie ty Conference were Held THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII JUNE, 1925 No. 6 Relief Society Conference Minutes Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The official conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, April 2 and 3, 1925. The first day was devoted to officers' meetings; the morning session was limited to general and stake officers and board members, and the afternoon session included, in addition to general and stake officers, the ward presidents. Two general sessions for Relief Society workers and for the general public were held the second day, at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. At the officers' meeting 18 members of the General Board were present, 90 of the 94 stakes were represented, and 5 of the United States missions, including Hawaii. There were in all 535 delegates; 71 stake presidents; 5 mission representatives, including 3 presidents; 88 stake counselors; 46 secretary-treasurers; 190 special stake officers and board members; 135 ward presidents and visitors. The attendance at the Assembly Hall sessions was 2,850. President Clarissa S. Williams presided at all sessions of the conference.. The ushers were provided by Grant stake, and gave excellent service at all the meetings. The musical program was under the direction of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister. Special solo numbers and selections by the Relief Society choir were rendered, adding much to the spirit of the meetings. Miss Edna Coray, general organist, acted as accompanist and furnished appropriate opening and closing numbers. The general board entertained the visiting delegates at a reception at Relief Society headquarters, on the evening of April 2. OFFICER'S MORNING SESSION President Clarisa S. Williams President Clarissa S. Williams opened with greetings of welcome, expressing appreciation for the faithfulness and devotion of Relief Society officers, 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE New Boarp Memsers: President Williams introduced two new board members, recently appointed: Mrs. Nettie Davis Bradford, and Mrs. Elise Benson Alder, who had been sustained by the General Authorities of the Church and the General Board of Relief Society. Mrs. Bradford and Mrs. Alder have both heen successful and devoted Relief Society workers, Mrs. Bradford serving for nine years as president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Alder for ten -years as president of the Ensign stake Relief Society. Warp CONFERENCES ON SuNDAy: President Williams explained that it is the desire of the General Board that Relief Society ward conferences be held on Sunday in preference to any other day. The General Board is anxious for the work of the organization to be put before the people of the ward and it iS felt that this can best be done in a Sunday meeting. Where ward canferences are held on Tuesday or any other week day, the public generally is not in attendance, and inasmuch as the board wishes to acquaint the public with the Relief Society work, it has been definitely decided to recommend that all ward conferences be held on Sunday. By consulting with the bishop and the Relief Society stake president, it is felt that Relief Society women will be able to obtain consent for the Sunday conference. SoctaL Service InstrTuTES: President Williams reported that a course in family welfare work is being given at Relief Society headquarters under the direction of the General Board, with Amy Brown Lyman in charge, assisted by Miss Cora Kasius and Miss Lydia Alder. This course is being given for the benefit of the Salt Lake county stakes—nine in number. Five delegates are attending from each stake and the course will cover a period of twelve weeks. In conducting this course, the General Board has the full cooperation of the Presiding Bishopric. A short course of twelve lessons was recently conducted by the Palmyra stake. The attendance included the ward bishoprics, ward Relief Society presidencies, and the stake board. The program was carried on under the direction of the General Board. Revise Socrety TEMPLE Donation: Questions have been asked by many officers and workers regarding the Relief Society temple donation. Inquiries have been made as to whether this fund is ever to be used for temple maintenance, or for any other purpose than for work for the dead. In answer to this question President Williams stated that the fund which is donated by Relief Society women for temple work, namely, 50c by each woman in the organization for the endowments of a woman who has passed away, is donated and should be used to pay for temple work, and should never in any instance be used for temple maintenance or for other purposes. Each woman in the Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 285 either goes to the temple to redeem one woman, or she contributes 20c for the redemption of one woman, and the money so contributed and donated should be used for this purpose only. If in the past it has ever been used for any other purpose it must have been through a misunderstanding. Wherever contributions are made, an explanation should be made that this money is donated specifically for temple work for women and is not made as a general donation for temple maintenance or other temple activity. It has been recommended that where possible names from local organizations be sent in with the money. Where this is not done the letter accompanying the money should explain specifically that the money is for temple work. Temple funds may be sent directly to the temple from the Relief Society, or they may be turned over to the genealogical committees in the stake and wards to be sent in with stake and ward names. RESPONSIBILITY OF OFFICERS IN REORGANIZATIONS: There still seems to have been some misunderstanding in some of the Societies, regarding the division of funds at the time of reorganizations. It is recommended by the General Board that funds which are on hand in the stakes and wards at the time divisions occur, should be divided between the new and the old organizations. The General Board recommends that when a stake or ward is divided, that such stake or ward divide the funds on hand at the time of the change proportionately with the number of members in the new division. The funds are often divided equally, although the new group may be smaller than the old one. Revier Society Funps: The question has been raised as to whether the Relief Society should contribute from its funds to the ward for general ward purposes. It has been brought to the attention of the board that frequently money is needed by wards for special ward work, and the Relief Society has taken funds from its treasury either from the general fund or from the charity fund, and has presented them to the ward for these various purposes. The General Board has been instructed by the General Authorities of the Church that funds collected by the Relief Society for general Relief Society purposes, or for charity or health work, should be not diverted or used outside or the organization ~ itself. Funds collected for the Relief Society should be used within the organization itself and should not be diverted for ward maintenance or for other general ward purposes. If the Relief Society is asked to give any assistance to the ward proper, funds should be raised especially for such purpose, and in some special way, without disturbing the Relief Society ward treasury which consists solely of Relief Society funds raised for Relief Society work only, and not for other purposes. The General Board realizes that the Relief Society is a very large group in the ward 286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and that this group should be willing to assist the ward in raising funds for such purposes as in the opinion of the bishop should be fostered by the auxiliary organizations; but it would seem much better for the Relief Society, under such circumstances, to make special effort to raise this special fund for the particular purpose desired by the bishop and the ward authorities, rather than to take funds from the treasury, which have been contributed for other purposes. It is advised that where money is needed for ward purposes, and all of the auxiliaries are asked to assist in raising this fund, that the Relief Society take part with the rest of the auxiliaries in this general duty, without disturbing in any way the regular Relief Society ward funds which have been contributed by the members of the organization for the Relief Society work proper. The wheat trust fund should be held and the interest used for health work, including maternity chests and bundles and health clinics. -The expenditure of this fund, especially, should be under the direct supervision of the Relief Society stake presidents. It is further advised that Relief Society funds be not hoarded but should be used for the, promotion of Relief Society work. Nurse ScHooL_: The General Board is still interested in the training of practical nurses or nurse aids, and it is hoped that before many years a definite course for practical nurses or nurse aids may be arranged for. The General Board regrets that the nurse aid's course at the L. D. S. Hospital was discontinued, but the hospital was asked to eliminate this course, or its grading would be lowered. There are some hospitals in the United States which have succeeded in putting in a short course in maternity nursing only, and it is hoped that our hospital here may be permitted to do likewise. In case this can not be worked out, the General Board may decide to reopen its theoretical school for practical nurses, and stake presidents may be called upon at any time to assist in fostering such a course. Crinics AND HeatrH Centers: There has been some objection on the part of physicians in various parts of the state to the health clinics and health centers which have been established under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. Wherever health centers or clinics are to be introduced it would be a wise plan for the local committee, on which the Relief Society iS represented, to take the matter up with the local doctors in the community with a view of getting their cooperation and support. It should be explained to them that the opening of clinics is not designed in any way to interfere with private practice. These health centers and clinics are supposed to make examinations only, and refer all work to the family' physicians. It is only natural that doctors who have spent a large portion of their lives in training RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 287  for their work would resent having people given free treatment under the auspices of the state or of private agencies. Doctors are usually willing to do charity work where it is recommended, but they object to having people who are. Able to pay for medical work given free service. Community workers should therefore make it plain to the local physicians that the health centers and clinics are only for examination and that all treatmen will be referred to them. QUINQUENNIAL CAMPAIGN: As state chairman for the Quinquennial Committe of the International Council of Women, President Williams thanked the stake and ward officers for the splensupport given the central committee of the state in raising the state quota. The fund was raised to help defray the expenses of the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women, to be held in Washington, D. C., in May 1925. The National Council will be the hostess on this occasion, for the International Council, which is made up of the National Councils thirty-six countries, with a membership of thirty-six million women. Mrs. Williams explained that she was named by Mrs. Philip N. Moore. President of the National Council, to act as state chairman of Utah, and she was notified that the quota for the state was $3,500, and that the fund was to be raised by all the groups in Utah affiliated with the National Council. The following organizations in Utah which are affiliated with the National Council sent delegates to the meeting called by President Williams: League of Women Voters, National Woman's Relief Society, National Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, Women's Relief Corps, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Women of the G. A. R., American Association of University Women, National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teachers' Association, Women's Christian Temperance Union, Young Women's Christian Association, Medical Women's Association, National Auxiliary of Spanish War Veterans, American Legion Auxiliary, Service Star Legion, State Nurse Association, the Temple Sisterhood. The representatives assembled decided to raise the fund by asking every member of every affiliated group in the state of Utah to contribute 10c toward the state fund. Immediately after the meeting held early in November, letters were sent out to the local presidents of the various groups and there was such a hearty response from the women of the state to the appeal of the central committee that in less than three months the quota was raised and torwarded to the 'president of the National Council. Mrs. Moore hastened to acknowledge the receipt of the contribution from the state, and to inform the chairman that Utah was the first state in the union to send in its quota. The Relief Society responded in its usual prompt and liberal manner, as did other affiliated groups, and 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Utah accordingly raised its ful] quota. As General President of the Relief Society, as well as State Quinquennial Chairman, President Williams extended her heartiest thanks and gratitude for the generosity of the Relief Society women. PREPARATION FOR GROUP CONVENTIONS Mrs. Evans said: In Preparing for group conventions the first step is to plan carefully every detail concerning the conduct of the Relief Society meetings, By so planning, time is saved and the object of the convention more successfully accomplished. As soon as the conference date is known it is well to get in touch with the Presiding authorities of the stake and arrange for your meeting place. Estimate the number expected to attend the stake and local officer's meeting, then be sure that the room assigned is large enough; also that there are enough seats— in the room add much to the: proper atmosphere of the meeting. Seme time is saved if the hymns are selected before the meeting begins, and the chorister understands exactly what is expected In order to assure a good attendance one stake sent written invitations to every ward, with a special request that the ward president attend. Extend very cordial invitations to. The bishops. Stake and local officers' meeting would be well. Of the priesthood, at least the advisory high councilmen should attend the stake board meeting. As ithe Program contains a topic on ward teaching, a great effort should be made to get ward teachers to attend. A warm welcome to the ward officers from the stake officers helps to create a good spirit. In some places the stake officers stand at the door to welcome the people, until five minutes before the opening of the meeting.: The General Board Tepresentative takes to the convention an attendance blank which should be in the hands of the stake secretary before the opening meeting of the conference, The president's report should include a summary of the special activities, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 289 and should tell of the things which cannot be told by figures. If the executive officer's meeting is held at noon, make the luncheon of secondary importance. The stake Relief Society presidency should be ready with good suggestions for the general preparations for the convention, in case they are asked for them. Lack of preparation and planning has a dampening effect, while well-thought-out arrangements make for a successful convention. EFFICIENT STAKE SUPERVISION Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Member of the General Board This little talk is culled from the reports of the successes of efficient stake leaders. I wrote to some of the stakes and received their replies and am giving them to you here today just as they were sent to me. If it had been possible to have written to all of the stakes in the Church we could have found valuable material from every stake in Zion, but I wrote to only a few of the nearby stakes. The replies I received to the letters I sent out were an inspiration to me and J will read extracts from them: Successful Relief Society work depends upon close cooperation with President Williams and Secretary Lyman, and upon counseling with the Priesthood stake presidency in all contemplated activities. There should be complete understanding and harmony with counselors and all members of the stake board. Unity of stake board in thought and purpose and equal division of responsibility are essential. In one stake each board member is requested to present two new ideas each month for the benefit of the work and these ideas are considered in board meeting. Careful preparation for and conduct of union meeting is beneficial. Proper supervision and help given in union meeting to ward leaders react in the ward work. If work of the union meeting is of a high standard, the ward work is apt to be the same. Stake workers should earnestly seek the Spirit of God to guide them in their responsible work. The most efficient stake supervisors are spiritual-minded women who have a firm testimony of the gospel, a love for the work, and a vision of the future possibilities of the organization, and who know their officers and workers and are willing to cooperate with them for the good of the work. An efficient stake supervisor will also uphold and sustain the Priesthood authorities. Leaders should have an understanding of Relief Society work and be possessed of a sincerity that will attract people and will win their devotion and support. Stake officers and board members should be selected prayerfully and with great care, with a consideration of each member for the 290 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work she can best do. Board members should understand that their work means individual responsibility as well as true cooperation. This applies to ward organizations also. To ask of others only that which you would be willing to do yourself is a good motto for officers to heed. Effort shoud be made to interest as large a number as possible in Relief Society work, having as many as possible share the responsibilities. ° A sincere testimony of the gospel is fundamentl for successful leadership. This, combined with executive ability and desire to serve, would make always for success. To leave the work, not only with better methods but with more faith in the soul of every member, should be every officer's goal. A first step in supervision is to gain confidence and support of all Relief Society workers. To be a successful leader one must be able to include many people of different temperaments in the work and possess the ability to find good in all. A leader must possess self-control and tact. Supplementary to these reports, I have found in my own observation that one of the great contributing factors toward efficiency is to have the advisory high counselors and stake presidency thoroughly informed regarding all activities and ideals of Relief Society work. The Relief Society stake president should make it known to the stake presidency that it is very desirable to have live, active, interested members of the High Council appointed to cooperate with the Relief Society in their work. If for any reason the brethren chosen are unfamiliar with the Relief Society activities, the president should make an effort to inform them regarding the work and interest them in it. Efficient stake workers will see, among other things, that the annual report is in the hands of the general secietary on tine; that stake and ward records and accounts are up to date; that the special date to collect and send in annual dues be observed; that all Maqazine lists of subscribers be. Written legibly and promptly forwarded, and that all Relief Society funds be safeguarded and used for the purposes for which they were donated. Relief Society conference delegates should return home from conference with a firm determination to comply with and put into practice, as nearly as possible, all suggestions and recommendations of the General Board. They should endeavor to carry to their local officers the spirit of the conference and a summary of the instructions. Members of the General Board have visited you in your various stakes and have witnessed your devotion to this cause, and the standard of efficiency you have attained. We have all come home filled with admiration for your efforts and splendid results. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 291 Your Share You don't have to carry the whole of the load; The world only asks what is fair. The task will be done and the burden be borne, If everyone shoulders his share. There's a part of the work that's intended for you, And, be you a boy or a man, You've nothing to fear at the end of the day, If you do just the best that you can. Don't bother so much about somebody else; Just think of your own little work. If you only keep busy, you'll not have the time To notice how other folks shirk. Do all that you can to bring cheer in the world And overcome evil with good. There's no need to fear or cherish regret, When you've done just the best that you could. —Louis E. Thayer. REPORTS OF STAKES ON MATERNITY AND HEALTH WORK President Williams called for three-minute reports from a number of the stake representatives present, regarding their work in the interest of the maternity and health work. She explained that the Relief Society women have been cooperating with the state health departments very successfully in the administration of the Shepphard-Towner Act. The Relief Society, throughout the organization has supported the state health departments in conducting clinics and health centers. In addition to the cooperative program with the various state health aepartments, the Relief Society has been working out a program which includes the establishment of maternity chests, bundles, and layettes. The stakes were called in alphabetical order to report their work along these lines. Alberta.—The stake has established a maternity chest, supplied with bundles and layettes. Each ward has one bundle. Additional clothing is on hand in the stake maternity chests, for sale or for gifts to the needy. There is a good hospital in the stake, with three fine physicians on the staff. Alpine —Three health clinics have been held. The stake is divided into districts each of which has maternity bundles. In two of these districts there are hospitals, and the bundles are kept at these hospitals. The high school teacher has asked for 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the privilege of having her domestic art Rimdlentd make layettes. Many minor operations have been performed. The doctors have been very willing to cooperate in the work. Bannock.—Health clinics have been held, and valuable lectures on nutrition and health have beer given by the local doctors, nurses and county agents. Bear, Lake—Each ward has made some effort toward establishing maternity bundles. Several wards are beginning to fill their maternity chests with emergency supplies. A number of wards have bundles for use in case of death. A clinic was held in September where ninety children were examined. Follow-up work has been done in all but three of these cases. During the summer months courses are planned in nutrition and child welfare and used when there are no regular outlined lessons furnished by the General Board. Bear River —There are three health centers organized in this stake. These are carried on by competent committees, upon which the Relief Society is represented, which operate under a general committee composed of the stake board. In those wards which are centrally located the health centers have been established, and are equipped with the necessary articles for carrying on the work. The centers are well attended and the doctors very willingly give their help and support to the work. All wards have maternity chests and bundles. All the maternity work done by the Relief Society in this stake has been financed from the interest on the interest of the wheat fund. It is planned, if necessary, to use the wheat interest itself later. Beaver—The Relief Society women of this stake assisted with the Red Cross roll call, and were allowed 50% of all money collected through them to assist in the maternity and health work. They have also used the interest on the wheat money. A clinic is held one day each month at Beaver, the central location. The local doctors and nurses have cooperated and given their services. Much good has resulted from the examinations made at the clinic. The clinic is proving to be very beneficial to the young prospective mothers in this stake. There are no maternity bundles in the ward as yet. Each ward has on hand bed pans, and other emergency equipment. Benson.—Seven health conferences have been held in six different towns, and every ward has had access to these conferences. Very effective follow-up work has been done. The physicans in the locality are not quite converted to the idea, but it is hoped that their cooperation will be gained in the future. Big Horn—This stake has cooperated with the Wyoming health nurse and has held a number of three-day clinics. Two wards of the stake are 150 miles away but clinics were held there RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 293 also. The physicians in these distant wards were not converted to the necessity for the work, and so a physican went with the stake people to these wards to do the work. Follow-up work is dcne and reports made to the state nurse. The larger wards have maternity chests. The smaller wards have a few articles on hand. Many health lectures and nutrition classes have been held. Bingham.—The Relief Society of this stake cooperates with the Red Cross health center. All organizations in the town participate in the work of the health center, which has been conducted during the past year under the direction of the state child welfare department. The state health nurses make surveys of the work done and they find that health conditions have greatly improved. Two stake board members are sent with the nurse who makes the survey, so that word may be brought back to the Relief Society stake board of the results of the clinic. The wheat interest has been pooled. It amounts to $360, which is in the bank under the direction of the stake board. A plan is being worked out whereby the money may be used. This plan has been approved by the stake presidency and the cooperatiun of the county commissioners and local physicians and hospital board has been secured. The plan worked out makes provision whereby the hospital will give rates to women recommended by the Relief Society. Women may enter the hospital for ten days at a rate of $30 (2-bed room.) The regular rate is $43, so this is a reduction of $13. The doctors charge regularly $35 for maternity cases in the city, and beyond the city limits, a mileage charge is made in addition, which in some cases would make the total cost about $50. They have given a reduced rate as low as $25 for the cases that are brought into the hospital. The stake, however, must assure the doctors their $25 and also assure the hospital tne $30. This makes a saving of $24 for all cases which are put in the hospital. Cases are very carefully inspected and doctors join with the Relief Society officers in deciding who should have reduced rates. When it is found that a patient cannot afford the $55 reduced rate, the Relief Society assists. For example the Relief Society may contribute $30, providing the husband pays the $25 for the doctor. Women who do not care to go to the hospital are helped where necessary in their home confinements, sometimes to the amount of sheets, pillow cases, towels, diapers, etc. If any articles are needed $15. Need has not been found for maternity bundles, but for in a ward, the stake is called upon to supply the needs from the central chest, as these articles are provided by the wheat interest fund which the wards have pooled. Blackfoot—This stake gave an entertainment and secured funds, which were used to supply each ward with a maternity 294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bundle and emergency supplies. The layettes made are sold. There was no health nurse in this county, so a Relief Society committee interviewed the county commissioners, the Red Cross authorities, and the school officers, and succeeded in raising enough money to finance a county nurse. Shelley stake is also located in the same county, and gave money for this purpose, and shares _in the nursing service. The board in charge of the community health work consists of one member of each organization which assists in financing the proposition. The doctors give their services wherever necessary. Two children with spinal curvatures have been sent to Shriners' hospitals for treatment. Blaine.—The stake has been cooperating with the state health department. Each ward in the stake has held a health conference where mothers and infants were examined. Follow-up work has been done, and operations performed where necessary. The physicians feel that through this health work the lives of many mothers and children have been saved. There is a nurse, supported by the Delano fund (which is a memorial established in honor of her parents by Miss Delano, a nurse who died during the war) in the northern part of the state. The Delano fund fund provides for five field nurses, and the Red Cross determines where these nurses shall work. The Blaine stake has been fortunate in securing one of these five nurses to work in that section of the state. Under the auspices of the Red Cross, a course of twelve lessons has been given in each ward of the stake, in nursing. Over three hundred school children have been examined and much follow-up work has been done. There is a splendid spirit of cooperation between the stake Relief Society and the local physicians and hospital authorities. In one ward where goitre symptoms were found to be very prevalent among school children the Relief Society financed the treatment of these cases. There is one maternity hospital in the northern part of the state. Boise—There is a Salvation Army Rescue Home, in Boise, for unfortunate girls. The stake Relief Society has been able to help unfortunate girls in getting into this home. Any girl who belongs to the Church is taken care of there and the stake helps to pay the expenses if necessary. Dr. Almond, the state physician feels that the Relief Society women are among the most capable and most efficient women he has met throughout the state in taking care of unfortunate people in their communities. Most of the wards have maternity chests started. The stake board provided some articles for each ward to encourage them to begin their maternity chests. Some of them have very beautiful chests built especially for the purpose. So far, the bundles have not been used very extensively. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 295 Box Elder.—Relief Society officers cooperate with the state health officers. Every ward in the stake has maternity bundles on hand. Brigham City wards have the benefit of a competent nurse who takes charge of the bundles. The local doctors think the establishment of the maternity bundles is one of the best things ever done in the community. The bundles are in use all the time. There is a permanent health center at Brigham City. There have been many operations as a result of the clinics held. The local doctors and dentists are in full sympathy with the clinic work and give their hearty support. The graduate nurse gives nutrition talks. The health work is not only greatly appreciated by the doctors and nurses, but by; the people as well, and it has been a great saving for those of modest means. The stake is planning to establish a loan fund for mothers who need a little help for hospital care. Burley—The wards have been instructed to get maternity chests established. One health clinic has been held. Cottonwood.—In Cottonwood stake a clinic has been in operation for three and a-half years. The doctors work on the rotary plan. The clinic is held every Thursday. Infants and children of pre-school age are examined. The stake board feels very fortunate in having a splendid graduate nurse as one of its members. At present, an average of over thirty children are examined every week. The maternity hospital established by this stake accommodates ten people, and at present there are seven new babies there. So many applications are being received for reservations in the maternity hospital, that it is feared the hospital will be unable to accommodate them all. Dr. Beatty. State health commissioner, recently visited the hospital and said it was one of the best of its kind he had ever seen. He said he hoped to see such homes as this established all over the state. He feels that the Cottonwood stake maternity hospital is a model. The stake officers have the full cooperation of the county doctors. There is a staff of twelve doctors, and they also work on the rotary system at the hospital. There are two house ductors subject to call in case of emergency. A charge of $40 is made for two weeks (foucteen days), and everything necessary is furnished by the hospital except the mother's underwear. The laundry for the baby is done, and the layette is furnished and all medicine necessary, except special perscriptions by the doctors. The doctors in the hospital charge $30 per case; outside of the hospital, they vharge $35. The women who come to the hospital may have any doctor they wish who is a member of the hospital staff. The doctors are doing all they can to encourage women to go to the hospital for confinement. Cache.—Two clinics have been held in connection with Logan 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stake. At the second one, a great deal of follow-up work was reported. In Cache stake the wards have begun to establish maternity chests, but are planning to keep on hand only the articles which they think will be used frequently. Jayettes are made and furnished to needy mothers at the time of confinement. The Relief Society women feel that about the only articles which can be kept on hand, without deteriorating from age, are bed pans and douch cans. Rubber gloves are also held for use. Carbon.—The wards in the coal camps are well looked after by the doctors and nurses employed by the coal companies. Health clinics are held in the other wards. All the wards are working to get the maternity chests, bundles and layettes. It is felt that a great deal of good has resulted from the health centers. Officers' Meeting—Afternoon Session DISASTER RELIEF Mrs. Annie D, Palmer When I was first asked to talk on the subject of disaster relief, I wondered whether we might feel that there was sufficient need to devote our time for a few minutes to the subject, and then when I thought of the disasters that have already come in the past to our state and our people by the way of flood and of mine explosions. Then, when I thought, too, of the program that has been given by both ancient and modern prophecy, I could see that indeed there is much for us to think about as Latter-day Saint women on the subject of disaster relief and how it should be treated. A little incident that happened only a short while ago in the way of a family disaster will help to point out how we have thought, and how we have acted, in the past in the matter of disaster relief. In one of our stakes a home was burned and with the burning ef that home the mother of the family lost her life in her attempt to save a child. The story, as it was told and as it came to the newspapers, was most pathethic, nothing could be much sadder. Within a very short time two men had made the rounds of about five communities asking for relief for the family. The men also went to an organization for public welfare and asked that the organization give some relief to the stricken family. When they were asked about the condition of the family there was very little information to be had. Was the house incumbered with a mortgage? They were not sure. Was it covered by insurance, so that the loss would be repaid to the man and his family? They did not know. Were there relatives who could help RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297 in the rebuilding of the home, or had the man other resources such as money in the banks with which he might rebuild, or did he even have another home? The men did not know. When asked what the family needed they simply threw up their hands and said, "Everything; they need everything. Those motherless children are huddled together in a corner crying and there is nothing for their comfort." That was the situation as it appealed to them. The organization to which they had made the appeal made an investigation of the conditions. They found indeed that the little children were huddled together in a corner. That was but natural. That was something that could not be helped, perhaps, not because of need but because the mother was gone—nobody could restore the mother, nobody could take ner place. Of course, the children huddled together in a corner and cried. The investigation was made a few days after the disaster had occurred. It was found that used clothing had been contributed in large quantities, which had been gathered in several wards and kad been sent to'the scene of the disaster in carloads. There was so much used clothing that it had been piled into the corners of the house to which they had been temporarily moved, it had been piled out in the coal shed, and up against the wall on the outside— so much of it that no one family could use it in years. In the same wards from which this clothing had come there were dozens of families who might have been made comfortable with what had been hastily gathered together and sent to the scene where the stricken family was huddled together. It was found that none of the girls of the family knew how to make over the used clothing, and they were not at all inclined to put it on and wear it as it was. So there was the used clothing thrown out in the weather— a useless heap. One of the girls said that in their cellar there was fruit which their mother had put un for the winter, and the cellar, which had not been burned, was full of fruit. In the meantime, loads of fruit had been gathered and hurried off to this family whose home was burned. It was found also that the man carried insurance on his home, and all together the relief was greatly out of proportion to the need. Now, what is true of a family disaster is sometimes true also where there is a community disaster, but there has been considerable progress made in the last few years in the way community disasters are handled. Since the time of the Johnstown flood, in 1889, there has been considerable improvement in taking care of disaster relief. At this time a large fund was raised and it was distributed as soon after the disaster as possible, on a per capita basis, each family receiving its share according to the number of people in the family, and it was immediately disbursed in that way. About twenty years later the Cherry Coal Mine disaster happened 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and there was a very great difference in the way the fund was handled at that time. In the Cherry Coal Mine explosion 256 men were killed. A relief fund was collected and the committee was urged to disburse these funds immediately. The committee made an attempt, however, to educate the people away from this narrow way of per capita distribution and to educate them into the broader and better way of looking after the families according to their need, and so there were three social workers employed on a part-time basis to take care of the disaster relief at Cherry. There was a period of seven months of temporary relief, the period in which they were simply supplying food and clothing without even trying to rehabilitate the families. After that, they looked farther into the matter of permanent relief. No money was allowed to pay off debts after the terrible disaster, and no money was given as benefits to those who had suffered financial loss, but were able to go on and care for themselves. There was no attempt to indemnify anybody for any loss. It was not apportioned off to anybody according to the degree of family relationship. In the final distribution they divided the survivors into two classes, seme of whom received grants for the rebuilding of their business, and others who received allowances to be continued over a period of years. A few days later the Dayton flood occurred. It is said that at the Dayton flood trained social workers were the backbone of the relief work. This disaster involved a large amount of property loss, but there was no attempt made to repair these losses. Relief workers at that time considered that the family was the unit, that need was the basis, and that cooperation was the principle of relief. The fund was used, after the first period of reconstruction, in the community itself, looking to the sanitation, the health conditions, and things that had need of immediate attention and repair. After that the fund was used to repair houses and to help to build new homes. In San Francisco, in 1906, which is going back some, they seemed to have had a fairly good and constructive plan, even at that early date. Following the terrible disaster with its destruction of property in San Francisco, no attempt was made to reimburse prosperous businesses or moderate proprietors. Small business concerns were helped to reestablish themselves by grants ranging from $50 to $500. Cottages were built for five thousand families at a low price and were sold to these stricken people, each family being required to pay from $4 to $6 per month on the buildings. When they could produce a lot and were able to move the buildings away from the public ground on which it stood, the money they had paid in was refunded to them, so there was an incentive right from the start for these people to rebuild their homes. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 299 I know that you are all somewhat interested in the disaster which occurred at Castle Gate, a year ago (March 8, 1924). By the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law, enacted before this date, there was no family left without any means whatever of support. This Workmen's Compensation Law gives to each family of the miners who were killed $16 per week regardless of the size of the family. This is paid by the Utah Fuel Company, who are the insurers in this case. Immediately following the disaster, the Utah Fuel Company announced its intention to take care of the burial of all of the men who were buried on the grounds. Relatives who wished the bodies shipped to other places had to pay the additional expense. The Fuel Company also offered to every family a commuted sum; that is, the family could draw from compensation whatever was necessary for immediate need even to the extent of several hundred dollars. They also extended credit to every family whose breadwinner had been killed in the mine, so no one suffered for the necessities of life. The Carbon County Red Cross chapter was also on the ground and assisted in supplying food and clothing. Relatives of the people from all over the state and the adjoining states came and I am sure a great deal of help was given by them, so the immediate need was taken care of at Castle Gate. I am sure you can see how these people might have huddled together in their helplessnes, just as did the little children of the family of whom I spoke in the beginning. There was nothing that could have been done for that feeling of helplessness, other than to stretch forth the hand of sympathy. An appeal was made in the state and a large relief fund was accumulated. This relief fund has not yet been entirely distributed. But is being used constantly. A relief committee was organized, appointed by the governor of the state and the comnuittee procured the services of a relief worker to go into the homes cf these families and to do social work according to the best methods and best plans that have been devised so far as the committee knew, and in that way this work has been and is being carried on even at the present time. No family was given a large amount of money but they have been given allowances from the fund from month to month according to the best judgment and skill that we have. It is the hope of this committee that the means will last over a period of quite a number of years while the children are going to school, and that it will take care of their health and educational problems. It is true that at the time when a disaster occurs it is not a difficult matter to raise money, because instinctively men and women are touched by a great sorrow or a great disaster. But just as impulsively they demand that it be handed out immediately, 300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and I believe that the experiences of the past have shown that the immediate disbursing of relief funds, at so much per capita, is not the best way to handle relief funds. 'At the time of the flood disaster there were men who lost equal amounts, but some did not receive a share of the relief fund. This was because these men had enough means left so that they could continue with their business. Others who had not lost any more had lost everything they had. But this is a just way to administer a relief fund. The one who was able of himself to pick up the threads of life and go on with his own affairs does not need to be the recipient of a relief fund. A relief fund is not for indemnity, it is not for loss. Each family of a stricken community has its own problems just the same as exist in any community. There are families everywhere who are worse off financially than the women of the Castle Gate disaster. I am sure that you will agree with that. There are many of those women who realize it, too, and who realize that they are wonderfully blessed in having a compensation due them and in having relief funds to help them out. The reason we get a relief fund together is because the stricken community has nobody in that community to help the others. Otherwise, the family problems are very similar to those we meet in any community. As to the general principles of procedure in disaster relief, I should say that the first thing is to look after emergency relief, to supply food, clothing and shelter, and to treat problems of health. The next thing is to get the cooperation of every agency that is interested. There should be an estimate of the need, and this should be based on a fairly good investigation. Then, if necessary, an appeal must be made for help and it should be a sane appeal. It should not be made farther away than is necessary. If it is a family, help from one community is enough. If it is a big community disaster, then the appeal should go only as far as is necessary for the need of that community. Then each family should be studied and dealt with by a social worker. Permanent relief should be given, as it is found to be necessary by the social workers. If there is a larger fund than is needed, it should be held as a state fund where it can be used on a similar occasion if needed again. We need something in the management of our state whereby a fund which is not all really needed fur the welfare of the people for whom it is raised, could be kept in the state and used for another disaster. The essential lesson we have learned from a study of disasters is that the needs of a community which has met disaster are the same as the needs of a family; health, income, recreation, education, and spiritual development, and when these are broken into RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 301 there must be some way of reestablishing them and restoring people to a basis where they can develop a normal family. SUPERVISION IN EMPLOYMENT Miss Lydia Alder, Relief Society Welfare Department. The prevention of unemployment is such a big problem that we could not hope to solve it here—but as social workers, we are in a position to do a great deal to alleviate the sufferings of those who are thrown out of employment: (1) by administering to the wants of those who are unemployed and (2) by using our influence to see that proper legislation is enacted in their behalf. We are just emerging from a severe industrial depression, perhaps one of the worst known in our history. During this time, we all, as social workers, have been taxed to our utmost in meeting the varied problems which such a period naturally inflicts upon the communities. According to Bernard Shaw, the trouble with the poor is their poverty. Think then how much would be removed from their sufferings if they had adequate incomes. We will all agree that insufficient wages, insufficient leisure, insufficient employment, and unwholesome and improper working conditions give rise to a great part of our social troubles. It is much more important to eliminate the causes than it is to attempt to alleviate the results. Professor Warner in his book American Charities says that in an effort to tabulate the causes of poverty, he found that in 50% of the cases studied, the sole and predominant cause of distress was insufficient income. Facts such as these led to the organization of committees to study industrial conditions, with the result that we are gradually obtaining laws for the protection of the laboring class. A direct result of this study is that practically every state in the Union and the Federal Government have some sort of legislation limiting the hours of labor, also establishing a minimum wage. Prior to 1907, there had been no legislation regarding industrial insurance but today practically every state has this insurance to protect its laboring class. Of course, the thing we are looking forward to is when we will have social insurance against unemployment which means that when a man is torced into idleness, he will receive insurance during; the time he is idle. This plan is being received with favor, but as far as I know, it has not been enacted anywhere in this country. In our own community, the employment situation is still very bad. An employment bureau has been opened by the city, and the superintendent of this bureau reports that there are 3,500 men RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out of work in Salt Lake City. They are trying to give men temporary work in lieu of permanent positions of which there is a dearth. All winter long, we have tried to deal with the stupendous problem. We have had numerous families come to Salt Lake from the rural communities, who have thought conditions would be better here, but after months of disheartening experiences, they are glad to return to their farms where they are at' least sure of a roof over their heads. Our monthly reports from the Relief Society Employment Bureau for Women shows that during this depression work has mot been so scarce for women as it has for men. Every day women come to us with the story that the man of the house is out of employment and has been for months and they are forced to seek employment. In instances of this kind, the man becomes the housewife and cares for the children during the mother's absence. I don't think they particularly care for this role—but the women are glad to seek employment if there is a chance for them to obtain even a remnant of an income. In conclusion, I would like to say a little more about our Employment Bureau for Women. We are serving hundreds of girls and women each month, trying to give them proper vocational guidance in addition to proper employinent. We have a great many girls coming in from out of town and we are especially interested in them and endeavor to place them in suitable places. I should like to relate two instances to you of thé service rendered two girls who applied to our bureau. Not long ago, a young girl came into our office asking for employment. The experienced eyes of our bureau detected immediately that the girl had a goitre and that. She needed medical attention rather than employment. Another girl was sent to our office by the Y. W. C. A. Employment Bureau where she had applied for work. It was learned that the girl already had a position in a home as a domestic, but she was restiess and wanted a change. In fact, she intimated that she was having some mental difficulty and she thought that ultimately she might develop some mental disorder. A mental expert was consulted who said the girl was suffering from a slight melancholia which might result in a permanent mental condition, if she was not given the proper environment. In going into the situation more thoroughly it was found that the girl had been working in wealthy families, and at the time she came to the office she was employed as a nurse maid in a home where she was considered as a servant and was not allowed to associate with the family at alt. She had no friends, and she did not seem to have the ability to make any. An effort was made to find out if the girl was interested in any one thing, and one day she confided to the visitor that since she RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 303 was a small child she had wanted to be a nurse. This confession gave us something to work to. A position was secured for the girl as clerk which enabled her to earn enough money to buy her uniforms and she is now in training in one or our own local hospitals. Her close association with the other nurses has solved her mental difficulty and her ambition has been attained. THE TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM Miss Cora Kasius, Relief Society Welfare Department When I consider the transportation problem, I am often reminded of the story of two little children who were playing in the green field near their home. They saw a beautiful light far away and one said, "Look yonder at the golden windows." The two children scampered off in search of the two golden windows which they saw ahead in the east. As they went farther and farther they found the field was not so green and the path became rougher. When they reached the place where they had seen the bright golden rays, they found nothing but an old shack on a rocky, rugged hill. Then they saw that the beautiful golden light was off in the opposite direction—that the golden light was really over their own home. There was nothing for them to do but wander back. We often find people who become discouraged, whose home conditions are not pleasant, who are overburdened and distressed, and they think that if they could only get away off in some other part of the world, that conditions would be better, that life would be sweeter. They, too, see these fickle golden windows and go in search of them. It is not uncommon for us, who are working with families, to meet with requests for transportation. A woman perhaps wants to leave her husband and go back to her mother, or a man thinks he can find employment in another state, or perhaps in his old home town. In making decisions when persons apply for transportation, there are two definite things to remember: first, the person's residence, and second, the transportation agreement. By residence we mean, where does a person belong? Where does he live? Ordinarily it is the place where he was born. If he moves from county to county, it takes four months to establish his residence in the new county. If he moves from state to state, it takes one year. So, if a person appeals for money to go to a different place, one of the first things to consider is, where is his residence? If he belongs here, the probability is that it is better to work out his problems at home than to go where he has no claim on the taxes, public funds or institutions. By the transportation agreement we mean that there exists an understanding between the 304. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE counties and states that dependent persons are not to be moved from one place to another. If a person is dependent in one town and is sent to another place, the agency or individual who arranged for his transportation, is liable to prosecution by law. The only method which is proper to use to assist a person in moving to another place is by arranging for an efficieut investigation by, and securing an approval from, an agency at the applicant's destination. You perhaps frequently have requests in your own communities, from people who wish to move to Salt Lake or to some other center. If the family presents many difficult problems, it may appear to be an easy solution to assist the members to move. But the officials at the destination are perfectly justified in having a person or a family returned to his legal residence. The reasons and justice for this procedure are obvious. Public money and taxes raised are designed to be used for the good of residents. Each city and county should assume the responsibility for its own sick, aged, and other people in need of assistance. I know of a man who appealed for assistance to go to California. His appeal was not made to an agency, but to a private individual. He told a plausible story that his mother was sick in California and that he was worried about her. The man to whom he appealed was touched by his story (he was a stranger to him), and secured some money for his transportation. Two days later his wife was asking for help; her husband had deserted her. The man who assisted the stranger meant well, but his good impulses were misdirected. If the man had applied at an agency, an inquiry would have been made about his friends, his home address. It would have been determined if it was all right for him to leave here; a letter would have been written to an agency in California and a visit made to his mother to determine if the mother was able to care for him. Without such an investigation he should not have been assisted. Another time a woman applied for transportation to her home in the Middle West. She had three children, and she explained that she did not get along very well with her husband. She was not feeling well and thought she would be better if she went home, leaving her husband to face his financial worries alone. Immediately we learned what the situation was in her mother's home and found that there was no one there to care for her. Her mother had no resources, and could not provide for four new members in her household. Besides, there was no particular reason for the woman to move. It was just the lure of the golden windows. Things a long way off looked brighter. She really would not have been as well off there, but yet she was restless and unhappy here. But that is comprehensible; her home was not attractive. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 305 her income was not regular, and her children were not very well. What she needed was not money to start her on a purposeless journey, but she needed help in meeting her problems here. Her husband needed a steady position, she needed to be taught to keep house, she and her children needed medical care. It would not solve her problem to assist her in trying to escape from it, but the solution lies in assisting her to steady and rebuild her shaking and unstable family structure. A striking example of the need of investigation is the story of two sisters who were here, but whose homes really were in Idaho. They had been here just a short time, looking for work. They became discouraged, were without funds and wanted to go home. It perhaps would appear reasonable to send them at once, as it would not cost very much and they had a letter from their mother, telling them to return.. But after an investigation it was found that there were circumstances at home which made it inadvisable for the girls to return. It was not the kind of home suitable for two young girls to be reared in. But just because they were not residents here, we did not insist on sending them back. The human element involved the welfare of two girls, and outweighed the importance of legal residence in this instance. Arrangements were made for them to go to work here, to enter parttime school, under the supervision of relatives. A situation which we meet more and more frequently is a family touring in an automobile and stopping at each town asking for funds and gasoline. We offer no solution to this growing problem, but it is deserving of our study and attention. If these people were offered no other help except return to their Jegal residence, a number of wanderers might not undertake to make such journeys. We should do all we can to discourage people from moving about aimlessly. There is one other suggestion I wish to make in this brief statement of some of the transportation problems. The desire of people to. Move has beneath it more serious problems, than the mere decision of whether to furnish transportation. This restlessness is often only an expression of other deep rooted maladjustments. We must look carefully into the causes of the restlessness, if we wish to administer effective treatment. Each community is permitting certain undesirable social conditions to exist, and individuals in their discouragement will say, "There's nothing for us to build on 'here, let us try our luck somewhere else." They are trying to escape from something unpleasant, from irritants, from poverty, from failure. To desire an escape from unpleasant realities is natural. We perhaps escape for a time by reading, or by visiting friends or going to theatres. But for people who have few resources, the far off golden windows have a strong lure: We should, of course, help them to gain some security and 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stability at home. If they have a feeling of security, if they succeed at some work, belonging to a church or a club, if they have friends, if there are a number of these ties that give a family a solid basis, it is not going to desire to move. There will not be the need for escape that there is in so many homes now. The transportation problem then, fundamentally, is giving a better foundation and more solidarity. FAMILY TIES Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary I had decided to discuss this subject, "Family Ties" under three headings: family solidarity, parental responsibility, and mutual responsibility. "A house divided against itself cannot stand." A family divided against itself cannot stand. In order to be efficient and effective and helpful in family work, social workers should do everything possible to build up families, to make them solid and united, and develop strong family ties. A family divided against itself sooner or later goes to pieces. There are a great many factors that cause family disasters and cause families to be broken up. A few of the danger signals are selfishness, quarreling, nagging, carping criticism, and failure to adjust. A great many people never learn to adjust, to subject their wishes and to modify their habits in order to make family life harmonious, When people work or live together they must learn to adjust. When a man marries, he must make adjustments; when one child comes, he must adjust to this change in his life and habits, and when more children come, he must again make modifications and changes in his plans and conduct. A great deal of family trouble is due to the fact that people do not learn to adjust. Another cause of family instability is lack of loyalty, and lack of family standards. It is very demoralizing to families to have no regularity and no standards of conduct. There are families who do not care when the children get up, when they go to bed, when they eat, and they have no rules nor regulations nor mutual respect in their homes. Families should have health standards. Religious standards, moral standards, that are honored by all the members. Blessed is the family which sets high family standards and succeeds in having these standards respected by the entire group. Let us look into our own homes and see what our standards are, see if we have wholesome habits of regularity. Neglect of the home by either the father or the mother is disastrous to family development and growth. Another cause of family disintegration may be a display of favoritism. Parents sometimes have one child whom they consider brighter than the rest, and the other children are sacrificed for the benefit of this child RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 307 to the extent that the others become discouraged and bitter towards one another. Many families are broken up, although they still live under the same roof, because of partiality on the part of the parents to some of the children. We should not ignore personalities in families. Sometimes a woman thinks the man she has married is a plodder, but he is the kind of man one would like to have around if shipwrecked, because he is capable and can build anything with his hands, but his wife wants him to be an after-dinner speaker. She nags at him and tries to make him something that he is not, instead of appreciating him for what he is. Personality should be respected in families. Of course, divorce, desertion and 'neglect break up homes. Disagreements over money is sometimes an element that breaks up families. I know a woman who died and left more to one daughter than to the other children, and the others have not spoken to the girl since, although the mother has been dead twelve years. The family does not have any reunions or any more pleasure together, because of so much quarreling over the money. Sickness and accident and death also cause trouble. A great deal of melancholy and depression in homes is due to ill health. People must learn to adjust to sickness and to deaths, and it is always a difficult thing to do. When a disaster comes into a family, such as death or financial reverses, the family should be united and share one another's burdens. This help should be extended not only while the family lives under the same roof, but after the members are separated. If brothers and sisters, after they are married, stand together and assist the one in difficulty, it denotes that the family ties are strong and unbroken. There are some factors that are conducive to successful family life; and, of course, the first one is suitable mating. It is wise for people to marry some one of their own type, some one who has had about the same kind of background. People get along better under these circumstances. It is also very important for people to marry in their own religion; particularly is this true of people who are highly socialized, like the Jews, the "Mormons," and the Catholics. All of us when we are young and little are dependent upon others for actual physical care. Most of us must again become somewhat dependent in old age. Very few people can care for themselves through their entire lives. People feel more responsible toward helpless children than towards the infirm, aged members of society. We all realize that the children are more importand in a way, economically, and so, much attention is paid to children and their welfare. Children are interesting, are attractive to take care of, and we see the possibilities of child development. Older people are less attractive, are less docile, and are more  308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE difficult to care for than children. We therefore neglect old people a great deal more than we neglect children. A mother can take care of five, six or even eight children, but sometimes it is hard for five children to take care of mother when she gets old. As Latter-day Saint people, I believe we are a little bit negligent in this respect. We think somebody else ought to do it, and that the Church and the county ought to help, instead of taking care of our own old people. Old people want their own way; they have been the center of attraction in their own homes, and it is hard for them to depend on their children for advice and care. They have all spent many years struggling and sacrificing themselves for the good of their children, and now, in their old. Age, they do not wish to trouble or burden their children. It is time, however, for the grown children to repay the debt of love and care and attention, and they should willingly undertake the responsibility for the care of their parents. Elderly people dislike giving up their homes, leaving the familiar rooms and surroundings in which they reared their family. It perhaps is best for their happiness to permit them to continue to live in their home, or have their own homes as long as they are able to care for themselves. If, however, elderly people are not comfortable or properly cared for alone, they should be persuaded to make their homes with their children. Institutions and homes for the aged should be used only when other cares cannot be provided. If family work is properly organized, it is astonishing what co-operation can be secured in caring for the aged. We had an elderly couple brought to our attention, the man was 88 and the woman 71. The ward in which they lived had been caring for them. A few years ago, the bishop felt that the ward was perhaps not giving these people sufficient care and relief, and as he had a great deal of work to do, he asked our office to help. We talked to these old people and found that they had five children but they all were married and moved around and they had lost connection with them. We located the children and learned that the oldest child, a daughter, had seven children of her own and could do nothing for her parents. The second and third daughters were willing to help. A son, who was very shiftless, was unwilling to do anything, but his wife was a very responsible woman and was willing to help. The old couple had a grandson, whom they had reared from infancy, and when these people were all talked to and written to, it was astonishing what a good plan we could make. It was decided that it would be best to — the money all come to our office, as the mother was old and when she was given money she often spent it for things which she did not need, and even gave it away, and so the children felt it was better to RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309 have the money handled by an agency. We planned a budget for these old people, which was as follows: rent, $5; food, $20; light, $1; coal. $9; clothes, $5; making a budget of $40. This is what the family did to take care of their old father and mother: the first daughter was not able to give anything; the second daughter was able to give $7; the third daughter, $3; the daughterin-law, $5; another daughter, $5; the grandson was pleased to give $5, which made $25 a month which the family itself was willing to give. The county gave $5, the bishop, $5, and the Relief Society helped with the clothing, and with the cleaning-up of the house for the old people. PLAY "OUT OF WORK" PRESENTED A special number of the afternoon session was a two-act play entitled "Out of Work." The play is a very touching story of a young man who is out of work and who finally reaches the end of his resources and the end of his courage. His wife, too, loses hope when her little girl becomes ill, when the grocer refuses further credit, and when the landlord asks them to move. In desperation the wife calls the Relief Society for help, and through the help and service rendered by the Relief Society the family secures an opportunity to make a new start. The role of the discouraged man and his wife were most effectively presented by R. Kendall Thomas and Mrs. Vida Fox Clawson. There was scarcely a dry eye in the audience during the scene which portrayed the series of misfortunes that overtakes the family. The part of the Relief Society visitor was most skilfully handled by LaRue Peterson Romney. Little JRuth Halliday played the part of the child in a very pleasing manner. The arrangements for the presentation of the play were made by Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine of the Relief Society General Board. SUMMER VACATIONS FOR CHILDREN President. Williams announced that a plan to arrange for summer vacations for children has received the approval of the General Board. President Williams asked for the support of the various ward presidents and stake officers in this new movement. Miss Lydia Alder, of the Relief Society welfare department, was asked by President Williams to give an explanation of the plan. Miss Alder stated: "I think we are all interested in children, especially those who do not have many opportunities. The summer months are very trying for children in the city, especially the ones who are malnourished. When we think of these children and-the great open spaces out in the country, we wonder if there is not some way of getting the friendless city child into a friendly country 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE home for a visit. Last year we sent quite a number of children on vacations, and the experiment was so successful that we would like to send more this year. I have in mind two children we sent who were malnourished. They went to a home in the country where they had plenty of milk and vegetables. They returned | looking very much improved and they had both gained in weight. We feel sure there are many people who would be delighted to take some boy or girl for a vacation for a week or two. We would like to have you take this word home with you and if you know of families who would be interested in making some child happy this summer, have them communicate with Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah." General Meeting—Morning Session President Clarissa S. Williams I am very happy to have the opportunity of greeting you again after an interval of six months. Sometimes I wish minutes were hours and hours were days, in order to be able to do some of the things I want to do, but our heavenly Father has ordered things as he thought best, and I believe he has given us the wisdom to temper our lives so that we might be able, with proper activity to do a few of the many things which we find about us to be done. I want to say to you how happy the General Board and officers are that there is so much activity among the organizations in the Church. We are delighted with the progress which has been made in the stakes and missions. It is almost unbelievable the work which is being done—the interest which is being taken. The young-women are becoming interested in the Relief Society, and are assisting us, who are older, to carry on the work satisfactorily. During the year there have been a number of changes. We wish to report that we have added to the General Board two new members, Mrs. Nettie Davis Bradford and Mrs. Elise Benson Alder. These women have been presidents of stakes and have been active and forward-looking in their work, and we feel that their help and counsel in the General Board will be of very great benefit and assistance to us, and we bespeak for them your love and your sympathy and your faith and prayers, that you may uplift and sustain them in their work as you have helped us. Throughout the Church there have been many reorganizations of stakes, and new stakes have been organized. There have been many wards reorganized and organized, and the work is progressing very rapidly. Following is a list of the stake changes: Nebo stake, divided November 23, 1924, into Nebo and Palmyra stakes, Mrs. Hepsy Sperry Lewis retained as president of Nebo stake, Mrs. Delila Hughes appointed president of Palmyra stake; RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 311 Utah stake, divided November 23, 1924, into Utah and Kolob stakes, Mrs. Electa S. Dixon retained as president of Utah stake, Mrs. Hannah A. Mendenhall appointed president of Kolob stake; North Weber stake, reorganized November 9, 1924, Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott released, Mrs. Julia E. Parry appointed president; Eastern states mission, Miss Marie Danielsen released August, 1924, Miss Pearl Snow appointed president November 28, 1924; Salt Lake stake, reorganized March 15, 1925, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford released, Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion appointed president; European mission, reorganized December, 1924, Mrs. Emma Ray McKay released, Mrs. May Booth Talmage appointed president; Malad stake, reorganized March 28, 1925, Mrs. Eliza A. Hall released, Mrs. Ella Jeremy Richards appointed president; Yellowstone stake, reorganized January 13, 1925, Mrs. Julia E. Miller released, Mrs. Annie S. Kerr appointed president. We feel that great honor is due to the women who have given up active service, many of whom have worked long and faithfully in the upbuilding of the stakes in which they reside. We bespeak for the new presidents of these stakes the faith and prayers and support of the communities. We are very much pleased with the work which is being done in the Relief Sosiety organizations throughout the Church in the interest of maternity and child welfare. Since the passage of the Sheppard-Towner act and the action of the state legislatures in meeting the funds of that act, great forward strides have been made in all communities where the women: of the community have co-operated with the state health departments in the interest of maternity welfare work. In our officers' meeting we heard reports from nearly twenty stakes relative to the work which is being done in the interest of maternity and child welfare. It warmed our hearts to learn of the work that is being done throughout the Church in this movement. Clinics are being held and hospital beds are being provided. We were particularly pleased with the report from the Cottonwood stake of a ten-bed hospital which, through the assistance of the authorities of the Church, they have been able to establish, where they receive only maternity cases. Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, president of Cottonwood stake, reported that there had been as many as seven cases there at one time and they were very much encouraged. They have the co-operation of the physicians of the county and feel that they are going to make a success of the work. In some of the stakes there are two and three bed hospitals or cottages where women may be taken for their confinement under the direction of the Relief Society. In some of the Idaho stakes wonderful progress has been made. The co-operation with the hospital at Idaho Falls and the co-operation with the physicians of the county in which this stake is located is very pleasing. In some stakes the Relief Society workers have one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE visited the physicians and have come to an agreement with them that cases that are recommended by the Relief Society shall be treated at a reduced price by the regular physicians. We feel that in every stake of the Church there is a wide field for the opening up of just such work as this, if our stake and ward presidents have their eyes open and are alert to the needs of the community. We ask you women who are not officers to lend your help and assistance to the officers who are working over you to establish the things which shall be of benefit to the women of the Church. The death rate among infants under one year has decreased very materially. Some statistics from the Presiding Bishop's Office show that during the year 1920 thee were 776 deaths among children under one year, or 49 per 1000, based on the birth rate; in 1921, there were 902 deaths, or 53 per 1000; in 1923 the death rate decreased to 619, or 39 per 1000. We feel that some of the credit for the decrease in infant mortality is due to the efforts of the Relief Society women. We want to say to you, go on assisting in work which will further decrease the death rate of children. Let us work for the mothers in order that the mothers may be healthy, in order that they may bear healthy offspring. A general survey was made recently by the General Board with a view of ascertaining what the Relief Society has been doing in the interest of maternity welfare work, both in connection with state boards of health and independently. Some general headings were arranged and the stakes were asked to report their work as best they could under these headings. In addition to this general report, many very interesting things were recorded in connection with the maternity and child welfare work. The compiled report is as follows: Number of health centers established...................005 13 Number of maternity hospitals established.................Number of districts or stakes in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as stake unit) has co-operated.. 40 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having maternity chests. 13 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having maternity bundles........ 20 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having layettes... 24 Number of local branches or wards in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as ward units) has cooperated.210 Number of wards which have maternity chests.............132 Number of wards which have maternity bundles............306 Number of wards which have layettes..................4.236 Number of wards which have some provisions for health and maternity welfare work, either in the way of clinics, chests, bundles, or layettes.......599 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 313 Number of stakes which assisted in paying county or school  In addition to the above report, stakes and wards have assisted in arranging for operations and paying for hospital care, have provided household and nursing care during sickness, have conducted weekly classes in health lessons, and arranged for health lectures, and have assisted in providing clothing and equipment for children's hospitals, etc., etc. In addition to the special work done by Relief Society women in the interest of personal health, we would like to recommend that all Relief Society women interest themselves in public health generally, and in sanitation. We recommend that they band themselves together in the interest of clean-up campaigns, that the communities in which they live may be made more beautiful and more healthful, generally. Not only should the community and the streets be given attention, but all private yards and homes should be cleaned and beautified. Relief Society women should insist also on the cleaning up of corrals and other breeding places for flies. Flies could be absolutely eliminated if all members of every community would unite in their destruction. I think a future development of a community health program is to provide visiting nurses. I suggest that you encourage some one in your communities to study for this profession. Some of the stakes are co-operating with their schools in assisting in paying for a public health nurse. We hope in the future to have the community health actively advance. [Note: The addresses of other speakers at the morning session will appear in the July issue of The Magazinc.] General Meeting—Afternoon Session The General Authorities of the Church as sustained at the last conference, and the officers and the General Board of the Relief Society were presented by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and were sustained, unanimously, by the large assembly.: Items from the annual report of the Relief Society, which is a report of the finances and activities in the wards and brafiches where the funds are held and administered, were read by the General Secretary. The report indicated growth and development in every phase of the work. Among the interesting items mentioned were the following: nearly one and one-half million dollars was handled during the year by the women of the organization; the amount paid for charitable purposes during the year was $100,453.51, which is an increase of $43,486 over the amount paid in 1915 for the same purpose. The net assets of the Society were given as $897,575.56, an increase of $363,534 in ten years, or since 314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 1915. The present membership of the Relief Society was given as 59,272, which shows an increase of 17,989 members in ten years, or since 1915. (The complete report appears in this issue of the Magazine.) COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON It is a very great pleasure to meet you at this conference and to renew acquaintance with you. I am sure we have all been greatly interested in the report read by Sister Lyman of the splendid work and activities of the Relief Society. I have been thinking of the family budget that we heard about this morning, the system of budgeting our incomes. We have learned during this conference that it is imperative that we set aside certain proportions or percentages of our income for definite purposes, for food and clothing and shelter and education and pleasure, amd that if we spend too much money on food or on clothes, that we will deprive ourselves possibly of education, and that if we go to the extreme in education, that we deprive ourselves of some of the other necessities, so it is important that we seriously consider what to do with our incomes. However, if we do not take care of our lives there is no agency which can extend us a loan of life. I read an article recently by Bruce Barton entitled "Budgeting Your Life," with this sub-heading: "You can have almost anything you want, money, position, fame, but there is a price tag attached to each one. Look at the price tag—the price may be too high." I wonder if we are budgeting our lives with as much concern and as carefully as we do our income, or if we are living each day the best we can without any plan for reaching our ideals. Is our barque of life evenly balanced so that when we reach the storm and troubled waters of life that our craft may sail with safety? We have in our Church a beautiful motto: "The glory of God is intelligence." This applies to us as parents as well as to our children, and if we neglect ourselves in order that our children may have every opportunity we have acquired the gift of self-sacrifice, but what of our intelligence? If we are such excellent housekeepers that we cannot spend one moment in_ spiritual development, and what is the price we are paying? Isn't it too high a price for excellent housekeeping? There are a few of us who may neglect our homes and children for public work. This is too high a price. We should look facts in the face and determine what we are getting out of life. What is there that would be worthwhile that I would be willing to trade my years to gain? Consider the life of Benjamin Franklin and what he accomplished by systematic endeavor at improvement. Other men had wealth and position. Franklin had neither, but we all know RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 315 what he accomplished. His idea was that he should aim systematically to develop morally as well as mentally. He knew what was right and what was wrong, and he did not see why he could not always do one and avoid the other, and so with systematic work he prepared a little book, ruling the spaces down for the days of the week, and the spaces across for the virtues he wished to acquire. Franklin said, "I was astonished to see that I was so much fuller of faults than I had imagined, but I had the satisfaction of seeing them diminish." Each night Franklin would go over the book and in the spaces opposite the virtue in which he wished to improve he would check himself up by making dots for mistakes and leaving clear spaces when he felt he had not made mistakes. In budgeting life we must remember that there are three big fundamentals, the physical, the mental and the spiritual. I am sure that all of the sisters who heard the wonderful talks this morning on the development along physical lines will know that that is the big important thing, because without health we cannot accomplish either of the others. But it is necessary for us to take inventory and see if we are paying too much for any of these fundamentals, to check up and see how much time we give to the development of each of these three fundamentals. In budgeting incomes we find there is quite a variation in amounts, because some of us have an income of $50 a month while others may have $500, but in budgeting our lives we each have twenty-four hours. If we take the eight hours out for sleep, we still have sixteen hours to budget, or 112 hours a week. The physical, of course, comes first, and should receive serious attention. Authorities tell us that if we would spend one hour a day upon the study of any given subject that at the end of one year, we would be an authority on that subject. If an hour a day is too much to spend on mental development, we might divide that and spend a half hour a day or 3½ hours per week. This amount of time spent would not be very much compared with the 112 hours a week which we have at our disposal. So many of us say we have too many meetings. Let us write down honestly and faithfully the time we spend in meetings where we go for spiritual improvement, where we partake of the Spirit of the Lord. Let us write down also the hours spent in spiritual study or study for spiritual development, and the time we spent in prayer. I think we would all be surprised. The aim of spiritual development is life eternal; we as Latter-day Saints believe in life eternal, and that "this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." If this is the aim, what can we afford to pay for it? This does not mean that we merely have to believe that there is a God, but we must know. We all feel that we have the stars and the planets above us, but until we make a real study of
316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
them we do not know them nor their functions, nor do we do anything in life without effort. If we will have this for our motto and we believe that we are here on this earth to prepare ourselves for a future life, then if we can give part of our years, part of our hours each week to the development of the spiritual part, that we will know at the end of time that we have given our hours or traded our time for that priceless knowledge, "that we may know thee, the true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." I pray that we will have vision to see, that we will realize that this time that our Father in heaven gives us is the most precious income that we can have, and that we will live so that at the end of the time spent we will not look back with regrets, and think we have paid too high a price for the things we have done with our time.
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT
Having prayed to my heavenly Father for his inspiration to help me this afternoon, I now turn to you for your sympathy and faith that I may remember only that which would be profitable to express. I appreciate the privilege of working with you in the Relief Society. I congratulate you on your successes and desire that my remarks may encourage all to press on in our work and admonish all to grasp every opportunity that will give us a more intelligent understanding of how to uphold the ideals and standards of our Church. There is a proverb which says: "As a man thinketh in his heart so is he." If we reflect upon the deepest meaning of this proverb, I believe we will recognize that we are moulders of our own characters, the makers of our destiny. It will enable us to appreciate more fully the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ as a potent factor in our lives. Our hearts will swell with gratitude to our parents for teaching us the gospel and directing our minds in channels that lead to happiness, pointing out for us a purpose in life toward which all our thoughts and energies should be directed. We will gratefully acknowledge the wisdom and vision of our leaders in establishing the auxiliary organizations through which many of our best thoughts have borne fruits in deeds of loving kindness. The women assembled here today represent a group who do more than their share of the world's work and do it faithfully and silently. They have that rare accomplishment, acquired only by great minds, of being able to see
something divine and wonderful in things which to many minds seem only commonplace. Through our training we have come to recognize the value of the statement accredited Carlyle when he said: "It is not what I
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 317
have but what I do that is my kingdom;" and as what we do is a product of what we think, how necessary it is for us to entertain only those thoughts which will result in noble deeds. The mind is so organized that it will bring forth either good or evil. Life is so short and there is so much to do, that we cannot permit thoughts of pride and prejudice, envy, jealousy, falsehood, dishonesty, disloyalty, intolerance, or selfishness, to find lodgment in our minds, for they will bring forth the briers and thorns to vex us. They will rob us of success and happiness, and thwart us in our purposes. They will wound those we love and for whom we labor. If we harbor these, our lives will end in disappointment. If, however, in our minds, there is a hunger and thirst after righteousness, they shall be filled with thoughts of humility, generosity, forgiveness, tolerance, patience, sympathy, love, and charity. If, as we face the problems of each new day, our minds are fertile with such thoughts as these, they will bring forth good fruits and when the book of life is closed, upon its pages will be recorded only deeds of righteousness. This great victory can be gained only by self-mastery which means constant labor. Many thoughts will creep in unbidden as did the serpents on the shield where Hercules was put to play. You know the story; he was placed on his father's shield to play. Two serpents crept into it, and it is said that the child grasped them by the neck and choked them to death. These serpents, according to one writer, typify doubt and fear. Have they ever crept stealthily into our minds when we have been struggling to fulfil some duty? Such thoughts must be crushed; they are the enemies of education and progress. We must put in their place, thoughts of faith and courage and we can do if we follow the admonition of our prophet which says, "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning by study and also by faith." This year, as in the past, we have in our course of study many splendid outlines. Should some of the problems called to our attention require a little extra mind energy, are we going to cast them aside and say they are too hard? It is so easy to cog Let us resolve to be rowers, not drifters. The Psalmist also points a way to fruitful thoughts, saying, "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his law doth he meditate day and night." If, in the hours of time allotted to us, we will cause our minds to dwell upon that which is pure and unselfish, as surely as the sunbeam is reflected from the pinnacle of yonder temple, just so sure will good thoughts be reflected in our countenances and we will become women of influence and blessedness, in our homes,
318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
as wives and mothers; in our Church, as members; and in our nation, as citizens. May the Lord help us to realize the full significance of the proverb, "As he thinketh in his heart so is he," and order our lives in keeping with his will.
MRS. EMMA RAY McKAY Former President European Mission Relief Societies
To say that I enjoyed my missionary work in Europe is expressing it mildly. I love the British country, even with all of its rain, and I love the British people, their genuineness, their honesty, and their quiet refinement. I was surprised at the richness of Germany and at the quality of her people. To see young girls there two hundred fifty of them in a Bible class with their Bibles all marked with red and blue ink, as the missionaries' Bibles are, and to hear them answer every question, was a delight. The scenery of Switzerland and Norway was a delight, even as our own mountain scenery is, and every country was so full of interest that my sojourn was a continuous joy. Nearly all the time we were associated with Latter-day Saints, so we felt right at home in whatever country we were visiting. We arrived in Europe at an opportune time when the conferences were on, and by the reports of the presidents I was able to learn early of the excellent work being done, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to face continually. One of these difficulties is the time of meeting. Since the war the women have really had better opportunity to get work than the men, and so women are working in mills, factories and shops, and do not have time to go to meeting except at night when the meetings are held. We were told this morning that when we rest, we should do nothing, but when those women rest, they are doing Relief Society work. Another difficulty is the place of meeting. Where we have our own meetinghouses there is no difficulty about a room for meeting, but in cities where we rent halls, sometimes they can be obtained for only one day, and all meetings must be held on that day. Where the Relief Society women meet with the Mutuals, the plan is not satisfactory to either organization. Sometimes the Relief Society women meet in the homes of the people, but the homes are often small and women must stand for the evening after working all day long. The item of car fare must also be considered where people go to four or five meetings a week. It has been reported that the families spent from three to ten shillings every week for car fare, and many women have told me that they could not possibly afford to go to a picture show or other form of entertainment because they must use the money for car fare. Another difficulty is the small amount of funds in the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 319
Societies. At one of our meetings one of the presidents said, "We have a small society, but we have many old people around us to whom we should like to give milk and eggs, but we have only three shillings in our treasury; but if there are any presidents here who need some of that more than we do, we should be glad to divide it with them." This shows the spirit of these women. Relief Society women in Europe cannot go around from block to block collecting money for Relief Society funds. Their money must be raised by making clothing and selling it, and in other such ways. It was the desire of the president of the mission that the auxiliary organizations be up to the standard of the auxiliaries here, so we went into the details of Relief Society work. We instructed the officers regarding their duties and the division of responsibility of their work. We advised regular audits of Relief Society books, and Relief Society reports at quarterly conferences. Prayer meetings before regular Relief Society meetings were established and this brought the officers to the meetings in better time and brought also a better spirit in the meetings. The main thing established was the study of the regular lessons in the Magazine. Before taking up the work, good features of the lessons and the development to be gained from them were pointed out. For the English speaking Saints, the lessons as printed in the Magazine were available, but for the other countries, translation was necessary. I feared the social service lessons were too difficult as given for some to handle, but I learned afterwards that the women were enjoying the lessons and that they could apply them as we are applying them here in the stakes of Zion. Some of the English women preferred to study the English rather than American poets and this is being done wherever desired. The lessons were received with great delight in Germany. Sister Tadje reported that the Relief Society in Basel grew in a very short time from 12 to 40 members, and the societies in Berlin grew from 20 or 30 to 60 and 80. The Relief Societies in Norway have enjoyed the lessons just as much. In Sweden they were just beginning to use them. In Denmark, when I visited the Relief Society, the room was full of men. They enjoyed the lessons so much that they asked if they might go and partake of them. In Holland they were just getting started, and also in Belgium. So the Relief Society Magazine and the lesson work have done much to improve conditions in the societies in Europe. Another factor for development was the desire of the president of the mission that every Church member should be a missionary, and also that every auxiliary organization should be a missionary factor. In trying to work out that idea we saw great improvements in all our organizations.
320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The poet says so long as we love we serve, and so long as we serve others, we are indispensable. Relief Society women in Europe love to serve, and are indispensable in the highest sense of the word. Heaven blesses them for working as they do, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to put up with. May we emulate their example.
MRS. JEANNETTE A. HYDE Member of General Board
(President Williams explained that Mrs. Hyde, who has been business manager of the Relief Society Magazine from the beginning of its publication, has been appointed by President Coolidge as collector of customs for the Port of Hawaii, and that she would soon leave for the Hawaiian Islands. Mrs. Hyde will be given a leave of absence from the General Board during her term of office there, but has resigned her position as business manager of the Magazine.)
The choicest blessings of our heavenly Father have been with us during this conference and if we will retain the things which we have learned we shall be better presidents, better board members, and better officers in the Relief Society. I am glad that I have the opportunity of speaking immediately following Sister McKay, because I have long wanted to tell her of the splendid work which she has done in Europe for the Magazine. Naturally the thing that we think the most about, the thing that we work most earnestly for, is the thing in which we are most vitally interested. Therefore, with all the work of the Relief Society, I believe that the Magazine has stood out to me the most vividly, and I have loved it the most of all, because I have given the great portion of my time to it. When Sister McKay went to England, I think we had some 25 or 30 subscribers to the Magazine from that mission. I think when she left we had 125. Every mail from there seemed to bring orders and letters of congratulations from happy subscribers, telling what the Magazine has done for them. Surely Sister McKay has done a splendid work in putting before the people of the European mission the benefits to be derived from the reading of the Magazine. I am glad also of the opportunity to tell you what you have done for the Magazine. When we started it we had no funds; we had to borrow. It may be quite a surprise to some of you to know that the Relief Society was ever so poor. We started just at the time when the war commenced and before we were well established the United States entered the conflict. Naturally, prices soared. The material that entered into the making of the Magazine went up in some instances 150%. We still kept the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 321
price at $1 a year. We had you in mind, and your exertion in the interest of the Magazine showed us that you had us in mind. It was a hard thing to launch our periodical. It started in 1914, and came to you as a bulletin the first year, free. But we had back of us that stalwart and beloved man, President Joseph F. Smith. He commissioned us to publish the Magazine, and thus to put a medium of exchange between the General Board and the Relief Society women of the Church that you might know of the things that we desire to have you take up in the local organizations, and that we might all work in greater unison and harmony. You have helped us to establish the Magazine, which is now eleven years old and has a circulation of 25,000. All during the years of its existence you have been true and faithful and loyal. I am both pleased and proud to tell you today that we appreciate more than you can know what you have done. When I think of the Magazine, I think of the names that have come in regularly as subscribers and of the faithful agents who have helped us out year in and year out. The Magazine radiates the spirit of Relief Society work; it radiates the spirit of the gospel, and through the Magazine, Relief Society workers everywhere will be able to get a detailed report of this conference, which is next to attending the conference itself. I rejoice to be with you today. I am happy that I have had the opportunity to work in the Relief Society. Whatever I have done, whatever I am, I owe to this great organization, for it has given me opportunity for development. I hope and pray that I shall always have your love and confidence.
(President Williams asked the audience to rise and give a standing vote of thanks to Mrs. Hyde for the excellent work she has done in behalf of the Relief Society Magazine.)
MRS. NETTIE D. BRADFORD Member of General Board
I cannot tell you how I feel on this occasion. I could not express my feelings even though I tried, but I do feel to thank my heavenly Father for the privilege of working in the Relief Society. I, like Sister Hyde, feel that if I have amounted to anything, if I have done some little good in the world, that I owe it to the training I have received in the Relief Society. When I was just a young married woman, our president, Sister Williams, was president in the stake in which I resided, and she suggested that I be called into the Relief Society to do a special piece of work. I responded and thus began my service in this cause. Now that President Williams has called me to the General Board, I again feel very weak and humble. I think I have never felt so weak as at
322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the present time, and yet at the same time I feel that the Lord will be with me if I will put my trust in him. I know through past experience that no matter what we are called upon to do by those in authority over us, if we will put forth every effort, if we will bow ourselves before our heavenly Father in humility and prayer, that he will come to our assistance, that he will make us equal to our tasks. Just before being released from being president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, I asked my father, who is a patriarch, if he would give me a blessing. I wanted a blessing from him, although I had had two patriarchal blessings when I was young. And he blessed me and told me that the Lord was pleased with the work I had done but that he still had a great work for me yet to do. Just at that time I was called to this position. I pray that the Lord will help me to do the work which will be required of me and that I may have your love and your confidence and your faith and prayer to help me.
MRS. ELISE B. ALDER Member of General Board
ABOU BEN ADHEM
Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase), Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace; And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom, An angel writing in a book of gold: Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold; And to the presence in the room he said, "What writest thou?" The vision raised its head, And, with a look made all of sweet accord, Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord," "And is mine one?" said Abou. "Nay, not so," Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low, But cheerily still, and said, "I pray thee, then, Write me as one that loves his fellowmen." The angel vanished. The next night He came again, with a great awakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blest, And, lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. —Leigh Hunt.
It was not the intention of the author, my dear sisters, to infer that it is better to love our fellowmen than our God, but that if we love our fellowmen we show that we do love our God. This legacy of loving my fellowmen was left to me by my father and mother, and I can say to you now that this must be the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 323
reason I was chosen to this position. No one can tell you how I have suffered since last Wednesday, the 24th of March, when Sister Williams called me to the General Board. I could not see what I could do. The evil one seemed to say things to me that were not what they should be. I thought, "Why are they choosing me, perhaps because they feel sorry for me." I thought again the General Board is no dumping ground, why would they want me, if I could not do anything; I thought a good many things, my sisters, and I felt how small I was. I shall never forget the reception by President Williams which I received in her beautiful home when she called me there to inform me of her desire that I serve on the General Board. My mother's spirit seemed to be there, and I felt that it was a call. When President Williams put her arm around me and kissed me goodbye, I knew the Lord would bless me and I would be able to do some little good if the Relief Society women would support me with their faith and prayers. I am willing to do all I can but I must have your faith and prayers, because I am not just as strong as I look, and I am the baby on the General Board; but if the Lord will bless me, I feel that I may accomplish some of the things which will be expected of me.
PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS
I feel that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us, not only in this meeting this afternoon and in the meeting this morning, but in our officers' meetings yesterday, and that a great amount of work has been accomplished. I believe that much good will be derived by the people in the stakes and missions through your attendance at this conference. I believe that every stake except four, and five of the missions, have been represented at this, the official conference of the Relief Society. We consider that a very splendid showing. When we take into consideration the number of stakes (ninety-four), we feel that it is indeed a very splendid showing to have representatives here from ninety of them. We are always delighted to welcome the mission presidents. Their problems are a little different from ours. We feel that our contact with them is not only beneficial to them but helps us also. My mind has dwelt upon one or two special subjects that I feel would benefit you if they were mentioned. As I went out of the grounds today I walked behind a group of young women and they were talking of the morning meeting. They had been there and had been much interested, or so I judged from what they were saying. One girl whom I supposed was a Sunday School teacher delivered this criticism of us, the mothers: "The audience this morning should go to Sunday School and see the order that is maintained there by the children. No child is al-
324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
lowed to get up and go out of Sunday School until it is dismissed, until the prayer and the singing are finished. I was jostled and shoved and I could scarcely hear the remarks of the last speaker, because there were women near me who were making such an effort to get out of the building." Sisters, I blushed at that criticism. I thought, Why is it that we, the mothers of Israel, do not set the example in every respect for our children? Isn't it possible for us to make arrangements to come to our meetings and remain until the meetings are closed? I wish you would regard this seriously. You may think it is a little thing, but I think it is very important. I want to say to you that I believe that we get as much inspiration from the singing and the prayer as we do from the remarks. Now, carry this little instruction into your homes, you stake presidents, you ward presidents, you members, and be determined that no young woman shall offer this criticism again. Let us set the example for our children. Let our children proudly say, "Father and mother do this. Father and mother know what is right. We will follow their example." There is no other teaching, no matter how great, that will equal the teaching by example. If you cannot stay until the meetings are finished, I would suggest that you do not attend. We must learn a little self-control. We must learn to respect the house in which we meet. We must learn to respect that spirit which our heavenly Father gives us in his house when we ask for his blessing. I want to ask you as mothers of boys and girls to give them in your homes the teachings that will make of them the men and women who will be able to carry on this great work of the latterdays. I wonder if you are as horrified as I am at the statistics which appear occasionally in the newspapers in regard to the divorce problem. These statistics show that divorce is on the increase in the United States. Even among people over sixty years of age divorce is not uncommon, although it diminishes as the age increases. Aren't you horrified when you read of a man and a woman being separated who have reared a large family? Some of the noted jurists of the day say that the fault lies frequently in the home, that we as fathers and mothers do not teach our sons and daughters the responsibilities which come with marriage, that we do not teach them that when two separate individuals, with different ideals, different training, different thoughts, are brought together, it takes a great deal of self-sacrifice in order for them to adjust themselves to each other. I beseech you as mothers to think of this subject. Endeavor in your teachings in your home, with your children, and in your home life, to demonstrate that there is no holier union than that of marriage, and that it takes the Spirit of the Lord and the spirit of self-sacrifice in
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elsie B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XII JUNE, 1925 No. 6
A Fitting Tribute
The twenty-first of April was the anniversary of the birth of President Clarissa S. Williams. In behalf of the entire organization of the Relief Society, The Magazine extends congratulations to her. In order to express in a tangible way their felicitations to President Williams on this event, Relief Society members assembled at the Salt Lake and Logan temples and performed ordinances for her ancestors. The invitation was extended by the Salt Lake City stakes to all members of the organization. The following stakes were represented at the Salt Lake temple at the five o'clock session on that day: Ogden, Mount Ogden, Weber, North Weber, North Davis, South Davis, Salt Lake, Ensign, Liberty, Pioneer, Cottonwood, Jordan, Oquirrh, Grant, Alpine, Utah, Wasatch, Nebo, and Taylor of Canada. Ordinances were performed for 210 women and 80 men. At the same time Relief Society members of the Cache valley stakes assembled at the Logan temple and performed ordinances for 320 persons. Thus a total of 610 of the ancestors of President Williams received their temple endowments on the anniversary of her natal day.
The Contribution of the Emigrant
Recently the story of the triumph of Dusolina Giannini reached us from across the sea. It has been said of Caruso that his first great triumph was in London, and now an American girl of Italian birth sings in Queen's Hall. And, to quote the news-
EDITORIAL 327
papers, "took musical London by storm." At the close of her program she was forced to sing no less than seven extras before the enthusiastic audience would allow the lights to be extinguished. Mrs. Asquith said she had heard no voice like Giannini's since Patti's in her heyday. The London Times music critic says of Giannini, "Her appeal is instant and it grows as the evening goes on. It is a voice of two octaves, levelly shaded, with the quality of a clarinet and the penetration and carrying power of the horn, and the human blend of these is irresistible. But besides this, she sings with her whole heart and with every part of her." Some day, no doubt, America will be appreciated for her native art and for the artistic triumph of those who have been Americans for several generations. To-day she shines through borrowed light. Those of us who thrilled at the beauty of the architecture and the decorations seen at the San Francisco Exposition are aware of the fact that a good deal of it was produced by Americans who either came themselves from southern Europe or who are the descendants of those who were born in lands beyond the sea. Whatever discouragement the immigrant problem may present, we must not forget that much of the art that we enjoy in this country is ours because we have taken into our national life many people from other lands gifted in art lines. Let those of us acquainted with art development here in Utah, Idaho, and Arizona think of the leaders in various lines; let the names of the musicians run through our minds, and Then determine how many of them were either born abroad or are the children of parents born abroad. Think of people in other lines of art and see how valuable has been the contribution from the people across the sea. The Metropolitan Opera Company of New York has maintained its prestige because it could obtain the great opera stars of Europe. Within the hour in which we are writing this editorial, we have had a chat with two of our local musicians who agree that the Chicago Musical College has on its faculty men almost entirely of foreign birth, who speak naturally a foreign tongue. When we think of the Tabernacle Choir, of which we have all been justly proud of these many years, we realize that its conductors have been men of English birth, of Welsh extraction, and that its present leader is of Scandinavian parentage; that its two most prominent organists, Joseph J. Daynes and John J. McClellan are children of parents born abroad, while many of our leading soloists are of European extraction. There are two sides to this tale of American immigration, and if one picture is a picture of unusual gloom, the other is transcendent in its brightness and should encourage us in the midst of any discouragement.
Resting Time for Mother PART TWO Mary H. Woolsey
"You poor little kids," she said half aloud. "Poor little kids! Hasn't anyone been kind to you before?" The ride ended, they came directly to her. "How did you know my name, Lady?" "I heard Mrs. Wayne call you Billy." "Oh—do you know Mrs. Wayne?" "No. I—heard you call her Mrs. Wayne." They both smiled, as if they shared a pleasant secret. "Tell me, Billy-boy—would Mrs. Wayne mind if you talk to me for awhile?" "No, ma'am; she doesn't care what I do, so long's I get back home pretty soon." "I won't keep you long. Would you and Margery like some ice cream?" Their expressions were eloquent answers. Presently, across a cozy table, they were chatting busily. "Who is Mrs. Wayne, Billy—a friend?" "No'm; not—not 'zactly. She—she keeps us." "Where's your mother?" "She—she died; three years ago." "And your father?" "He died, long 'fore Mother did." "How did you happen to stay with Mrs. Wayne?" "Well, you see—we'd just come here when Mother took sick, and she didn't know anyone else. So she asked Mrs. Wayne to keep us, so's we could stay together. On her dying bed, she begged her to, and Mrs. Wayne promised. And she keeps her promises; she's a woman of her word." Strange words from a boy of Billy's size, thought Mother; then she divined the reason for them: he was simply quoting Mrs Wayne herself. Curiously she fancied even now that she could hear the words spoken in that lady's harshly aggressive voice, and the tears come again to her eyes. "How old are you, Billy?" "Going on 'leven. I—I'm small for my age," he added. "Margery's seven." "She's small, too." "Yes'm." Somewhere near them there was the sound of chimes, and
RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 329
when they had ceased, five sonorous notes telling the hour. Billy sprang up. "Oh, gee, ma'am! I've got to hustle. I have to help Mrs. Wayne pretty quick. Can you hurry, Margy?" Margery swallowed her last spoonful of ice cream, drew a long breath, and nodded. "I'll carry her," and with a hug Mother lifted the child in her arms. "Why, you're like a feather, Margery." Soon Billy and Margery were being borne back to Mrs. Wayne's place, and Mother, on another car, speeding in the opposite direction. The lonely feeling returned. "Billy-boy, Billy-boy! I wish I could have you always!" And suddenly Martha Knox sat upright. For in that moment was born her great idea. An idea which she hardly dared put into words, but which thrilled her, dazed her, set her brain racing. She breathed an eager little prayer: "Oh, thank you, God—thank you! And help me to make it come true!" Then, since she was not one who having expressed a desire, sits down with folded hands to wait for its fulfilment, she began at once to devise ways and means to speed the day when her wish might be granted. There was a soft flush of excitement on her cheeks, an unwonted brightness in her eyes, when she reached home; under her breath she hummed a little tune. Noticing which, Rilla remarked to Pauline,—"Mother seems so much happier tonight—more contented. I was sure she'd like the city when she'd grown used to it." Later, over the phone, she repeated the good news to her brothers; they expressed their pleasure at the information. But Mother! Every day she was going out, eagerly, or coming in, a little subdued but still smiling and confident, saying to herself, "Maybe tomorrow." Every day, at the Park, on the streets, she was on the lookout for a thin, oldish boy face, a pair of luminous brown eyes; in other words, she was looking for Billy, whose last name she did not know. The city directory revealed an appalling long list of Mrs. Wayne—and none of them whom Mother had so far located, proved to be the right one. Then one morning, early, she found him. On a busy downtown corner, under one arm a huge bundle of newspapers, lustily calling his wares. "Billy!" called Mother. Glad recognition leaped from his eyes. "Why, it's the ice cream lady. Gee, but I'm—I'm glad to see you!" "And I—I've been looking for you at the Park, every day, Billy." "Haven't been there—even once—since that other time." The boy's face clouded. "You see, Margery—" all at once his worn
330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
little features seemed older than ever. "What about Margery?" prompted Mother quickly. "She's sick—awful sick, ma'am. I mean, she's been awful sick. She's better now." "Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, Billy. Where do you live? I'm going to go and see her—right now." "Mrs. Wayne's place is in Cloud Place, off Boyd Street," said Billy, "but Margery's at Brent's Children's Hospital." "Brent's?" echoed Mother. "How on earth—" she stopped abruptly. "Well, I'm going there right now. And Billy—what is your other name?" "Ward, ma'am; but Mrs. Wayne says I should say Billy Ward Wayne." "I understand—See you again soon, Billy-boy. Goodbye. How on earth," she was thinking, "did Margery get into Brent's Hospital?" Soon she found out—from none other than the great Doctor Brent himself, who came up to the narrow, white bed where Margery lay, while Mother sat by clasping the thin little hand in her own. "Are you—er—a relative?" Doctor Brent asked her. "No—just a—a friend. I-I sort of picked up an acquaintance with her and her brother, one afternoon." "That Billy!—Say, there's a lad for you!" exclaimed the Doctor. "I never saw another like him. Why, he came up to my house—past midnight—and said to me, 'Doctor, my little sister's awfully sick. I want you to come and see her.' And before I could say a word, 'I'll pay you, Doctor—I'll run errands for you, I'll do anything—but you—you've got to come and tend Margery.' And then he slipped right down and all but fainted away, saying, 'Don't bother about me—I'll be all right, but Margy needs you in a hurry!' and then he began to cry. I found later that he hadn't dared ask that Wayne woman for car fare, or even permission to come after me, and he'd run three miles through the city to bring me. Well, I just took him in my machine with me and hurried down to see the little girl—and none too soon, either. —But she's getting along finely now,—aren't you, Miss Margery?" Margery smiled wanly, and nodded. "What is the trouble, Doctor?" "Food poisoning," he answered. "Some tainted meat that woman gave them; the whole family were affected by it, but this one—poor mite, she's been half-starved anyway—was weakest of all of them and it went pretty bad with her. I brought her up here, because she'd not have had the ghost of a chance, with the care Mrs. Wayne would give her." "Mrs. Wayne—has children of her own?"
RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 331
"Yes. Five of them." "Are they like Billy and Margery?—Halfstarved, I mean." "Not a bit of it." Indignation marked every word. "They're regular savages—or animals, all of them. I could just picture them at their meals, like a litter of young hogs at a trough, pushing, grabbing, quarreling, forcing away the weakest ones—who later would get what ever is left—if anything. It's a shame; I can't think of sending this child back there * * * I took such a fancy to Billy; kind of wanted to take them both into my home. But—in a lower tone—"well, the wife isn't exactly in sympathy." Glancing down, Mother saw that Margery had fallen asleep; gently she disengaged the tiny hand, and rose. "Tell her," she said to a nurse who stood near, "tell her, when she wakens, that I'm coming again tomorrow." And to the Doctor, as they walked towards the door, "I—I've taken a strong fancy to those two, myself, I saw Mrs. Wayne once; I hadn't a very good impression of her." "She's worse than that," almost savagely. "Words fail me!— I would like to see Billy and his sister in a good home. You live in Weston, Mrs.—" "Knox—Martha Knox.—No, my home is in Greenfields. I'm visiting my sons and daughters here; James, Alvin—" "Alvin? You're Alvin Knox's mother?—Yes, I know him; studying medicine, isn't he?—You're going to be proud of him some day. Well, well. I'm glad to have met you, Mrs. Knox— very glad. And I hope—that you get Billy." Cloud Place, off Boyd Street, was as cheerless a place as could be imagined; hot, dirty, foul-smelling, swarming with flies and other pests and with unkempt, ragged, rude children. It was hard to believe that Billy could ever have lived among them. "His own parents—must have come from very good stock," thought Mother, as she walked towards the doorway pointed out to her as Mrs. Wayne's * * * Mrs. Wayne was within. Undeniably, she justified Doctor Brent's opinion of her; she was even more harsh, more coarse, more everything unlovely, than Mother had thought possible. She listened frigidly while Mother explained her errand.. "A'm * * * Can't see whatcha wanta do with 'em; but if yuh' wanta take 'em off my hands, it's yore funeral. Got all I oughtta have, myself. I only kep 'em cuz ther ma ast me—lyin' on her dyin' bed she wuz; plum skairt they'd git put in th' Home, an' maybe separated. What cu'd a body do? I promised; an' I keep my promises.—I'm a woman of my word, I am." She glared at Mother as if her integrity had been unjustly questioned. "I'm sure of that—very sure of it," Mother hastened to say. 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But you see, if you let me take them, I can give them care that you couldn't—without robbing your own—_" "Robbin' m'own—that's what I been doin', all 'long. Tain't right—tain't, But what cu'd I do?_J promised that Pore soul, on her dyin' beqd—" "Yes, yes," soothingly, "I understand that. And you see, if I take them both, you'd 'still be keeping that promise," "Tha’ so, Yu kin have 'em, Of course—" a belated attempt to prove her concern for their welfare—"yu'd hafta perduce references," "I’'ll do that, Mrs. Wayne. You may be sure of that. I’ll Set a lawyer to fix it all up right." "A lawyer—wha' for?" Mrs. Wayne showed alarm, "To fix the Papers; to show I'm adopting Billy and Margery." "D' I hafta pay?" "Oh, no. I pay him." "'Sall tight, then * *” When'! Yuh take 'em?" "Just as soon as I can artange things; a day or two." H'm * * Yes. Well, didn't I say you c'd take 'em— I'm a woman of my word; I don't go back on nobody." Mrs. Knox escaped at last. She could not "get things fixed up" too soon, she decided. Mixed with her joy at the Prospect of adopting Billy, was the fear that Mrs, Wayne might yet refuse My dear Children: Forgive me—oh, please forgive me for running away! I had to do it; there was no other way. For what I am doing, you'd think very unreasonable—foolish, Perhaps—because you could not understand; and you RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 333 could. I can't be satisfied with the life that gives me all play and no work; it's quite as bad as all work and no play. Or worse. No, while I have health and strength, and the will to be doing for someone—and while there are children like Billy and Margery in the world—just so long I'll be happiest in little old Greenfields town, running my own household just the way I've always done. It's the one thing I love to do.. Now, Rilla, James, Pauline, Alvin—be good sports, all of you; and please see that Mother is trying to do what is best, as it is given her to see the best. Lovingly, Mother. P. S. I shall be looking for a visit from you soon. In great agitation, Rilla hurried to the telephone and summoned her sister and brothers for a discussion of this new turn in Mother's affairs. "The council meeting" was brief, and not at all stormy. "There is simply nothing to be done, as I see it," said James decidedly. "Her life is hers, to do with as she pleases; unless we considered her incapable, which we certainly don't." Rilla was almost tearful. "Why, we were trying so hard te make things pleasant for her. And she let me think she was growing to like it so well here!" "Cheer up, sis,' murmured Pauline. "She didn't leave because things weren't pleasant. I've an idea maybe they were too pleasant." "That's it, too pleasant," grinned Alvin. "No kick left in living; all obstacles removed, like a race-track: mighty smooth going, but lacking in scenery of interest. Take it from me, Mother's all right. You can give me the post-scrip, if none of the rest of you want it." "Think it's a ticket of admittance, do you?" bantered Pauline. "Well, at least it isn't marked, 'Admit One!'—When do we go?" Rilla alone refused to be drawn into a lighter mood. "Let's go as soon as ever we can. I can't help worrying about poor Mother, working her knuckles off over a pair of ungrateful little hoodlums who'll soon grow up and leave her and forget all she's done for them." "Oh, cut it out, Rilla!"' drawled Pauline. "Al, for pity's sake, get me away from here, before I start wearing out my tear-glands! Take me to a movie—a hokum, slap-stick comedy—quick!"  They did not announce their arrival by any blare of trumpets —-or, to be more exact, honking of horn—when they drove up to the Knox gate one morning in September. Perhaps they felt a little ashamed, or maybe just uncertain of the attitdue she should assume. At any rate, it had been a quiet ride for the three of them 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE —James, at the last moment, had been unable to make the trip— and quietly now they went up the walk to the front porch. There seemed an air of real contentedness about the place. A hammock was swung across the end of the porch; in it and about it were tumbled bright-colored cushions; one knew at once that it had very recently boasted a lively occupant, though now it supported only two flaxen-haired dolls and a big lazy tomcat who raised his head as the visitors approached, lazily opened one eye, yawned, and resumed his nap. Several story-books lay on a stand; and old but still servicable bicycle leaned against a porch pillar— Alvin grinned delightedly as he recognized in it his own most precious possession of a few years before. Significant glances passed among them as they opened the screen door and walked into the hall. Then sniff, sniff—a most delightful odor hinted of "sugar and spice and everything nice," led them straight to the kitchen. And there, enveloped in a gorgeous pink apron, stood Mother at her white-topped work table, deftly cutting rounds of yellow cooky-dough. Her eyes were like stars, her cheeks like June roses, her lips curled merrily as she sang the old rhyme about the inert of Hearts and the tarts he stole away. Opposite her, on high stools, elbows on table, supported two faces shining with utter ecstasy were— why, to be sure, Mother's new family. One would hardly recognize, in those two faces, the Billy and Margery of a few wecks ago; already country air, proper food, and cleanliness, and affection, had worked wonders. But certainly they were no other than Billy and Margery, for those luminous brown eyes, those wonderingly joyous expressions, could belong to no one else! "Hello, aunts and uncle!" Mother threw a kiss, from floury finger-tips, to the trio who stood in the doorway. "Come and meet your new niece and nephew; Billy, Margery, here's Aunt Rilla, Aunt Pauline, and Uncle Alvin come to see you. I just knew I was making these cookies for a get-acquainted party." Everybody began to talk at once, and consequently no one could understand anyone else. But gradually the confusion subsided and dissolved itself into intelligible words and phrases: Rilla: "Mother, are you quite sure you're not going to regret this, this—hasty procedure?" Mother: "Quite sure. 'Tisn't so hasty, you see; I didn't do it ira minute, nor ina day. I had plenty of time to think it over.' Pauline: “We're sorry, Mother, that we tried to fit you, square peg that you are, into a round hole we'd selected for you. We were really trying to be good to you, an didn't know how." Mother: "I know that, dear. You didn't quite understand me; that's all." Alvin: "Well, we're back of you now, Mummy you can bank on that." RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER Over a batch of golden-brown cookies fresh from the oven, Mother smiled at him fondly. "Can you—meet all the expense, Mother?" questioned Rilla. "I've the same income I've always had," returned Mother with spirit. "With that and a garden, and a cow, and pigs and chickens, and our little field of hay and grain, and our new meadow—we'll get along splendidly, won't we, Billy-boy?" "You bet! You bet we will!" warmly. "But, Mother—the work! You, wearing your life away, slaving for someone who will only forget you after awhile— Billy was on his feet, on top of the stool, an indignant little figure; brown eyes flashing, face white, hands clenched. They watched him, fascinated. "If you mean me, ma'am—I mean, Aunt Rilla—Why, you just forget all that. 'Cause I can work and I'm going to help Grandma all I can—" he turned to her a look of vee adoration — "every bit I can! Tend chickens 'n' pigs, 'n' milk a cow, I can, an' hoe garden 'n' help wash clothes and wo *n' dust, too. Think I'll forget her, when she's brought us to this nice home, and making Margery get all well and strong—and she lets us call her Grandma, 'n'—'n' everything. Betcha I won't forget her— ever!" There was a moment of amazed silence. Then, "You see!" beamed Mother. But Rilla was not yet done. "T can't feel just right about it, Mother. You've always worked so hard; I felt that we owed you our care and protection—" "Oh, get out, Buttinski!" exclaimed Alvin, losing patience. "What we owe Mother is the inalienable right to do as she pleases! And if she wants to turn the farm into an orphanage or a childrén's convalescent home, I for one will back her to the limit! Get me?" Rilla "'got him" admirably. She went around and gave Mother a kiss. "Any time I can do anything to help, let me know, Mother. I do so want to' see you: happy." Pauline was intently scruntinizing the two children. "Say, when they get a bit more fat on them, they'll be crackerjack models.—Mother, may I come down next summer and paint them—without limitation?" "Of course, you foolish girl. Did I ever refuse you anything you wanted—unless it was bad for you?" "By the way, Mother," spoke Rilla, with smiling curiosity, "when Billy and Margery grow up, will you be adopting another relay?" "eShucks laughed Mother Knox. "It's hard to tell. All I can say is that we'll simply have to wait and see." Save the Extra Expense of Probation on Your Estate ASK US HOW Practically EVERY MAN AND WOMAN has need of service such as our TRUST DEPARTMENT is specially qualified to give. OUR RECORD: OVER FIFTY YEARS OF EFFICIENT, CONSCIENCIOUS SERVICE Zion's Savings Bank and Trust C Zion's Savings Bank and Trust Company 1-3-5 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah WE PAY 4% ON SAVINGS DEPOSITS 1069 East 21st South Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments OUR SPECIAL OFFER With every order of $8.00 or over, you get a Fine Rubber Apron FREE. If you do not need Garments now. Get an order from your friends or neighbors On such orders you are entitled to the premium. Be sure and state whether you want NEW or OLD STYLE, MEN'S or LADIES. LONG or SHORT LEGS. A samba recommended for MEN and can be made with Double ack, PRICE LIST FOR SPRING AND SUMMER, 1925 No. 50 Light weight bleach- *No. 60 Heavy rib. Bleached cotton. Flat weave $.95 ed cotton............ 2.25 No. 51 Fine ribbed cotton No. 64 Fine lisle................... 2.25 in ladies' new style No. 66 Fine mercerized lisle 2.75 only *No 68 Heavy weight, 1/3 No. 3.25 52 Fine ribbed bleached, Cotton 1.50  No 54 Med. Ribbed bleach 1.75 *No. 70 Heavy weight. 50% wool 4.00 56 Medium ribbed unbleached 1.75 No 94 Pure silk -12.00 *No. 58 Heavy ribbed unbleached cotton 2.25 No. 98 Fine cotton with silk stripe....... 1.95. Buy Clothes on Payments  We Outfit The Family Credit to Out-Of-Town People NORD'S 270-272 STATE STREET When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine WHEN YOU BUY AN AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATOR It’s Surprising how long Ice lasts in the Automatic Refrigerator so thoroughly freshens the air in the Automatic that an union on the top e Ti era or shelf won't spoil the butter and milk refrigerator. The Automatic is so dry that you can scratch a match on the inside walls. Try these experiments with other refrigerators—see how the Automatic excels Automatic scientific air circulation how the MODERN FURNITURE CO.. 234 So. State St. Trade with Your Friends Free A bag of Marbles with each pair of Boys Mountaineer Overalls Ask your dealer for them THE FAMOUS Z. FACTORY OVERALLS MOUNTAINEER TRIPLE STITCH A strong, serviceable Overall, for. Every-day "SUMMIT STRONG SEAMS Will give you wonderful service. KANT-RIP Made of high grade denim —reasonable_ in price—wears splendidly. Ask your dealer for them. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine: Trade With Your Friends le L. D. S. GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make-a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request. For Ladies For Men No. 1—Flat Weave Ligt................$ 95 No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight....$1.25 No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light........ 125 No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality... 1.75 No. 15—Extra Quality Flat............ 1.45 No. 925—Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803—Extra Quality Ribb......... 1.50 No. 962—Extra Fine Mercerized No. 862—Extra Fine Mercerized | CG) | ccc 3.00 Lisle 2.50 No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 800—Silk Stripe Med............... 1.75 No. 990—Heavy  Cotton........ 2.50 No. 850—Imp. Lisle................ 2.25 No. 9107—Wool and Cotton.......... 4.00 To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States. Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City Serving the Women to the State A large selection of cultural courses awaits the pleasure of Utah's young women at the State University. THE FIELDS OF EDUCATION, MUSIC, ART, HOME ECONOMICS and BUSINESS, OFFER SPLENDID OPPORTUNITIES. Urge your daughters to plan their educational work early. Now is the time for them to arrange to enter the summer quarter. Write for further information. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY.—. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  A NEW SERIAL STORY "The Lost World" By ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE Other new features in the The Deseret News Kathleen Kaye, writing exclusively in the News. Secretary Hawkins—Everybody should read this. In the Garden with Luther Burbank. A dividend of 10% to all paid in advance Subscribers Subscribe Now Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY a Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear pere pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs  $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and. Durable Per Pair ....$1.50 Box of Three Pair $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking  Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable. All Colors $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS ANNIE A JENSON 3rd EAST BRIGHAM CITY UTAH  are guaranteed pure, full strength and wonderfully rich in flavor. Your cakes and pastry will be improved by using Blue Pine Vanilla and Lemon Extracts. VANILLA extract paymerrn errr tu o Havoy When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. XII JULY, 1925 No. 7 CONTENTS ie tongetAlfred Osmond 337 Lula Greene Richards......Frontispiece Pioneer Woman Editor..........339 Social Service (Illustrated).......... Cora Kasius 345 She Refused to Ride.... Annie Pike Greenwood 349 Editorial 350 Adelia B. Cox Sidwell.................... R. C. Cox 352 Old Glory oo. Hazel S. Washburn 35% Nutrition and Health... Jean Cox 356 Family Budgets............ Rena B. Maycock 359 Editor Abroad.......Alice L. Reynolds 365 Sabbath Sum...E. Curtis 371 Interest to Women.................. Lalene H. Hart 372 Po (rr 374 Notes from Field... Amy B. Lyman 377 Guide Lessons 382 Literature 385 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15e Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Post Be THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. For our success we are indebted to our friends Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 65 West First South Call Your ICE CREAM CANDY: CAKE AS PUNCH Our 30c or deliciously different 50c Special PHONE WAS.3223 Brick GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP  49° Southern Pacific Lines PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY. GOOD RETURNING OCTOBER 31, 1925. For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write. P. BANCROFT, General Agent. Make Sturdy Boys and Girls Our fine quality bottled milk gives health, strength, energy, ambition and success to boys and girls too. It is the best food in the world for growing children. "Daily Deliveries Before Breakfast" CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 4 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 41 South Main Street. 159 WEST Ist SO. Wasatch 3078. WASATCH 2177 WHEN AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATOR 9 Ice lasts in the bottom compartment of the refrigerator. The Automatic is so dry that you can scratch a match on moments with other refrigerators—see Automatic scientific air circulation how the Automatic excels. MODERN FURNITURE CO. Z.C.M.I. FACTORY-MADE KIDDIES' ALLOVERS Dutch Cut They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, stripes and khaki. MOTHERS, they are just what you need for the little tot. Z.C. M. I. FACTORY-MADE Overalls The WAIST OVERALL For Youths—made of 8 or 9 oz. Denim, copper riveted, with yellow stitching—it is quite popular with Junior High School Students. Ask your dealer for them. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE ONION AND THE MATCH 234 So. State St. So thoroughly freshens the air in the Automatic that an onion on the top shelf won't spoil the butter and milk the inside walls. Try these experiments with other refrigerators-see how the Automatic excels Books Recommended for Your Use in Your Relief Society Meetings Works of Eugene Field, com ways Gales of Paradise, and Serve Lincoln, and other poems.. 1.50 Shoes of Happiness, and other Poems 1.50 Man with a Hoe, and other poems 1.50 Joaquin Miller's works: Not listed on any of the catalogs We have, we judge, therefore, to be out of print. Amy Lowell's Poems: Pictures of a Floating a Sword Blades and Poppy Seed A Doom of many colored glass 1.75, Men, Women, and Goats: 1.75 Riley's Poems, most of the cereals and pure water. Also the Lockerby Book of Poems, most of the best ones contained in the Hoosier Book of Verse 3.00 Normal Life, Divine Additional information, lists of other good books and helpful suggestions will be given you without obligation upon application. Becker Products Co. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 FE. On South Temple Street OGDEN UTAH Salt Lake City.  "Save the Extra Expense of Probation on Your Estate" ASK US HOW Practically EVERY MAN AND WOMAN has need of service such as our TRUST DEPARTMENT is specially qualified to give. OUR RECORD: OVER FIFTY YEARS OF EFFICIENT, CONSCIENCIOUS SERVICE Zion's Savings Bank and Trust Company WE PAY 4% ON SAVINGS DEPOSITS In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience. We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at 260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Hoosier Book of Verse 3.00 Normal Life, Divine..... 1.50 Additional information, lists of 1-3-5 South Main Street Salt Lake City Telephones: Was. 5732 and Hyland 180 nutriment to old and young alike.: Everybody likes Becco. Serve it Often. Salt Lake City, Utah Ogden, In Larkin Undertaking Service You have the Softened, Sympathetic Sill of Twenty-five Years’ Experience. We are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at 260 East South Temple St Salt Lake City  466 24th St. Telephone 821-W The Pioneer Alfred Osmond Behold a man, undaunted, unafraid, The Pioneer of trackless, western lands, Who by his energy and faith has made The barren wastes of dry and desert lands To blossom into gladness, one whose hands Have shaped the outlines of a mighty state That rises to our vision and commands The trembling forces of ignoble fate, To gaze into the eyes of one who will be great. Behold the Pioneer! He stands today The center of the gaze of admiration, Because he blazed the rough and rugged way That leads to rich possessions of our nation. The manhood of his might was on probation Through many weary years of toil and pain, But phoenix-like, on opinions of salvation He soared to heights of greatness that sustain The faith and grateful love of dwellers on the plain. Behold the Pioneer! Nor dare to mock His wrinkled brow and horny hands of toil. The lightning's flash and bolts of thunder-shock Were helpless in their native rage to foil The will of this crude tiller of the soil. The eyes that now are dimmed were bright and clear And met the cougar's spring, the rattler's coil, And midnight forms that dangers see and hear, With that relentless look that shows no sign of fear. Behold the Pioneer! The raging storms of life Have beaten hard against the walls of clay That stood against incessant stress and strife Of an existence in the early day. The faithful hands of ruin and decay Will soon consign it to the silent dust; But, fresh and fragrant as the breath of May, The soul ascends to mingle with the just And meet the mighty One in whom it placed its trust. LULA GREENE RICHARDS (From a sketch by her son, Lee Greene Richards) THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII JULY, 1925 No. 7 The Pioneer Woman Editor of the Church Lula Greene Richards, pioneer woman editor of the Church and of Utah, is now seventy-six years of age. The following account of the beginning of women in journalism was written by her.—Editors. When a quarter of a century had passed, after the notable entrance of the Mormon Pioneers into the valley of the Great Salt Lake, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had grown sufficiently strong and powerful to justify the founding of a publication to be owned and conducted by the first auxiliary organization of the Church, the Woman's Relief Society. The Society had come to realize the necessity of such help as should be obtained from the circulation of a periodical especially adapted to the development of their interests impaled in its broad and ever increasing activities. There were many reasons why the women of Utah should consider the issuance of a paper of their own a warrantable enterprise. The editorial in the first number of the paper set forth in a few words that although the women of Utah had been in possession of the ballot for two years, which at the time appeared to be the principal privilege for which women in many places were struggling, there was still ample work to be done in which their paper would prove of great service. There were truths to be disseminated, errors to be combated, intelligence to be communicated, the right to be vindicated, and misrepresentations to be corrected. A clause in the prospectus of the paper reads, "Who are so well able to represent the women of Utah as the women of Utah themselves? And is it not better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others?" The establishment of a woman's paper in Utah meant the entering of a new field, one altogether untried in the west except by Mrs. Duniway, who had just previously started the New North-West, in Portland, Oregon. A feature of vital importance in discussing the pros and cons of the subject in hand was discovered to be the selecting of a suitable person for the editor. Miss Louisa L. Greene, a young woman resident of Smithfield, Cache Valley, who was becoming favorably known to the public through her writings over the nom de plume of "Lula" was strongly recommended as a desirable one for the new editorial position, first by Elder Edward L. Sloan. He was one of the editors of the Salt Lake Herald to which paper Miss Greene was an occasional contributor. Miss Eliza R. Snow, "Zion's Poetess," and the General President of the Relief Society organization, was well acquainted with Miss Greene, having corresponded with her for some time, greatly to the advantage of the young woman educationally. Miss Snow warmly favored E. L. Sloan's suggestion and no other name was considered in competition for the editorial work to be carried on by a woman. The matter was presented to Miss Greene by letter. The young woman was, at that time, in her twenty-third year. Her education had been obtained principally at home under her father's tuition, he being a natural and an excellent teacher. She had for brief intervals attended village schools at times when the circumstances of the family would permit. And she had spent eight months in Salt Lake City attending school. First a four month's term at "Tripp's and Rogers" which was considered one of the best schools of the time. And afterwards a term of the same length at the University of Deseret, beginning at the time when Dr. John R. Park was made President of that institution. Naturally studious, literature had always been a favorite study with her. She had written in prose and in rhyme in such a manner as to attract pleasant attention and call forth encouraging comments at an early age. She was cheerful and optimistic in disposition and cherished high ideals, with an ambition to become an intelligent and a useful writer. But the thought of ever filling a position so responsible and so conspicuous as that of an editor of a real paper to be published and sent out into the world had not come to her until letters from Salt Lake introduced it to her mind. It seemed to Louisa at first glance a most wonderful and providential opportunity for her entering upon a life work which she should always love and find greatest satisfaction in. But being humbly and sensitively aware of her lack of qualification for so important and public a position as the one proffered her she hesitated some time before deciding whether she could or not accept the splendid offer. In reflection and consultation with her parents over the matter many obstacles arose to dampen her ardor and to cause discouraging sensations to take possession of her,
PIONEER WOMAN EDITOR 341
For one thing, it would require separation from home and best beloved ones for an indefinite length of time, perhaps for life, except for occasional visits. This would be a severe trial, as she was an affectionate and favorite daughter and sister in a large and devoted family, and a great lover of home. There were also strong attachments in the ward organizations which it would be hard for her to sever. To leave Cache Valley and go to live in Salt Lake City, which would be necessary should she accept the work offered her in the latter place, would require her being released from the secretaryship of the pioneer branch of the Relief Society, in Smithfield, an office in which she had successfully and happily served for four years. She was also president of the first organization of the young women in the ward, known then as the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association. In Sunday School she was a much interested and greatly beloved teacher of a fine class of halfgrown girls. For a number of terms she had been a teacher in the day schools of the ward, and for a while one of the leading ladies in the ward dramatic association. All these precious ties must be sundered if the young woman should decide to leave these pleasant and interesting duties for the untried vocation of an editor. Experiences of her own as well as object lessons from the lives of others taught Louisa that the scruples which she felt in regard to her lack of qualification for the new work need not stand in the way of her progressing. Two of her practical experiences may with propriety be mentioned here. At the time of her having been regularly appointed by proper authority and sustained as secretary of the Relief Society of Smithfield, she had been away from home attending one of her sisters with a new baby. When she returned home and was told of the honorable position to which she had been called her reply was that she should have to decline the honor because she was sure she could not fill the position with satisfaction either to herself or to others. Her father called her attention to the fact that a member of the Church under ordinary conditions is under obligation to make an attempt to accomplish any work for the Church required by those having authority to appoint. And that any attempt made in humility and faith, manifesting a spirit of obedience would be accepted and would bring blessings. But refusal to accept a proper call would bring the opposite results. And that tender, helpful father added—"Do not suppose, my daughter, that you are to be left to yourself to do your work in your own strength or wisdom. The Lord will help you, and I will help you." The girl acceded to her father's counsel and his words were verified. Another instance never to be forgotten was in connection
342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
with Louisa's work in the Sunday school. The lessons for all our auxiliary organizations in those earlier days were not outlined as they are now. Officers and teachers were expected to work out lessons appropriate to the needs of their classes in their own ways. In the Smithfield Sunday school a plan had been adopted by which the reviewing of one of the classes was an interesting feature of each Sabbath morning. On the occasion to which reference will here be made Louisa was to review her class and she had taken great pains to have a suitable lesson well prepared by both teacher and pupils. But on Sunday morning—she just did not feel equal to the task of presenting the lesson to the school as she realized it should be done. An hour or so before time to start for Sunday school, Louisa told her mother she was not feeling well. Her head was inclined to ache and her throat felt dry and slightly sore. "Mother," she asked, "do you think it will be wrong for me to miss Sunday School today if I spend the morning reading and stay at home?" "Why, my child," the mother answered, "if you are really sick and feel it will be best for you not to go to Sunday school then certainly there can be no wrong in your remaining at home. But if you have the feeling come simply from nervousness over the thought of giving that lesson you have been so strenuously drilling your girls on for the last two weeks, I would pluck up courage and go, and present the lesson in the excellent way you are sure to give it, and not disappoint the school, especially your class which you have made so enthusiastic by your painstakings with them." The young woman had invited her class to her home for rehearsals and the mother knew whereof she spoke. The daughter was convinced of her duty and promptly appeared at her place in Sunday school, before time for the opening. Her bright little girls were there also ahead of time as she had requested them to be. As she greeted them smilingly one of the superintendency came down off the stand and shook hands with Louisa saying, "Our Territorial superintendent of schools, Brother Robert L. Campbell, is here from Salt Lake. He is visiting the schools in all the settlements and is inspecting our school this morning. Let us show him a good Sunday school." There was still a little time left and Louisa repeated to the class the startling yet stimulating information she had just received, adding the injunction, "Let us not be afraid, girls, but all speak up bravely and clearly so as to be heard and understood." The day being the Sunday nearest the Twenty-fourth of July, Louisa had concisely written the lesson for her class in dialogue form on that always interesting portion of Church history which gives the account of the travels of the "Mormon" pioneers and
PIONEER WOMAN EDITOR 343
their first entrance into the valley of the Great Salt Lake. The lesson so appropriate to the day was well arranged and the teacher and pupils were highly favored and successful in their efforts to give it a fine rendition. The review was referred to and praised by members of the school for a long time after that day. And from their well versed and intelligent visitor, Brother Robert L. Campbell, it elicited very warm and encouraging commendation. During his remarks the Territorial school superintendent also paid Louisa an unexpected and inspiring eulogy on the editorial work she had recently done on a manuscript paper called The Smithfield Sunday School Gazette. Having examined the modest journal carefully, Brother Campbell held it up in his hand and declared it to be the most interesting and worthy example of its class that he had found in the schools of Utah Territory. Realizing the genuine uplifting influence of the credits gained that day both to herself and the dear Sunday school, Louisa was exceedingly happy. And she did not forget to be grateful that she had listened to the timely suggestions of her mother and made necessary sacrifices in order to fulfil her duty. The memory of such instances as the two here related proved valuable to the young woman when a larger and more serious crisis had come into her life. While talking of the greater work presented to her, one day, her mother was led to remark, "You have often expressed a desire to go on a mission and preach the gospel. Why not accept this call as a mission, and write your testimonies of the truth instead of proclaiming them by word of mouth? It would be less trying to your timidity and sensitiveness." That idea was a good one and helped to settle the question. Louisa wrote to Sister Snow that if President Young would give her the work of editing the woman's paper as a mission she would accept it as such and would do her best to make a success of it. Miss Snow read her letter to President Young and then wrote to Louisa that the President said, "Tell her I will give her that work as a mission and will bless her in it." The great leader of his people, Brigham Young, proved faithful to that promise, as he did to all his promises of blessings to all who trusted him as an inspired prophet of the Lord and sought to carry out his counsel. Louisa also proved faithful to the trust reposed in her. Early in the spring of 1872, Louisa left her home in Smithfield and became a permanent resident of Salt Lake City. The name of the new publication, The Woman's Exponent, as well as its editor, was a suggestion of E. L. Sloan's. At first the ladies thought it was not euphonious enough, but afterwards they accepted it. The intention was that the first issue of the paper should
344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bear the date of April 1, and be just in time for circulation at Spring conference, beginning April 6. But in this the editor and publishers were disappointed, because of some tie-up on the railroad preventing the arrival of paper which had necessarily been ordered from the east. By this hindrance the advent of the birth of The Woman's Exponent was deferred for two months. The delay proved advantageous, however, as it gave time for better preparation and some beneficial changes. The first home which Louisa found in the city was at the family residence of her great uncle, Lorenzo D. Young, who was bishop of the Eighteenth ward. The home was on State street, one block north of the Eagle Gate. There in her room the young woman began her editorial work. Her paper was first published by The Salt Lake Herald Company. Just west of the Eagle Gate, is the Lion House and there Eliza R. Snow lived as a member of the family of Brigham Young, one of his wives. It was very convenient for Louisa to visit her there. This she frequently did and often had the privilege of accompanying Sister Snow to the prayer room where the President met with his family morning and evening at the appointed hour for family worship. Louisa prized this sacred privilege very highly, it was a source of much comfort and keen enjoyment to her. "Aunt Eliza," as Sister Snow was affectionately called, and Miss Greene, who was becoming better known as "Lula," soon became very close and most sincere friends. They were truly like mother and daughter. They understood and appreciated each other. The love which existed between them was founded on gospel truth and was not to be shaken. Lula also found many others of the older and most prominent women of Utah tender and motherly in their feelings and deportment toward her. In fact she was shown great respect and friendliness everywhere, by all with whom she became acquainted. In that earlier time a General Board of the Relief Society was not organized extensively, as it is today. Lula soon became one of the sisters at the headquarters chosen at times to visit the different branches of the Society and to encourage, instruct and assist in uplifting and improving the work in general. And it is but expressing the truth to say she became a favorite with the sisters and was often asked for as a visitor at their special meetings and conferences. This gratifying recognition she enjoyed for many years not only among branches of the Relief Society but also with the younger associations. These privileges with their responsibilities came to her certainly from the fact of her having been selected as the pioneer editor among the women of the Latter-day Saints and her having accepted the position. That was the beginning of woman's journalism in Utah. The laying of a foundation upon which noble and progressive structures have been, and likely will continue to be, built.
The Relief Society Social Service Institute Cora Kasius
A twelve-weeks' course in family welfare work, conducted under the auspices of the Relief Society General Board, has just been completed. This is the second institute for which the board has been responsible, the first having been held at Provo, Utah, in connection with the Brigham Young University, in the summer of 1920. The present institute opened on March 11 and continued until May 29, meeting daily at Relief Society headquarters. The members of the institute were representatives from the various Salt Lake county stakes. Each of the nine Salt Lake county stakes was authorized to send one stake representative and four or five ward representatives. Two stakes asked for the special privilege of sending two stake representatives; so there were in all a total of eleven stake workers and twenty-six ward workers. Both the stake and ward workers met three days a week for three hours where an intensive study was made of methods of family welfare work, of special problems of health, mental disease, delinquency, etc., and of the literature on social work. The stake representatives were asked to be present two additional days each week, during which time they visited various institutions of the state and made a special study of social problems which are dealt with in the welfare departments of the Relief Society. The institute was under the supervision of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society, who was assisted by other General Board members and by Miss Cora Kasius and the following other members of the staff of the Relief Society Welfare Department: Miss Lydia Alder, Miss Genevieve Thornton, and Miss Anna Laura Stohl. A course of lectures was given by these social workers in modern methods of family welfare work. The lectures included a history of the charity movement, a study of social reforms, a study of the case work method, a discussion of the elements of normal life, an analysis of the standard of living, a study of problems of income and expenditure, of health problems, of behavior problems, of the backward child, and other related social problems. Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, social worker for the Castle Gate Relief Fund Committee, Miss A. A. Buffington, secretary of the Charity Organization Society of Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Amy W. Evans of the Relief Society General Board, addressed the institute on different occasions, presenting some of these subjects. In making a study of the various special problems, a number
A GROUP OF SOCIAL WORKERS IN THE SOCIETY SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE 347
of experts were asked to give addresses to the institute. Problems of health, of mental disease, and of housekeeping were especially emphasized. The specialists made a very important contribution to the institute and their instruction was greatly appreciated by the members of the class and by the General Board. These lectures included: The family as a Social Unit, by Dr. E. Erickson of the University of Utah; A Report of the Goitre Survey of Utah, by Dr. James Wallace of the Utah State Board of Health; The Early Detection of Disease, by Dr. George W. Middleton. The Venereal Disease Control Program in Utah was the subject of two lectures given by Mr. Peter Kasius of the U. S. Public Health Service. Dr. Dean Brimhall of the New York Psychological Corporation appeared before the institute on two occasions, discussing the types and gradations of intelligence, and outlining the development of mental tests by psychologists. Dr. Foster J. Curtis of the U. S. Veterans' Bureau, gave a series of talks in which he discussed the types of mental disease, the early detection of mental disease, and the causes and treatment of mental disorders. Dr. G. H. Pace gave two lectures to the institute on Mental Hygiene, emphasizing particularly the behavior of children and the development of the Mental Hygiene Movement in America. Dr. Ray T. Woolsey addressed the Institute on the subject of pre-natal and maternity care, and Dr. A. L. Brown subsequently gave an address on infant welfare. During the Institute, four different nurses addressed the class: Mrs. J. D. Hammond of the Metropolitan Life Nursing Association, and Mrs. W. W. Hudson of the American Smelting & Refining Company, discussed the work of the Public Health Nurse; Miss Lucy P. Pocock, supervisor of Nurses of the L. D. S. Hospital, gave a talk on the health of the young girl, and Miss Dora Maben discussed the health problems of the pre-school child. Addresses on homemaking, on budget planning, and on food values, were made by Miss Jean Cox of the State Department of Education, and by Mrs. Lalene H. Hart of the Relief Society General Board. A study was first made of food values and the dietary needs of the human mechanism. In a practical way it was shown which foods and what amounts of food have been found to be essential to promote proper growth and development of individuals of various ages. A study was then made of the costs of foods and with this as a basis, various budgets were outlined and computed. Studies were made of the amount of money it would take to keep an infant, a sick person, a person living alone, and families of different sizes, supplied with the necessary food. Other costs besides food costs were studied and budgets covering all the expenditures of a family were computed for families of limited incomes. Plans were made for both small and large families and the figures were based on local prices,
348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Elder Stephen L. Richards, of the Quorum of the Twelve, and David A. Smith of the Presiding Bishopric, both addressed the class on different occasions emphasizing the need of spiritual instruction and the importance of spiritual growth in order to give to a family its greatest stability and its most permanent strength. A study of the literature of social work was an important part of the Institute. Various books by national authorities on social problems were presented to the class, some of them in lecture form. The class members were required to read and study four different books: The Normal Life, by Edward T. Devine; The Charity Visitor, by Amelia Sears; What Social Workers Should Know About their Communities, by Margaret Byington; The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, by Karl De Scheinitz. Three hours a week were spent in reviewing and discussing the various books. Social Diagnosis, by Mary E. Richmond, was used as a reference book and also as a text by the instructors in planning the lectures in methods of family welfare work. The stake workers visited a number of institutions with the idea of learning what facilities the community has in treating problems of health, delinquency, crime, dependency, etc. The different health institutions visited were: the County Hospital, the County Infirmary, the Community Clinic, the City Board of Health, the Primary Convalescent Home, the State School for the Deaf and Blind, in Ogden, and the State Mental Hospital, in Provo. In making a survey of the community's resources for treating delinquency and crime, the following institutions were visited: the State Industrial School in Ogden, the Juvenile Court of Salt Lake City, the Girls' Detention Home, the City Court, the City Jail, the Sheriff's Office, the County Jail, and the State Penitentiary. Visits were also made to the Neighborhood House of Salt Lake City and the State Orphanage, where the work of these two institutions in caring for children was explained by the officers in charge. On the afternoon of June 1, closing exercises including a reception were held at the Relief Society headquarters where the members of the class were the guests of the General Board. The opening and closing prayers were offered by Counselor Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the General Board. A report of the Institute was made by Miss Cora Kasius; addresses were made by two class members, Mrs. Mabel W. James and Mrs. Clarice Tanner, and by President Clarissa S. Williams, Counselor Louise Y. Robison, and General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman of the General Board. Musical numbers were rendered by Mrs. Agnes Bolto, and at the close of the program, refreshments were served. A photograph which is printed herewith, was taken of the class members, of the stake Relief Society board members and the General Board members who were present.
SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE 349
The attendance at the Institute was excellent, all the members making a very good record. Members of the General Board. And also members of the stake boards were invited to attend and there were always a number present. The enrolled members of the class, by stakes, were: Cottonwood: stake worker, Anna L. Johanson; ward workers, Pansy Olander, Francis D. Fowler, Margaret Powell; Ensign: stake worker, Mabel W. James; ward workers, Bae Williams, Sadie Cutler; Grant: stake workers, Marie H. Tanner, Marie K. Nash; ward worker, Mrs. M. C. Clements; Granite: stake worker, Mabel Olsen; ward workers, Gertrude Thompson and Hattie Blair; Jordan: stake workers, Maud P. Butterfield, Helen Vawdery; ward workers, Lucy B. Godfery, Mrs. J. W. Grace, Veda Cundick, Edna Call; Liberty: stake worker, Phoebe Lundberg; ward workers, Hetta Taylor, Sophronia Forsberg, Ruth Keyser, Ruby Stevenson, Aara Fagergren; Pioneer stake: stake worker, Jean V. Burt; ward workers, Clarice Tanner, Daisy Crockett, Eleanor Crockett, Maisie Hurst; Salt Lake: stake worker, Mary Ostler, ward workers, Julia G. Miller, Mrs. Maud Parry, Agnes McMillan, Amelia Winkworth, Mildred Jenkins; Oquirrh: stake worker, Lois Turpin.
She Refused to Ride with Charles Dickens
The mother of a prominent woman in Rupert, Idaho, has an English friend whose mother had taught her never to accept a ride with a stranger. One day, as this woman, then a young girl, was walking along an English road, a man in a chaise stopped and asked her if she would like a ride. "No, thank you," replied the girl, "my mother has told me never to ride with strangers." "Young woman," answered the stranger, "you have an excellent mother!" For only a moment did the young girl continue her walk in complacent satisfaction. A friend, who had observed the encounter from afar, inquired of the girl what business she might have had with Charles Dickens. "Charles Dickens!" exclaimed the horrified girl, "was that Charles Dickens?" "It most certainly was Charles Dickens. I know him well by sight." "And I just refused to ride with him!" —Annie Pike Greenwood.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elsie B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XII JULY, 1925, No. 7
Our Pioneer Heritage
The question of the relative value of heredity and environment has been discussed now for a long while. That both are important is probably conceded, but that heredity is the more important seems to be the conclusion that we are pretty generally forced to in the light of present-day investigations in the field of eugenics and other sciences interested in heredity. Recently, Alfred Edward Wiggam has created a good deal of discussion by his new book called "The Decalogue of Science." In this book Mr. Wiggam says there are people who inherently have real power, others have not, and the sad thing about it is that those who have not real power cannot attain it. Mr. Lothrop Stoddard of Harvard evidently had the same thought in mind when he said, "No amount of environment can lift mediocrity into greatness." We read further from a commentator on this subject, "Inheritance of social position isn't important, though it may be comfortable; the inheritance of money may be a misfortune instead of a fortune; but the inheritance that is of worth is the inheritance of an innate desire to do the right thing as nearly as one knows it, to be honest and to be kind, to be ever lighted by the best light that one can see—that is the sweetest inheritance of all the earth. It is the finest thing that can be given to one in life—and the most vital." The words that we have quoted are the reflections of students and thinkers and are in line with the thoughts of the Latter-day Saints.
EDITORIAL 351
It is for this reason that we have pride in stating that we are the sons and daughters of the Pioneers; because the Pioneers were not in search of gold, but were following "the best light that they could see." They had an "innate desire" to serve God and to serve their fellowman; and in order to realize these objectives they sacrificed all earthly things, suffered privation, toiled unceasingly, and, in some instances, met death by starvation. Much of the pride that the early settlers of America feel because of the Puritan blood that runs in their veins is the pride of having descended from persons whose ideals were those of service to God, their fellowman, and their country.
Woman's Champion
The death of President Charles W. Penrose should not be allowed to pass without a separate expression in these pages of our deep appreciation for his vigorous defense of woman's rights at a time when those rights were denied. No cause ever had a greater champion. He based his views on this question, as on every other, on fundamental principles of right. For a government like the United States to "shut out one class of its citizens from participating in the rights, privileges, and benefits" of citizenship he characterized as "anomalous, inconsistent, despotic, and anti-republican." This is strong language, and it was uttered as far back as 1880—forty-five years ago. To be sure, he was frank enough to admit, "there are some offices for which women are not adapted," but, even so, he asked with his usual wit and truth, "are there not also some offices for which many men are not adapted?" He favored woman's political emancipation, not merely because it was her natural right to vote and hold office if she cared to, but also because to withhold this right from her "prevents the people from placing women in positions of trust"—a distinction that does equal justice to his head and his heart. But President Penrose was especially anxious that women should have equal political rights with men in Utah. "Utah," he proudly urged in a speech in the Legislature, "is the home of liberty for all. It is peculiarly the sanctuary for women. Here all her rights are popularly acknowledged and accorded; here she is protected and defended; here the conventionalities which have kept her in bondage for ages are thrown aside by the force of an enlightened estimate of her capabilities and an enlarged view of her claims as an integral part of the body politic." And then, at the conclusion of a powerful defense of a bill to give women their rights, he said: "Remove this ugly and staring brand of woman's political inferiority from our statute books!"
A Short Biography of Adelia B. Cox Sidwell Rosco C. Cox
Adelia Balinda Cox Sidwell—affectionately known to many as "Grandma Sidwell," and to a host of relatives as "Aunt Adie"—was born December 1, 1841, in Lima, Illinois, a small settlement near Nauvoo. In the fall of 1845 mob violence and the burning of Lima forced her parents and the other settlers to seek refuge in Nauvoo. Aunt Adie well remembered the burning of Lima, and she carried water to the sick who had been taken from their homes and lay helpless on the ground. She remained in Nauvoo with her parents until February, 1846, when they crossed the Mississippi River and lived in Iowa until the necessary preparations could be made to go to the Rocky Mountains. She crossed the plains in C. C. Rich's company, experiencing all the hardships attendant upon such a journey, and finally arrived in Salt Lake valley on October 3, 1847, but a little over two months after the arrival of the first band of pioneers. Her parents spent the winter in Salt Lake; but early next spring her father planted a crop north of Salt Lake in what was then Sessions Settlement, now known as Bountiful, and of which place he was made the first bishop. They remained there long enough to raise but two crops. The little girl of six years helped save the first crop by taking an active part in the fight against the crickets. Her father made her a wooden paddle with which for six long weeks she industriously "smashed crickets" twelve to fourteen hours each day. In the autumn of 1849 they were called to help establish settlements in Sanpete valley, and they took up their journey south, arriving in what is now Manti, on November 19, 1849, after having traveled for one month to cover the distance from Salt Lake. In the following May she actively assisted in killing the hosts of rattlesnakes which swarmed from the rocky hillsides to torment the settlers. It took many years to exterminate these hissing reptiles; but it is estimated that in one night at least fifteen hundred were killed. Her parents remained in Manti a little over ten years during which time she was an active, robust girl with an appetite for books that was astonishing. She always made it a point when she read a bit of news, a story, or some history, to go to her geography and locate each setting on the map. She wanted to know the kinds of actions produced by each part of the earth's surface. She
ADELIA B. COX SIDWELL 353
exhibited so much intelligence that one Amasa Marian of Salt Lake offered to board her and let her attend the University of Utah and study under Dr. Park. Her father objected to what he termed this "waste of time," but her mother insisted that she should have an opportunity to develop mentally. Others joined with the mother in urging that the girl be given this privilege until finally the father consented; and, on one of his trips for supplies, he took her to Salt Lake behind his ox team. She attended school for "six whole weeks;" not very long, but long enough to teach her how to study and give her a few practical pointers on how to teach. She put both acquired gifts into practice and became a very successful teacher even before she was sixteen years old. In 1860 she moved with her parents to Fairview and she taught school there until 1864. She not only taught school, but engineered entertainments for the ward, organized dramatic clubs, wrote plays, and memorized many of Shakespeare's and Sir Walter Scott's works. Bernice Brown of Manti tells of her reciting most of "The Lady of The Lake" to the Brown children in 1923—when she was 82 years old. Through the stage her pupils became quite familiar with these old and valued classics. Her life was full of fun at that time and not devoid of lovers and love scenes. Most of the lovers were turned away with kindly jokes; but one, of whom her companions often told, was treated with some jolly ridicule. Finally a soldier,
thirty years of age and eight years her senior, captured her attention and induced her to share his fate. On April 13, 1864, she married George Sidwell, of Nephi. He operated a saw mill east of Ephraim, and they decided to make their home in Manti. During her nineteen years of married life, she bore nine children, eight of whom are still living. From 1864 to 1883 her life was full of home duties; but not so full that she could not give some time to public work. She kept alive her love of the drama, not only by coaching home talent, but by occasionally taking heavy and difficult parts in the productions. When in the seventies, suffrage was given to the supposedly "downtrodden females of Utah," that they be able to cast off the so-called "yoke of oppression of the Priesthood," a new field was opened for her active mind. She industriously studied the laws of the land and of the Territory of Utah that she might intelligently cast her vote. She was not slow to see inconsistent laws and to call the attention of the law-makers to needed amendments. In 1884, when the women of Utah were disfranchised because they had not revolted against their husbands, she became an active suffragette—almost belligerent one. She found sisters of the same heart and with them organized a suffrage society, and Manti became a hotbed for "Women's Rights."  354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Her husband met with a fatal accident in Joe's Valley, and on Sept. 21, 1883, she was left a widow. The fates had taken from her nearly all the property her husband's foresight and untiring efforts had accumulated; so, with eight small children ranging in age from 14 to 18 years, she began a struggle for their existence on the boulder-strewn quarter-section of sagebrush land in the mouth of City Creek canyon. Almost alone she built their home, (her oldest son was seven years old), cleared the land, planted crops of grain and alfalfa, set out fruit trees, and planted flowers—flowers everywhere. In the cupping split of a huge boulder she stuffed fertile soil and planted a flower seed. On the north side of a boulder she poured an apron full of soil and planted a bulb of a flower that needed shade; and on the south side, in more fertile soil, carried in her apron, she planted the seed of a flower that needed sunshine. Over the ugly boulders she trained creeping vines; and over all her land one could come across some flower she had nurtured where crops for food could not grow. Her love for flowers and her admiration for the beauties of nature amounted to a passion. In the face of this, is it at all surprising that her many friends wonder at the word that has gone out from her that she wants "no hot house flowers at her funeral." Let me tell you why she expressed such a wish: A widow whom Aunt Adie had known and loved—whose life had been a bitter struggle against poverty and want—lost a manly son. Friends, who loved him and wanted to show their respect, literally buried his casket under expensive flowers. One spray alone cost thirty-five dollars. Aunt Adie's love for justice caused her soul to "shriek aloud"—W’hy this waste? Why did they not give the poor mother the money that she might be relieved for a little time of the distress of poverty?" She was willing that her friends should bring flowers from their homes; but she wanted the money that usually goes for expensive flowers, to be used for the living rather than for her unseeing body. But to return to her activities—during the forty-one years of her widowhood—aside from wresting a sort of living for her big family from the unfertile soil—she served as president of the Primary for a great many years and taught a class in Sunday school for no few years. She also assisted in awakening the dormant minds of the women of this county to a realization of their personal duties regarding the civic life of the new State to be; so that by their efforts they greatly assisted in placing the article in our State Constitution that gave suffrage to women. We might also mention that she was the first to observe June first as "Primary Day;" and that her sacrifices for the good of the North Ward Primary are seldom equaled. We can picture her—tired from working like a man on her farm—plodding the ADELIA B. COX SIDWELL 355 long way from her home to conduct the Primary meeting; then in the late evening or night wearily trudging home again. During her widowhood she entered a contest and wrote a history of Sanpete that was adjudged the best, although five of the county's ablest men contested against her. Her mind, her spirit, her ambitions, and her hopes were at least 50 years ahead of her time; and also ahead of her circumstances. Now, as one friend has expressed it, that this noble spirit has been released from its cramped surroundings and can progress as she has always longed to progress, it should be a time of rejoicing to those who loved her, and not a time of selfish - sorrow. I Love Old Glory Hazel S. Washburn I love old Glory's stars and stripes, I love her colors too, I love each bar, each gleaming star, I love the red, white and blue. I love the things they stand for, Justice and Liberty. Forever wave o'er the home of the brave, Thou emblem of the free. Then hail to the flag! Our country's flag! Give her allegiance true, Off with your hat as the flag goes by, The Red, the White and the Blue. We love old Glory ever, when her fair folds kiss the breeze. We sing her praise in wartime, But we reverence her in peace. God haste the day when every flag Shall herald liberty; And in every land a joyous band Sing anthems to the free.' Then hail to the flag, our country's flag, Give her allegiance true, Off with your hat as the flag goes by, The Red, the White and the Blue. Relation of Nutrition to Health By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education In traveling over the state, I am frequently impressed with the health and vigor of many-of the mothers and realize this is so because they have lived up to their best knowledge of health. The Word of Wisdom counsels us to eat grains, vegetables and fruits and a little meat. These requirements are very much in accord with the present scientific teaching in nutrition. Not long ago I traveled with a former teacher of the Utah Agricultural College who made this statement: "The Utah girls are the most beautiful in the whole world." They are beautiful because health is beautiful, and they are from healthy parents. Perhaps some of you feel that this present emphasis on diet is unnecessary as the pioneers had little variety in food and were generally healthy. In some cases their dire need for food was much in their favor. They used greens because they had to. Their mustard, dandelion, pigweed and beet tops greens and cress were practically the equivalent of the approved spinach and lettuce today. They used milk generally and the average milk consumption was greater than it is today in spite of all of the emphasis that has been given it the past five years. They lived in sunlight, because they had to work out of doors in order to get sustenance and shelter from new lands. Recent discoveries show that direct sunshine is one of the best means we have of preventing rickets. Exercise and out-of-doors and sunshine also stimulate appetite which is also necessary for good health. Perhaps some of you wonder why there is so much emphasis on the relation of nutrition to health. It is largely the result of the study of cause and effect. There are too many cases of illness of various kinds in which wrong diet has been a contributing factor. In order to better understand the relationship between - diet and health, scientists in different universities throughout the world have been endeavoring to find out both immediate and cumulative effects of foods that are incorrect as to amount and kinds. These careful studies have introduced us to the needs of the so-called protective foods which are in two classes—minerals and vitamins. Another contributing factor for this interest in nutrition has been the increasing use of highly refined foods which has eliminated the natural ash and vitamins of different foods. In place of molasses and honey, sugar is used almost exclusively. Highly milled flours have superseded the use of whole grain. The tendency of people to live in cities has taken people from small com- RELATION OF NUTRITION TO HEALTH 357 munities to the larger centers. This has increased the consumption of perishable foods, such as milk, fresh fruits and vegetables and made it difficult for many families to include them in the diet. Tendency to over-consumption of sweets and fats have also decreased the use of some of the more wholesome foods. We may confidently expect that a better and broader application of our present knowledge of food and nutrition will help greatly in the attainment of the best that heredity permits and thus bring to a much larger proportion of our people that full measure of health and vigor which only the more fortunate now enjoy. Health is an individual responsibility. It is your individual responsibility to be as well as you possibly can. It is most decidedly the responsibility of the mothers to have children as well as they possibly can be. Science has contributed much information within the past twenty years to improve health standards and increase the span of life. There are many welfare, health, and business agencies which are doing splendid work along different health lines. Some of the largest life insurance companies have proved that it pays to be well. The welfare divisions of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company are offering a wealth of free material on child care, maternal care as well as assistance of specialists whose responsibility is to help people to keep well. Department stores and industrial concerns have found that the employment of a dietician and the provision of an adequate lunch for employees insure better work. The opportunity this affords for employees to obtain at moderate price milk, green vegetables, and fresh foods, helps to make the average limited diet much more satisfactory. Lengthening the life span is a paying proposition, whether the saving is for the individual or corporation. The well nourished child may be distinguished by having the following characteristics: He has strong, straight bones. Healthy teeth that will last a life time; well constructed organs that will perform their various functions; good color of skin, hair, eyes; firm, well-built muscles; weight, approximately standard weight for height; high resistance to infectious diseases, especially those of the respiratory tract such as colds, tuberculosis, bronchitis. Pneumonia and grippe. Perhaps you wonder why the emphasis on the relation between diet and good respiratory tract—observation of individuals will help you to prove this. Where there is a tendency to chronic cold the diet is probably at fault, provided the individual exercise in the open air and sleep with open windows. There have been some recent experimental studies conducted by Dr. Sherman of Columbia University along this line. He took two groups of experimental animals, On one group was used a normal food allowance which produced normal development and such resistance to disease that 358 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they lived to a good old age, reaching the normal life span of their species. The other group he fed on rations adequate in every respect except vitamin A, and they reached the mature size but lived only one-half the normal life span, and many of the animals died of diseases of the lungs. These animals, fed on a diet deficient in Vitamin A, did not manifest signs of physical impairment during the period of growth and yet they were destined to an early death because of the defects in the diet. Foods furnishing comparatively large amount of Vitamin A are butter, green-leaf vegetables, milk and root vegetables. We want better health standards. Health means strength and vigor and with maturity ability to produce vigorous young. And finally a normal span of life for both parent and children. The emphasis on the ability to reproduce vigorous young is important, as there is increasing recognition of the fact that food _ habits may show a clearer and more pronounced effect upon the health of the second generation than on the first. Some effects of dietary deficiencies have been found literally to be visited upon the children to the third and fourth generation. The more carefully we guard the food habits of this generation the less the danger that the next generation will not be long-lived, healthy citizens. Adequate nutrition is built upon four different lines of research, and all are necessary in planning a nutrition. These are: 1. Sufficient amount of digestible fuel foodstuffs to yield, when burned in the body, the necessary number of calories of energy. 2. Enough protein of suitable kinds. 3. Adequate amounts and proper proportions of the so-called mineral elements. 4. Enough of at least three kinds of vitamins. If we analyze the above it means: use of breadstuffs and other grain products with some sugars and fats as additional sources of energy; the use of meats (including fish and poultry) -which are rich in protein or fat, or both, but highly important as sources of mineral elements and vitamins; fruits and vegetables highly important as sources of mineral elements and vitamins; milk, important as sources of energy, protein, mineral elements and vitamins. This is the most efficient of all foods in making good the deficiencies of grains and insuring all around adequacy of the diet. The average. American diet, composed largely of breadstuffs, sweets, meats and fats, while it may be satisfying to the palate and to the traditional demand for variety, is inadequate because it lacks in minerals and vitamins. Much has been done along the line of human betterment within the past twenty years. We have reached the stage when instruction in scientific nutrition should be a part of the problem of the student RELATION OF NUTRITION TO HEALTH — 359 of primary, secondary and higher school education. Experience has proved that one of the best means of educating children in nutrition is to educate the mothers. With the many organizations it ought not to be difficult to educate the mothers as to the importance of the nutrition program. The other day I heard a woman question a statement made from the pulpit that food has a moral value. It does have a decided moral value. Too large a number of boys and girls sent to reformatories have been underweight. Dr. Sherman of Columbia University freely concedes that food does have a moral value. On experiments with animals it has been found that the simple increase in the amount of milk has resulted in, both a more rapid and a more efficient growth. This result is shown in both earlier maturity and also in deferring: old age. These animals also attained a somewhat larger size, better success in rearing young, and an even more marked improvement in general health and vigor in the second generation than in the first. It has been proved that by starting with a diet already adequate we may, by the improvement of the diet, induce a higher degree of health and vigor. ' Increasing interest is shown in the better baby movement and it is possible that we have not yet determined the optimum rate of growth. Good nutrition will result in superior health in both the present and the future health standards of yourself and family. Family Budgets and the Rural Home Mrs. Rena B. Maycock Women in rural communities have shown unusual interest recently in discussions of family Standards of Living and Home Budgets. Budget interest among rural women is in itself unusual for it has been found in the past that farm women particularly have quite a positive notion that the "Family Budget is all right for — the city woman, with a regular cash income, but it doesn't work on the farm." This is a budget age. The budget conscience is already active in governmental affairs, state and national; industrial and commercial organizations, great and small, recognize that their stability and growth is fundamentally dependent upon a carefully planned budget. The business of the home, the greatest business in the world, has far greater need of the budget than any other organization 360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  The rural home in ratio of responsibilities has even greater need of a budget than the urban home. It has a more compelling natural obligation to civilization. All other industries draw upon agriculture as the source of supplies, human as well as material. The most vital interests of the nation operate through the rural home not only in providing raw materials but in determining national character. "The character of its rural people, their intelligence and dependability, is the first factor in determining the strength and endurance of a nation and its ultimate fitness for democracy." The Home Budget is fundamentally a character builder. The first character responsibility of the "civilized" home is to socialize its members by bringing them into a consciousness of the interdependencies of life through the family circle. This cannot begin too early. The small child can be led from animal selfishness into sympathetic service. It requires, however, intelligent guidance—the willingness to pay the price in time, in thought, and in methodical action. Intelligent guidance depends upon clearness of vision, the definiteness with which objectives are measured. Objectives can be measured only in specific terms. Ideas and ideals must be made very concrete to a child. He must be led to visualize relationships and be taught to see what there is to do about securing, a desired end. The family budget is a very specific thing. It sets up standards for family living in a very concrete way. Limitations and expansions can be pointed out objectively, and relationships can be clearly demonstrated. The family income, large or small, is a very specific thing and its intelligent distribution is still more "specific. The matter of income seems to be one of the baffling snags in budget making by the farm family. Because the farm income is not definitely cash and regular, it is likely to be regarded as not tangible and therefore not concretely applicable. It must be admitted that mere mathematical computation may be easier with a regular cash income—but the ease of cash may lose some of the finest values in the budget. The person with salary or wage may have a regular cash income but he may be cramped and hindered in resources and advancements, Individual ability and initiative are less likely to operate at their best if the systems which absorb them are commercial or political machines which in their greedy grinding use men as wheels rather than as humans. The farm affords more resources for income for the entire family, more freedom for individual adjustments, and better opportunity for distribution of responsibilities among its family members than does the city. The lack of individual responsibility in family life is said to be the greatest disintegrating influence in FAMILY BUDGETS 361 3 the American home today. If the outcome of an income is to be in terms of character rather than of cash here is a national challenge to the rural home with its helpful environment. The modern family budget is not to be confused with the old-fashioned keeping of accounts, the main purposes of which were to list petty money transactions in orderly columns and to redline monthly and yearly summaries into neat balances for "final rest in darkened files of futility." Rightly interpreted the budget is more concerned with character than with cash. It becomes decisive in its relation to immediate problems of family health, education, advancement, and welfare, also an indicator of possibilities for future growth and development. The budget works in character development only by common consent—participation by all members of the family. There must be no one family accountant. The mother must not assume account keeping as her special task. She must reserve her energies for direction and supervision which are far more important than account keeping. A fundamental rule of the family budget is that all members of the family shall know the family income and shall assist in determining its distribution. This makes necessary the establishment of a family council, the council to meet at regular intervals to do business jointly for the material, the mental and the spiritual welfare of the family, to make divisions of labor and assignment of responsibilities and to give proper moral and financial support to each assignment. It is important that each member be given a stewardship of some division of the budget with accountability to the family in council sessions. Recent contacts with about 1,300 rural high school girls showed through personal inquiry that only six of these girls could claim with any confidence that they knew their own family income and its distribution, and sensed their own relationships and responsibilities with regard to it. Less than one third of 1,200 farm housewives could claim to know definitely the total income of their farms, the amount of farm produce consumed by the family and the distribution of the cash expenditures. A class of fifteen high school girls planned personal clothing budgets ranging in cost from $85 to $335 per girl per year. Not one of them knew the family income nor what might rightfully be her own share of the income for her own clothing. Yet each girl confidently expected to get all the clothing included in her plan. One mother in discussing the incident said, "Well, girls these days certainly expect to get what they want! Now, my daughter, for instance, insisted she must have a new party dress for the Junior Prom—all the other girls were having them. When her father and I protested she went into such a tantrum and made it so dis. 362 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE agreeable for the whole family that—that—well, what else could we do?" Some one has humorously said that "the average home is the most despotic institution in the world, and is ruled by the worst disposition in it." How could the girl whose personal budget plans called for twelve pairs of silk hose for the year at an average of two dollars a pair sense her relationship to the family and its income and see virtue beyond a selfish satisfaction, when to her the only price of ownership meant a vigorous display of temper? Intelligent, sympathetic co-operation of children in the family can be enjoyed only when the children understand the true family status and participate in the thought and judgments which decide what is best to be retained, what best to be given up, what to extend or expand according to the financial and other resources of the family. It is said that "the faults of men have their deepest origin in the home." Does this not apply to virtues also? No experience could be more enlightening to the high-school daughter of the family than to plan the clothing for the entire family. Her special stewardship contribution to the group might be the responsibility of taking inventory of all clothing on hand, making estimates of necessary expenditures for each member of the family and reporting her findings to the family council for discussions and decisions. She might be assigned the responsibility of purchasing the clothing within the budget as determined by the family. Wisely guided, the experience is an opportunity for the individual to see her relationship to the group, to change selfishness into service. Intelligent guidance will help her also to understand that home activities and expenditures have a wider relationship than immediate problems of the family, that community and national conditions are interdependent with the home. For instance, a certain town in Utah, typical of the rural village, has a population of about 4,000. It is estimated that the average annual income per family in this town does not exceed $1,200. An approximate budget percentage for clothing expenditures on so small an income could not possibly exceed 20% of the total without detrimental curtailment of other needs. Twenty per cent of $1,200 is $240, the total amount which may be spent for clothing for the entire family, or $48 each if the family consists of five members. The inconsistency of one family member spending $24 for silk hose in one year is evident. Even if the mother is willing to be self-sacrificing and give her share for daughter's pleasure, and small sister releases her share by wearing made-overs, three times $48 will not buy coats at $70, gowns at $40, hose at $20, shoes at $10, and a supply of novelty accessories such as adolescent girls are demanding in "social eligibility." Could the family as a group be taught to appreciate the fact that 75% of our entire American families are compelled to live FAMILY BUDGETS 363 on an annual income of less than $1,200? Has any girl the moral right, no matter how legitimately large her own purse may be, to flaunt personal finery among her community associates and cause envy and strained competition and disagreeable chafings in the homes of average finances? Can the family as a group be taught to appreciate the fact that 75% of our entire American families are compelled to live on an annual income of less than $1,200; that if the total $60,000,000,000 annual income of the United States could be redistributed equally among the 120,000,000 population no one family would have more than $2,500.00 as a yearly income; that any family having an income of this amount or above has a democratic call to look into the distresses of the masses and aid in constructive re-adjustments? Each phase of the family budget offers similar experiences for each member of the family with varying activities according to age and ability, but always with the sense of accountability of the family group. Even the tiny three year old may be taught to participate in the family council if only to the extent of seeing sister write in his column on the account sheet the price paid for his little shoes and to show him that the milk column in the food account includes the quantity which is his share to make him big and strong. A budget is commonly thought to be a system of percentage for expenditures predetermined by some remote authority and in some ideal way applicable to all incomes. In a general way the average cost of adequate food, shelter, clothing, etc., for individual or family existence may be estimated in dollars and cents. The war time thrift series gives a ratio in simple budget divisions for the expenditure of one dollar, one hundred, or one thousand dollars as follows: 5 tenths for food. 2 tenths for shelter. 1 tenth for clothing. 1 tenth for operating expenses. 1 tenth for saving and advancement. An economic law operates, however, to this effect: the smaller the income the larger is the proportion used for food and other physical necessities; the larger the income the smaller the proportions needed for physical necessities. Most of our budget estimates are made from comparative studies of group types such as the laboring class and professional (teaching) class. Very little investigation has been made of standards and cost of living for rural or farm families. Recent studies (1923-24) in Ohio show that the cost of food, rent and fuel for family consumption on the farm is about one half the city cost, the total average per family being $578.59 at country value while 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the same material in the same quantity averages $1,203.97 at city value.: If this is generally true, then the average farm family has the advantage of the use of a larger proportion of their income for comfort and advancement than the average city family. No statistical data is available concerning farm living costs in Utah, but it is safe to say that Utah would not suffer in comparison with Ohio. With the difference in the cost of necessities the budget percentages based on urban conditions are even less applicable to farm living than has been supposed. But the family budget cannot be arbitrarily estimated in percentages. It is really a very intimate family affair and can be determined only by the family itself, for in the end it is an expression of the intelligence, the ambitions, and the ideals of the group and a record of their co-operative achievements. That it takes a $50,000 woman to rear a family worthily om a $500 income is a statement full of meaning. Adequate living means the application of the laws of physical, mental and moral development —the intelligent use of information concerning food, shelter, clothing, cleanliness, recreation, rest and all that pertains to physical welfare, the appreciation of intellectual advancement which brings balanced mental attitudes and leads to moral poise and spiritual expression. The family budget is a visualized plan by which all of these may function through the routine of family activities. Complete understanding, agreement in purposes, and unity in action, through frequent counseling, are keys to a satisfying home life. The greatest difficulty in establishing a family council in the average home is the embarrassing struggle it causes parents in loosening up age-old customs of autocratic control and in breaking through self-protective aloofness which prohibits free, frank discussions of problems as they really are with the family as a whole. One conscientious, forward-looking father confessed that in making investigations preparatory to family adjustments which were necessary to the security of their happiness he found his greatest struggle in the "de-throning of Dad." The conviction grew upon him that abdication was a possible solution, so he courageously proceeded to strip himself of autocratic rule and to seek sympathetic understanding in the family group. "Each step from the throne," said he, "brings me nearer the hearts of my family and we are learning to pull together." Thus co-operative achievement builds democratic character. It opens the doors to understanding and confidence, loyalty, fairness and tolerance, honesty and dependability, sympathy and service, and it operates just as well on an income of $1,000 a year on the farm as on $10,000 a year in the city—perhaps better.
The Editor Abroad Alice L. Reynolds
SOMETHING MORE ABOUT FRANCE AND SOMETHING ABOUT ITALY
We told you at our last writing something of the war torn sections of France at Chateau-Thierry and the country in and near Rheims. In parts the country is being rebuilt, very rapidly, greatly to the advantage of those who shall inhabit the new homes and the new business houses; for they must of necessity be more comfortable as they will, in many instances, be more commodious and more modern. Still, as we write, one fact bears upon us with tremendous force; we know that nothing can bring the dead to life again, also that no amount of effort, sacrifice or expenditure of money can restore the poor, disfigured, unsightly creature who sells post cards at the place of armistice; nor the poor Italian with one arm and a bullet hole in his face, who this very morning helped us in the dim light to discover the famous Dante of Giotto, among the frescoes of the National Museum in Florence. These men as long as life shall last must be objects of commiseration and pity. We told you at our last writing that we are inclined to think that the French have selected the most effective place for the burial of their Unknown Soldier, at the same time admitting that we did not know where the Italians had placed their honored dead. Since that time we have seen the grave of Italy's Unknown Soldier; he sleeps in front of the beautiful white carrara marble monument, reared to the memory of Victor Emanuel and situated at the end of the Capitoline hill. This statue is said to be the most imposing equestrian statue in existence; it occupies a most telling site. When we were in Rome, in 1906, the guide told our party that modern Rome was building a monument that would be as magnificent as were the monuments of ancient Rome. We wish to say that the guide's remark was no extravagant boast, for in this memorial to Victor Emanuel II, the city of Rome has a monument worthy of standing at the side of the monuments of the ancient Empire. Nevertheless, what we said in our last article we feel is true, for while Italy has chosen the best place in the nation to do honor to her dead, the place where the Unknown Soldier in France reposes is being looked upon with reverent eyes, all day, and often far into the night. An English newspaper in speaking of the number of people who spend their Easter holidays in France wrote: "Of the throng of British tourists thousands
366 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
during the day gazed with respectful interest at the flame of remembrance on the grave of the Unknown Soldier, beneath the Arc de Triumphe." Happily we are to pass from this subject to another phase of French life; for France, said a writer, during the Christmas holidays is a land favored of the Gods. In the south, at this season the flowers bloom and the date palm keeps stately watch over a land of sunshine; while for those who love the rigors of winter the French Alps supply all conditions that make winter sports both courageous and attractive. But we shall not make more than passing mention of the winter sports of the French Alps; our purpose is to write about the land of sunshine known as the French Riviera. At home you have just passed through the bright and balmy days of April and May; yet the air is not more balmy, nor the days brighter, nor the flowers lovelier in April and May, at home, than they are in the French Riviera in January, February, and March. This is assuming, of course, that the spring at home is bright and warm. In this place, for miles, commodious and beautiful hotels, almost countless, skirt the Mediterranean. World cruises are very popular at the present time. It is the practice of many of these cruising ships to drop anchor in the harbor just off Monte-Carlo. The passengers come on shore for a number of hours and, through the use of a motor car, see something of the country. Monte-Carlo has a lovely location; the trees
THE EDITOR ABROAD 367
and flowers about it are very beautiful. Its name to be sure always suggests its gambling Casino, where many fortunes have been lost and many lives wrecked. Yet there is much more in Monte-Carlo than the Casino, which at once suggests the poet who wrote; "Where every prospect pleases, and only man is vile." Mr. H. H. Powers, writing on September 4, 1924, said, "The great Casino at Monte-Carlo is to the writer the most depressing place on earth. Here princesses have gambled away whole estates in a night, and profligates without number have gone penniless to suicide." It is whispered that there is a growing sentiment in favor of closing the Casino. Let us hope that those who wish it closed may in time realize what they desire, for at present it is a blot on our Christian civilization. The French Riviera is noted for the fashionable people who seek it as a winter resort, and who use the promenade to display their fine clothing. Many fashion magazines carry cuts of clothing worn on the Riviera. Not unfrequently a new style of dress, of coat or hat is first worn there. White is a popular color, you see people wearing elegant white coats, furs and gloves, over them they hold a parasol to shut out the bright sun. Many people come year after year to this place to spend part of the winter months. Cannes was the favorite resort of King Edward VII of England. In appreciation of this fact, one finds his statue on the grand promenade looking out towards the sea. This season conspicuous notice was given, in the papers, of the fact that Henry Ford had reserved one floor of a fashionable hotel at Nice, for his visit. The delightful thing to do in this much favored land is to take long walks about in an effort to discover how lavish nature has been in the bestowal of her gifts. Or if, perchance, one may have the use of an automobile then everything is in one's hands, for one may ride far and near in many directions always through interesting and lovely country. We shall ask our readers to follow us on three drives. First of all, we would emphasize that the sea is usually very blue. We might easily believe the term aqua-marine, as applied to a choice blue stone, was coined at the side of the Mediterranean. Our first ride is along the Grande Corniche road, built by Napoleon I. We shall start at a point on the Promenade des Anglais, which translated means the promenade of the English, and, with the sea on our left and a line of very fine hotels to our right, proceed on our way. On we go; there are cliffs above us and below us, all terraced, where the grape vines and the olive tree flourish. At varied intervals we pass lovely villas, that contrast admirably with the grey-green of the olive trees; for these villas are very fre-
368 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
quently adorned with clambering vines whose blossoms burst forth into rich orange clusters, and sometimes equally rich purple clusters. Sometimes in the midst of all this color one sees in the garden below bunches of cala lilies, that are white and shapely. On our way we passed the ruins of a Roman tower, finally coming to a point that gives us a commanding view of the harbor of Monte-Carlo. As we looked out we observed that the steam ship Mauritania had dropped anchor in the bay. She was on a cruise and her passengers were landing to get a glimpse of Monte-Carlo and the Riviera before continuing their journey. On we drove through this land of blue sky and blue sea and flowers, reaching the city of Mentone at noon. The restaurant had large windows, built with an idea of taking in as much of the ocean front as possible. After luncheon Miss Elliott and I strolled down the wellkept path only to discover that the sights of Mentone were in harmony with those found on the rest of the drive, for at our right was the sea; and, at our left, hotels in whose blossomed gardens very showy flowers grew. Resuming our drive we reached Pont St. Louis, which place marks the Italian frontier. At this place the tourists have a jolly, playful time. A woman sat in a square place cut in the wall; she was evidently enjoying the thought that her head was in France and her feet in Italy. Here many tourists write cards and mail them on the Italian side, much to the consternation of relatives and friends who were not aware that they purposed visiting Italy. The booths too, are
THE EDITOR ABROAD 369
interesting, for on one side one notes the familiar wares of France, while a yard away the cameo and Italian pearl are displayed. A walk of a few steps from the French border brings one in contact with the Italian officer who demands a passport. We came home by way of the lower Corniche road, which, like the upper Corniche, offered much of scenic interest and beauty. The second day Miss Elliott and I had a drive along the banks of the river Var. We began at precisely the same place, but soon discovered that we were motoring through lovely canyon gorges, such as we are familiar with at home. Above we saw the ruins of an old Roman fortification set high upon the hill. We were driving by a stream of clear water when suddenly we discovered a waterfall tumbling from a height far above us and splashing and crashing as falls are wont to do. The water of this river and of the many falls about it, for we counted six minor falls in the vicinity, is in sharp contrast, so far as the color tone is concerned to the dull tone of the Seine in Paris, and the green and yellow of the Arno and Tiber in Italy. This main cascade is called the Cascade de Courmes; of itself it is sufficient to make the second day memorable. Finally we reached a point in the mountains called Gourdon, which is 2,200 feet above sea level, our starting place. From this point a panorama of practically the entire drive lay before us. The path over which we had come lay like a chalk mark winding about in a zig-zag fashion. We had driven through the valley of the Var passing through the gorges of the famous Loup. On our return, we visited Grasse, where some of the best of French perfumes are made. It was in the midst of a flower fete, consequently the houses were decorated with flowers and bunches of oranges. It is to this place in the mountains that growers bring their flowers to be converted into costly perfumes. Some cities make a specialty of growing violets, others, the jasamine, for which 30 francs per pound is sometimes paid. The May rose is the best of all the roses used in making perfumes. This is a rose that resembles the wild rose. The perfume made from it brings the highest market value. We went through the factory where the process involved in the manufacture of the article was explained to us. Since the war gasoline has been used extensively. The flowers are placed in gasoline which extracts the perfume; then the gasoline and water which are in the flower are evaporated and the perfume is left. By this new process nine men can handle three tons of flowers each day. The old process involves placing the flower in tallow. The tallow extracts the perfume from the flower, later it is placed in alcohol which takes the scent out of the tallow. Then the alcohol is evaporated and the perfume is left. This latter process required 250 women a day
370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to handle but one half ton of flowers, but the perfume is finer for it possesses a much more delicate odor. To make a very choice perfume the scent from many choice flowers is combined. Perfume is better for being kept for some time. Grasse is high up, so the descent was most delightful. On our third drive we started from the same place and visited the Golden Corniche, a road constructed in 1904, under the supervision of the French Touring Club. This highway is lined by a shrub that has a brilliant yellow blossom, that runs for miles along its course, hence its name the Golden Corniche. Two places of historic interest should be mentioned in connection with this road, first, Golfe Juan. Where Napoleon Bonaparte disembarked on March 1, 1815, after his escape from the island of Elba, and the "Forum Juli," the ruins of a Roman forum built in the time
THE EDITOR ABROAD 371
of Julius Caesar. Arriving finally at Cannes, we were in another well known city of the French Riviera, facing the water front. All through these drives we found the trees most attractive; on the lowland terraces, the palm and the olive trees are everywhere present, while scattered along the way is the stately cypress, sometimes in groves and sometimes placed along the road like sentinels on guard; and on the mountain top the cedar grows—a beautiful proud cedar, that looks aloft, and spreads its umbrellalike top as if it would defy the centuries. And now for the story of our drive along the Italian coast line. Our party had been augmented by the coming of Miss Anna Ollerton and Miss Amy Martain. Over night we stayed at Sorrento, an Italian city built on rocky ledges that jut up out of the sea. This is the city where the American novelist, Francis M. Crawford, had his home and where he wrote many of his novels. Our party approached Sorrento from the sea, as we had been visiting Capri during the day. In order to reach Sorrento we were obliged to take a small row boat for the last part of our journey, and after landing take an elevator that placed us in our hotel on top of the rocky ledge. Our rooms gave us the best possible view of the Bay of Naples. In the morning a rich reward was ours, for the clouds on the previous days had all cleared away, and there stood Vesuvius puffing her smoke into a clear sky whose trail of smoke, which fell in a horizontal line, could be traced distinctly as far as the eye could see. This column of white, black smoke, with some tinges of pink, made in all probability by the rising sun, threw its trail across a clear blue sky above a sea of blue. After breakfast which we ate before seven, we started on what is known as the famous Sorrento Amalfi drive. We left the hotel at Sorrento in a bower of lovely flowers with the wisteria and the orange blossom everywhere in evidence. Soon we were on a well made road with the sea's expanse glistening before us, and the mountains jutting behind us. Finally we were driving through country unlike anything we had seen along the French coast line, for on each side a hilly plain stretched, covered with fruit trees of many varieties, with the olive tree always in evidence. Nestled among these fruit trees are the homes and churches of the inhabitants. We were passing through the Neapolitan Alps our guide told us. Such a stretch of country seemed to justify, fully, what has been written about the population of Italy in the days of the Roman Empire. Gradually we descended into the valley where we found ourselves at the very gates of Pompeii—that Greek-Roman City, destroyed by the eruptions of Vesuvius in 79 A. D.—a voice from the dust which has been such a revelation of the past.
Of Interest To Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart
What makes sauces and puddings, that have been thickened and cooked, curdle when flavored with lemon juice and rind? There is a right and wrong way to do everything, but one would think there could only be one way to grate a lemon, but such is not the case. Many cases of curdled sauces flavored with lemon are due to the fact that the lemon has not been grated properly. The oil of the lemon, which is the essential for flavoring, is all in the yellow portion of the rind; the white underneath is bitter, and may also cause curdling when used with cream or milk. The grating should begin at the end of the lemon and as small a surface of the grater used as possible. This prevents waste. The lemon should be constantly turned, the same as in paring an apple and only the yellow of the rind should be used.
What is the difference between jam and conserve? Jam is made from the crushed fruits and sugar, and cooked to a jelly-like consistency. Usually berries and small fruits are used. Conserves are made like jams, but they always contain a mixture of fruits and usually raisins and nuts. Often lemon or orange juice and a little grated rind are used for flavor. Nuts are not added until just before the cooking is finished. The amount of sugar used depends upon the acidity of the fruit and personal taste. Three-fourths as much sugar as fruit is the general rule. Equal parts make a richer product but less delicate in flavor. The kind of fruit used will help to decide the amount of sugar. It may be riper and less perfect than that used for canning, but the choicer the fruit, the better the result. The quicker the jam is cooked, without burning, the more delicate the flavor and larger the amount of finished product. Some experts say that 222 degrees is the proper temperature. If you haven't a thermometer drop a little of the juice on a cold plate and cool quickly to test the consistency. Almost any berry or fruit will make good jam by itself, but there are many combinations and variations that are very good. These few will suggest many others to you: Strawberries and pineapple, pineapple and raspberries or cherries, strawberries and cherries, gooseberries and pineapple, raspberries and gooseberries, loganberries and currants (red English). Rhubarb in combination with any fruit is good especially if it is lacking in acid. It helps to increase quantity at a considerable lessening in cost of the final product. Gooseberries, currants, cher-
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 373
ries and plums make good jam or relishes for meat. Do not let jam or any fruit or jelly stand too long after cooling before sealing as bacteria and dust gather and cause mold. If the wax for sealing is piping hot it will sterilize the surface that has been exposed.
Having to do for a large family and to live very economically, I found these suggestions helpful when fruit is scarce: Gather prickly pears by means of a long-tined fork and a sharp knife. Hold the pear with the fork while you cut it from the stem with the knife. Then with the fork hold the pear over a blazing fire until all the thorns or prickles are burned off. Remove the skins and cook. Bottle the juice from which can be made pudding sauces or pies. From the fleshy part when separated from the seeds, make preserves. Also when I can not get lemons I use plum juice with just a bit of lemon extract, to make lemon pie. The result is very good—Mrs. B. C., Redrock, New Mexico.
If you wish to keep brown sugar moist remove it from the sack when you buy it and put it into glass fruit jars. Put on the rubber and seal until ready for use. I have kept it as long as two years this way. I live twenty miles from town so I have to buy in large quantities and it saves time and money. It is just as nice as when first bought—Mrs. J. J. L., Alberta, Canada.
These suggestions are short but may save time: Bottles with small necks are usually hard to wash, even with a brush. Use a little clean, sharp sand with just enough water to make it move easily. Fine coarse salt, may be used the same. Note the results. Also when cooking fish that is cut through the back, place in the hot fat with the skin side up, brown and turn. This will keep the fish from falling apart—Mrs. E. S., Hyrum, Utah.
I live twenty miles from a doctor and have to act quickly in an emergency. This may help others situated likewise. This little remedy for burns has proved very beneficial: Use lime water and linseed oil freely. Beat the whites of eggs to a froth and apply as quickly as possible. Keep it refreshed, and the pain is greatly relieved. With the linseed oil and lime water we have cured burns without leaving a scar—Mrs. P. W., Crystal, Idaho.
A teaspoonful of vinegar added to boiled frosting will keep it from breaking when cut; it also adds to the flavor, as do a few cloves when added to vegetable soup. To save salt and time, after making ice cream, empty the ice into a sack and let the ice melt. Much salt will remain in the sack to be used again.—Mrs. L. I., Vernal, Utah.
Relief Society Annual Report 1924 Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT
CASH RECEIPTS Balance on hand January 1, 1924: Charity Fund....................$ 34,367.63 General Fund.................... 95,579.89 Wheat Fund.................... 45,492.03
Total Balance............... $175,439.55
Donations received, During 1924: Charity Fund................... 88,053.31 General Fund.................. 113,371.99 Annual Membership Dues for General Board................. 10,233.96 Annual Dues for Stake Boards... 10,161.13 Received for Wheat Sold........ 3,259.90 Other Receipts................ 70,249.45
Total Donations.............. 295,329.74
Total Balances on Hand and Receipts..................... $470,769.29
CASH DISBURSEMENTS Paid for Charitable Purposes..... 100,453.51 Paid for General Purposes........ 118,878.61 Wheat Fund Sent to Presiding Bishop's Office............... 28,230.18 Paid Membership Dues to General Board........................ 11,243.57 Paid Dues to Stake Boards....... 11,968.39 Paid for Other Purposes......... 44,377.87
Total Disbursements.......... 315,152.13
Balance on Hand Dec, 31, 1924: Charity Fund.................. 32,645.12 General Fund.................. 101,616.09 Wheat Fund................... 21,357.95
Total Balance on Hand....... 155,619.16
Total Disbursements and Balances on Hand............. $470,771.29
RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 375
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
ASSETS Balance on Hand December 31, 1924: All Funds.....................$155,635.16 Wheat Trust Fund at Presiding Bishop's Office............... 390,586.89 Other Invested Funds............ 67,713.75 Value of Furniture and Fixtures.. 36,040.28 Other Assets.................. 23,613.44
Total Assets................ $673,589.52
LIABILITIES Indebtedness.................. 2,315.79 Balance Net Assets............. 671,273.73
Total Liabilities and Net Assets...................... $673,589.52
STATISTICS
MEMBERSHIP January 1, 1924: Executive and Special Officers.... 9,205 Visiting Teachers............... 18,327 Members....................... 29,259
Total Enrolled.............. 56,791
Admitted to Membership During 1924......................... 9,808
Total Membership During Year.. 66,599
December 31, 1924: Executive and Special Officers... 9,632 Visiting Teachers.............. 18,766 Members....................... 30,874
Total or Present Membership 59,272
Removed or Resigned............ 6,697 Died.......................... 630
Total Membership During Year 66,599
The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members.......................... 18 Stake Officers and Board Members........................... 1,049
Number of Meetings Held........................ 53,119 Average Attendance at Meetings................. 20,665 Number of Relief Society Organizations......... 1,486 Number of L. D. S. Families in Stakes.......... 93,993 Number of L. D. S. Women, Non-Members, Eligible 23,605 Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken....... 23,478 Number of Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Magazine....................... 5,360
376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ACTIVITIES Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Relief Society Officers.................... 5,144 Number Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers During Year...................... 592,559 Days Spent with the Sick................... 52,445 Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound...... 366,155 Number Families Helped.................... 12,281 Bodies Prepared for Burial................. 2,523 Number Days Spent in Temple Work........... 114,160
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS 1922—1923—1924
                            1922      1923      1924
Paid for charitable purposes....$ 93,289.06 $ 97,846.31 $100,453.51 Total or present membership.... 53,412 55,973 59,272 No. Of Relief Society Organizations. 1,284 1,356 1,486 No. Of Relief Society Magazines taken.......................... 23,813 23,829 23,478 Days spent with the sick....... 61,174 53,126 52,445 Special visits with sick and homebound 157,107 160,614 366,155 Families helped................ 8,193 10,960 12,281 Number of visits by stake Relief Society Officers to wards...... 5,361 5,027 5,144 Number of visits by Relief Society visiting teachers.............. 495,159 568,667 592,559 Number of days spent in temple work 80,512 96,107 114,160
Distribution of PRESENT MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
STAKES MISSIONS Utah........................32,215 Missions in United States.. 3,025 Idaho.......................9,741 Canadian Mission.......... 114 Arizona....................1,947 Mexican Mission........... 159 Oregon.....................242 Australian Mission........ 17 Canada....................1,204 European Mission.......... 5,402 Mexico....................210 Hawaiian Mission.......... 911 Nevada....................313 New Zealand Mission....... 523 Wyoming...................1,470 Samoan Mission........... 220 Colorado..................408 South African Mission..... 38 California................759 Tahitian Mission......... 235 Tongan Mission........... 119
Total Membership in Stakes 48,509 Total Membership in Missions 10,763
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions..................59,272
Notes From The Field Amy Brown Lyman
Swiss-German Mission
The two Königsberg Relief Society branches have a membership of 110 active members. Even though many are compelled to work ten hours a day to earn a living, they are nevertheless willing to give two hours a week to Relief Society work. These two organizations are particularly successful in enlisting the younger women in the cause, as well as giving enthusiasm to the older members. Even the smaller children lend their efforts in
THE KÖNIGSBERG RELIEF SOCIETY
the knitting of stockings, and are happy in the knowledge that some little needy child will receive the same. The presidents of these organizations state that it is a joy to work in the Relief Society because the members use every effort and talent to build up the work of the organization through caring for the sick, sympathizing with the distressed, and standing by the needy in their trials. By the use of monthly topics the visiting teachers are doing a fine work. They teach that it is more blessed to give than to receive; and so, regardless of the resources of the members, they always have a small donation for the visiting teachers. The teachers also encourage each one visited to submit questions regarding household management and affairs. These questions are answered at the next regular session during the time spent in sewing.
378 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Australian Mission
Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian mission writes: "On February 13, in company with President Hyde and Miss Esther Stanford, my niece who came to Australia with me, I left Sydney for Melbourne, where we held conference. The opportunity was given me to present Relief Society work, and Miss Stanford gave one of the lessons taken from the Relief Society Magazine, showing how such a lesson should be presented. We took the work up in this way because the organizations here had not been following closely the lessons given in the Magazine and we felt that by a proper presentation of such lessons, the value of them would be better appreciated, and this proved to be true. Many expressions of commendation were given by the sisters who were present at the conference. Mrs. Hannah Griggs is president of the organization at Melbourne.
"On the following Sunday we held conference in Hobart, Tasmania, where the new chapel was dedicated by President Hyde and conference was held with the Saints. On Tuesday night following, the Relief Society met with about forty women, a number being non-members. The same instructions and lessons were given there. This Society is presided over by Mrs. Julia Nash and has been organized for about three years. Our explanations of the Relief Society work and the value of the lessons were very kindly accepted in this conference and we feel sure that good will result in meeting with the sisters.
"We went from Hobart to Adelaide, in South Australia, and held conference with the Saints on Sunday, March 1, and on Monday night about thirty of the sisters met together and received instructions in Relief Society work. The Adelaide Society is a very active organization, presided over by Mrs. Alva Leonard. They have been active in gathering funds for their organization and have recently bought a piano for the church there, which has been much appreciated by the elders and Saints. The branch in Adelaide was organized about two years ago; since then they have been very helpful to the president of the conference and their efforts are appreciated very much by him."
Central States Mission
The Independence, Missouri, Relief Society which has enrolled forty members, is in a flourishing condition at the end of a winter which has made many demands upon its resources. A majority of the members attend the meetings regularly and all are active in the various phases of Relief Society work. March 17 was a most enjoyable day for the members when the 83rd anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was commemorated. The members met in the amusement hall of the church
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 379
and spent the forenoon in quilting. At noon a delicious luncheon was served to more than eighty persons. A general color scheme of green and white was carried out in the attractive decorations, the traditional shamrock being used as favors. The employees of Zion's Printing & Publishing Company were numbered among the guests, as were also many who are non-members. At the completion of the last course of the luncheon and while the guests were still seated at the tables, an interesting program was given which was characterized by the spirit of the Relief Society work and by old Irish ballads appropriate to the day. On the 28th and 29th of March, during the quarterly conference held at Independence, the Relief Society members served a regular homecooked dinner on both days. Approximately three hundred and fifty people were accommodated during that time. The net receipts added to the treasury amounted to $44.30.
North Sanpete Stake
At the stake quarterly conference held March 21 and 22, the Relief Society held two sessions which were very instructive. Two excellent lectures were given on the subjects of "Cooperation," and "Goitre." Departmental work was conducted during the afternoon session. There were over two hundred members present at the morning session from the three organizations: Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary, and one hundred fifty present in the afternoon.
Kolob Stake
Anniversary Day was observed as a stake day, all the wards meeting at the Second ward Chapel, Tuesday, March 17. The outstanding number on the program was a pageant representing the organization of the Relief Society, which was under the direction of Counselor Eva M. Crandall. Catherine B. Salisbury was the reader and all those taking part were members of the Relief Society. The pageant was followed by a special feature from each ward of the stake. The opening musical numbers were by the Relief Society chorus. Invocation was offered by E. M. Snow of the stake presidency, after which a speech of welcome was given by the stake president, Mrs. Hannah B. Mendenhall, followed by a talk by President J. F. Bringhurst. At the close of the program refreshments were served to nearly five hundred people. By request, the same program was given at the opera house the following Friday evening when a small admission charge was made and the proceeds turned over to the community welfare department of the Kolob stake Relief Society.
Cache Stake
The Relief Society of the Fifth ward of Cache stake recently
380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
held a bazaar. The sum raised from this affair was $328.67. A few days later the proceeds of the bazaar were ready to be turned over to the bishop of the ward, to be used in redecorating the Relief Society room, and other class rooms in the ward meeting house. The success of the undertaking was due to the splendid organization, and the loyal work of the women of the Relief Society, and the hearty support of the people who patronized the bazaar. Following is a list of some of the articles contributed by Relief Society women: home-made quilts; crocheted, braided and woven rugs; numerous articles of new clothing; fancy work; old clothing to be remodeled; home-made cakes; home-made candy, and other refreshments. The fish pond arranged for by the Relief Society proved to be an exciting feature and a rich source of revenue. The bazaar was one of the most successful affairs ever given in the ward and demonstrates what may be done by a group working for a common purpose. In the evening a play was given by the Relief Society women. This was followed by a dance in the ward recreation hall, which was attended by about four hundred people. Shortly after the bazaar, it was decided that a new carpet was needed for the Relief Society room. A call was made for the women of the ward Relief Society to meet and bring rags to be made into a new rag carpet. This call met with a hearty response, fifty-six women answering. These members met in the recreation hall and held an old-fashioned rag bee. One hundred twelve pounds of rags were cut and sewed and twenty pounds of sewed rags were sent in by members who were unable to be present. A most successful and enjoyable day was spent and the members have the satisfaction of knowing that in one day material for sixty-five yards of carpet was assembled, prepared and sent to the weaver.
Wasatch Stake
Wasatch stake has carried on a number of activities during the past year, which have been very helpful to the various communities. Prizes were offered by the Relief Society at the holiday season for the best Christmas poem and the best Christmas story. On Mother's Day each year a beautiful gold medal is given by the Relief Society to the high school student writing the best essay on the subject of "Mother." During the summer months last year an interesting feature was the preparation of a special program by each ward. After the programs were given in the home ward, they were rotated so that each ward had the benefit of them all. The cooperative work between the stake Relief Society and the Agricultural College has been very successful. In connection with the Home Nursing work, 197 health cabinets have been established in that many homes, the cabinets containing all sorts of
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 381
emergency and first aid articles. Two hundred homes were reached in connection with the instructions on infant feeding. General posture and the care of feet received attention. One hundred forty women tried out the regime, and the merchants in the various communities were asked by the women to put in proper shoes and to pay more attention to proper fitting of shoes. Four demonstrations were given on the care of burns and bruises. Demonstrations in sewing, millinery, cleaning, dyeing and pressing clothes were given on work and business meeting days and on special days, with no interference whatever with the regular work. In the dressmaking course, 1,352 patterns were cut, 86 suits were cleaned and pressed, 40 hats were made at a cost of $40.75. If bought at a shop these hats would have cost $92.65.
The Sabbath Sun Serenely Falls
The Sabbath sun serenely falls Adown the ruddy west And evening, quiet evening, calls The dreamy world to rest.
And now we meet from many ways— Our worship all our care— To give our lips to songs of praise, Our thankful hearts to prayer.
With spirits bowed and penitent Around the board we meet, Renewed in faith and covenant, To hold communion sweet.
Here Jesus, as of old, imparts His precepts high and true, And, kindled in our grateful hearts, His spirit burns anew.
—Theodore E. Curtis.
Guide Lessons for September
LESSON I (First Week in September)
Theology and Testimony
THE ABRAHAMIC DISPENSATION
PART II—ISAAC
A. Some Leading Events.
1. The Birth of Isaac. It was in fulfilment of a prophecy made by a messenger from God, a prediction that was so out of harmony with the ordinary experiences of humanity that its fulfilment seemed almost ridiculous. (See Genesis 18:12.)
The fore-ordination of Isaac, known to God, was indirectly revealed to the parents of Isaac by the prophetic declaration of his birth, and in this case prophecy filled its double function, proving to mortals that there is a God, a being whose knowledge exceeds that of mortals and whose power is super-human and whose interest in human affairs is constant.
2. Isaac on the Altar. Is it consistently thinkable that Isaac was kept in ignorance of who he was—a child of promise; that he was not told of what his mission was, as an heir to the priesthood, the elect of God to carry on the progressive fulfilment of the promises made to his father? Can we believe that Isaac was not taught the gospel plan of salvation and exaltation, the culminating part of which was reached by the Savior through becoming the sacrifice of all sacrifices? Had not Abraham read the command given to Adam, "Teach these things freely to your children?" Did Isaac not have the Christ-life pictured to him by his parents, and was not the Savior the boy's highest ideal of heroism? In this event, was Isaac deprived of a free-agency part in this psychological sacrifice, or did he have the choice between flight and facing the ordeal? Isaac was "bound" but was not the binding of his body preceded and accompanied by the inner freedom of willingness?
3. The Eternal Union of Isaac and Rebekah. Divine Guidance—Abraham was inspired to send back to the land of his nativity for a mother for the children of
LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 383
his son of promise. Isaac's wife was to be an elect lady of select blood. The messenger sent to make the selection was to be left free from all influences except that of inspiration. Abraham not only put him under oath, but he promised him the guiding presence of an angel from God. (See Gen. 24:1-8.) The prediction of Abraham was fulfilled. Rebekah, the good, kind, fair, reverential Rebekah, was discovered and found willing to leave her parental home for the tent where Isaac dwelt. (See Gen. 24:16, 27, 50, 55-58.) What time may have elapsed between the first meeting of Isaac and Rebekah and their marriage is not specified, but their courtship seems to have been a case of "love at first sight." A love that had in it the consciousness of the approval of parents, God, and nature, a love that lasted. (See Gen. 24:67.) This was an event that bears the unmistakable mark of God's approval of careful selection in marriage. It is a striking example of the application of the laws of God in marriage.
4. The Posterity of Isaac and Rebekah.
a. Isaac's appeal to the Lord—Twenty years of married life brought to this couple no children. The Lord had renewed to Isaac the promises made to Abraham thus indicating again that Isaac was to be the chief line of descent for the posterity of the father of the faithful. But how, when, where, this promise was to be fulfilled became a serious question to Isaac. He appealed to God and his entreaty was answered. (Gen. 25:21.)
b. Rebekah's Inquiry of the Lord—To her question, "Why am I thus?" Rebekah received an answer from the Lord that was both explanatory and prophetic, and her after life indicates her loyalty to the accomplishment of the will of the Lord as revealed to her.
c. The Birthright and Blessing Episode—It matters little to us just what rights went with birthright or what privileges went with the blessing. The points of chief value are the facts that both birthright and blessing were choice inheritances which were subject to forfeiture by unworthiness. It goes without saying that one who despises a gift is unworthy of the gift, and Esau "despised his birthright." (Gen. 25:34.) He was glad to sell it for a single meal. That he expressed himself physically famish-
384 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ing was of little consequence when compared with his spiritual imbecility. It was a blessing so closely related to the birthright, and Jacob bought it, was no ordinary transaction; it was ratified by a solemn oath. It was a transaction to which God was made a witness, a solemn covenant of relinquishment, on the part of Esau, and the taking of responsibility on the part of Jacob. It was a part of the fulfilment of the divine prediction made to Rebekah. It was not simply a blessing that Esau expected but it was the blessing so closely related to the birthright, that selling of the latter worked a forfeiture of the right to the former. Rebekah took the responsibility of seeing to it, in her own way, that the blessing went with the birthright. The outcome of the event was a triple lesson: 1 That disregard for a blessing is evidence of unworthiness of a blessing. 2. That unworthiness ends in disappointment. 3. That the unconditional promises of the Lord cannot fail of complete fulfilment.
Questions and Problems:
1. Discuss the statement, "Isaac took a willing part in the great test of his father Abraham."
2. Show that Rebekah was an elect lady. Of select ancestry.
3. Wherein does the life of Rebekah give evidence that woman is entitled to direct communication with the Lord?
4. From the highest judgment of what is right, (i. e., doing the greatest good to the greatest number), to which would you have given the blessing, Jacob or Esau?
5. What is an unconditional prophecy or promise? Give illustrations of conditional prophecies.
LESSON II (Second Week in September)
Work and Business
LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 385
LESSON III (Third Week in September)
Literature
Eugene Field
It will be three years on October 28, 1925, since a monument was unveiled to Eugene Field, in Lincoln Park, Chicago. This monument was paid for chiefly by the children of the city of Chicago. It consists of a brooding angel hovering over two sleeping children, sprinkling the sand of dreams into their eyes. On the base are carved the first four lines of "Wynken, Blynken, and Nod." On the other side of the sleeping children are the first four lines of "The Sugar Plum Tree." "Have you ever heard of the Sugar Plum Tree? *Tis a marvel of great renoun,. It blooms on the shore of the Lollipop Sea, In the garden of Shut Eye Town." Eugene Field was born in 1850 in Chicago and died there in 1895. He once satarized himself as the Dante of Chicago, with a roll of sausages about his head. He was prankish, loved very much to get a joke on one of his friends. In the "Americanization of Edward Bok," Mr. Bok tells us how miserable his friend Eugene Field made him and what great embarrassment he caused him by one of his jokes, and then how he extended the most cordial entertainment to him when he visited Chicago. Yet Field was very much more than prankish, he had a very serious side. His last public appearance consisted of a reading to help a destitute woman. He did not know the person for whom he was making the effort, a great one for him, at that particular time, in his failing health, but it was a free-will offering. We have talked of Riley as the children's poet. Eugene Field shares honors with both Longfellow and Riley as children's poet. Such poems as "Just 'Fore Christmas," "Swing High and Swing Low," "Seeing Things,' are very well known by the children all over America. A poem that may remind some of our mothers of their experience with their children and not unlikely with their grand-children, is "The Little Peach,' so we include it in the lesson. THE LITTLE PEACH A little peach in the orchard grew,— A little peach of emerald hue; Warmed by the sun and wet by the dew, It grew. 386 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE One day passing that orchard through, That little peach dawned on the view Of Johnny Jones and his sister Sue— Them two. Up at that peach a club they threw— Down from the stem on which it grew Fell that peach of emerald hue Mon Dieu. John took a bite and Sue a chew, And then the trouble began to brew,— Trouble the doctor couldn't subdue. For True! Under the turf where the daisies grew They planted John and his sister Sue, And their little souls to the angels flew,— Boo Hoo! Another poem of Fields that I think will appeal to parents is his '"'Father's Letter." I'm going to write a letter to our oldest boy who went Out West last spring to practice law and run for president; Ill tell him all the gossip I guess he'd like to hear, For he hasn't seen the home-folks for going on a year! Most generally it's Martha does the writing, but as she _ Is suffering with a felon, why, the job devolves on me— So, when the supper things are done and put away tonight, I'll draw my boots and shed my coat and settle down to write. I'll tell him crops are looking up, with prospects for big corn, That fooling with the barnyard gate the off ox hurt his horn. * These are the things I'll write him—our boy that's in the west; And I'll tell him how we miss him—his mother and the rest; Why we never have an apple pie that mother doesn't say, He liked it so—I wish that he could have a piece today! I'll tell him we are prospering, and hope he is the same— That we hope he'll have no trouble getting on to wealth and fame; And just before I write "good-by from father and the rest," I'll say that "mother sends her love," and that will please him best, Tor when I went away from home, the weekly news I heard Was nothing to the tenderness I found in that one word— The sacred name of mother— why, even. Now as then, The thought brings back the saintly face, the gracious love again And in my bosom seems to come a peace that is divine, As if an angel spirit communed again with mine; LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 387 And one man's heart is strengthened by the message from above, And earth seems nearer heaven when "Mother sends her love." A heartfelt tribute and one with an element of the universal in it is a poem entitled "Father's Way." Eugene Field was very fond of writing lullabys. In his writings we find a Jewish Lullaby, an Armenian Lullaby, a Sicilian Lullaby, Corsican Lullaby, and Wynken, Blynken and Nod is a Dutch Lullaby. A DUTCH LULLABY Wynken, Blynken, and Nod one night Sailed off in a wooden shoe— Sailed on a river of crystal light, Into a sea of dew. "Where are you going, and what do you wish?" The old man asked the three. "We have come to fish for the herring fish That live in this beautiful sea. Nets of silver and gold have we!" Said Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. The old man laughed and sang a song, As they rocked in the wooden shoe, And the wind that sped them all night long Ruffled the waves of dew. The little stars were the herring fish, "Now cast your nets wherever you wish— Never afeard are we." So cried the stars to the fishermen three; Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. Wynken and Blynken are two little eyes, And Nod is a little head, And the wooden shoes that Pailed the skies Is a wee one's trundle-bed. So shut your eyes while mother sings Of wonderful sights that be, And you shall see the beautiful things As you rock in the misty sea, Where the old shoe rocked the fisherman three: Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. 388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE When his monument was unveiled it was witnessed by two of his grand children, little Miss Jean Field Foster, and Master Robert Eugene Field. The poem, "A Valentine to My Wife" is representative, in a way, of life in the Field home as well as expressive of his devotion to his wife: A VALENTINE TO MY WIFE Accept; dear girl, this little token, And if between the lines you seek, You'll find the love I've often spoken— The love my dying lips shall speak. Our little ones are making merry O'er am'rous ditties rhymed in jest, But in these words, (though awkward—very ) The genuine article's expressed. You are as fair and. Sweet and tender, Dear brown-eyed little sweetheart mine, As when a callow youth and slender I asked to be your Valentine. What though these years of ours be fleeting? What though the years of youth be flown? I'll mock old Tempus with repeating, "T love my love and her alone!" And when I fall before his reaping, And when my stuttering speech is dumb, Think not my love is dead or sleeping, But that it wails for you to come. So take, dear love, this little token, And if there speaks in any line The sentiment I'd fain have spoken, Say, will you kiss your Valentine? "Christmas" is also a poem written for children. It bears the date December 1, 1884. It is evidence, as are others of Eugene Fields' poems, of his deep religious convictions, for Eugene Field was a religious man. CHRISTMAS My little child comes to my knee And tugging pleads that he may climb Into my lap to hear me tell The Christmas tale he loves so well— A tale my mother told to me, Beginning: "Once upon a time." LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 389 It is a tale of skies that rang With angel rhapsodies sublime; Of that great host serene and white, The shepherds saw one winter night; And of the glorious stars that sang An anthem, once upon a time. The story of the hallowed years Tells of the sacrifice sublime Of one who prayed alone and wept While his aweared followers slept— And how his blood and Mary's tears Commingled, once upon a time. And now my darling at my side And echoes of the distant clime Bring the sweet story back to me— Of Bethlehem and Calvary, And of the gentle Christ that died For sinners, once upon a time. The mighty deeds that men have told In pondrous tones or fluent rhyme, Like misty shadows fade away; But this sweet story bides for aye, And, like the stars that sang of old, We sing of "Once upon a time." Eugene Iield's immortality could rest upon one poem, "Little Boy Blue." It is the most exquisite of all of his poems. It is hardly exaggerating the case to say that no other poet has handled this theme in so perfect a manner as has he. If we can know only one of Eugene Fields' poems let that one be "Little Boy Blue." In writing of one of Raphael's Madonnas that is found in the Uffizi gallery, in Florence, Mrs. H. H. Powers says, "There is more than one way of being perfect, but this is perfection, and this is Raphael." We wish to borrow the sentence and apply it to "Little Boy Blue," and say there is more than one way of being perfect, but "Little Boy Blue" is perfect and "Little Boy Blue" is Eugene Field. Of course, it is his masterpiece. LITTLE BOY BLUE The little toy dog is covered with dust, But sturdy and staunch he stands; And the little toy soldier is red with rust, And his musket moulds in his hands. Time was when the little toy dog was new And the soldier was passing fair; And that was the time that our Little Boy Blue Kissed them and put them there. .390 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Now, don't you go till I come," he said, "And don't you make any noise!" So, toddling off to his trundle bed, He dreamt of the pretty toys; And as he was dreaming, an angel song Awakened our Little Boy Blue— Oh! The years are many, the years are long, But the little toy friends are true! Ay, faithful to Little Boy Blue they stand, Each in the same old place— Awaiting the touch of a little hand, The smile of a little face. And they wonder as waiting the long years through In the dust of that little chair, What has become of our little Boy Blue, Since he kissed them and put them there. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Go to the encyclopedia, or some book that will furnish data on the life of Eugene Field, condense it, and give a brief sketch of his life. 2. What specific lines in the poem a "Valentine to My Wife" are evidence of Field's religious convictions in relation to the immortality of the soul. 3. December 1, 1884, is the date given for the writing of Eugene Field's poem called "Christmas." How long had it been written last Christmas? Is it just as good now as when it was written? If you agree that it is, to what do you attribute the fact that it does not grow old or go out of date? 4, If you can find a child or several children in the ward who recite such poems as "Wynken, Blynken and Nod," or "Just 'Fore Christmas," have them come and recite them for the mothers. Don't think you must confine the reading to the poems mentioned, and to others the children of your ward are familiar with. The children will read these poems in a much more attractive way than grown-ups can possibly do. 5. If you can obtain a copy of "The Americanization of Edward Bok" look up the story of the joke Eugene Field played on him; and either read it or tell it to the class. 6. Have some one, not a child, read "Little Boy Blue" to the class. Discuss the poem and see if you can discover why it is so effective. LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 391 LESSON IV (Fourth Week in September ) Social Service RECREATION The humdrum of routine, the exhaustion resulting from incessant work, the strain of facing hourly and daily the perplexing problems of living, have telling effects on the human mechanism. Because exercise, or music, or play can rest the tired muscles or nerves, and restore them to normal functioning, these restorative diversions are rightly called recreation—they "'re-create" the powers that have become exhausted by work and strain. Diversions that over-stimulate the human body, and those that have a deteriorating effect of the health and morale of an individual, cannot be termed, properly, recreation. The need for being wholesomely diverted from the more serious aspects of life, can hardly be overestimated. Psychiatrists advise wholesome, normal "escapes" from the strain and pressure of work and worry. If individuals do not find wholesome outlets for pent-up emotions and overstrained nerves, they will involuntarily seek abnormal outlets, and will perhaps resort to too much day-dreaming which may lead to more serious mental phenomena. A person may also become bitter, too preoccupied with his own struggles, and withdraw from his association with his family and friends, and from the world of "reality" to a morbid sphere of exaggerated troubles, persecution, etc. To keep a sensible outlook and to keep a normal balance, an individual must have in his life some self-expression, some beauty, some joy, and some laughter. What form of activity or expression is suitable recreation depends, of course, on the individual needs and tastes. One person's recreation might be arduous labor to another person. A man who spends his days seated at an office desk, pouring over figures and documents, would hardly select reading as a restoring evening activity. A mail man who spends his days walking, or a carpenter who is physically occupied throughout the day, would, likewise, find little rest or change in a long evening walk or some exercise about the home—splitting wood or caring for a family garden. Besides the daily activities, another factor in determining the form of recreation that an individual should select is his particular tastes. A concert might be an unusual treat to one person, while to another, it might be unspeakably boring. A musical comedy or a picture show or a vaudeville offer to many the complete relaxation and diversion needed, while to others three hours spent at these performances would be near torture. Crossword puzzles offered a new "escape" to thousands during the last year, but there are many disdainful folk who dismissed them with a contemptuous "waste of time." 392 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE What "diverts" one, is not so much a matter of education, training and intellect as of taste. If this were better understood, there would be more respect paid to individual preferences, fewer conflicts in the home circle and among friends, and not so many futile attempts to make friends or families learn to dance, or to play chess, or to hike and enjoy it. In planning recreation, then, for a family, the planner should be careful not to superimpose his own desires and tastes on others. Because parents do not dance, and perhaps their family and friends in their community or native country did not dance, it is not fair to begrudge the young people their evening at the dancing party. If a picnic or an automobile party is planned and a young boy who drives a truck or a car all day wishes to stay home and read or tinker with his car, his preference should be given respect. Perhaps the most serious conflicts in deciding upon the manner of spending leisure come between husband and wife. Their activities during the day are usually entirely different. He is away from home, meeting people, occupied with thoughts foreign from his home and household. His notion of a pleasant evening, perhaps, would be to stay at home, talk with his family, and read the paper or a book. At this point, the wife who has been engrossed with domestic affairs all day, looks longingly at the theatre announcements, or mentions that a friend would like them to call. It often happens that one will be more self-sacrificing than the other, and will quietly set aside his or her wishes repeatedly. Without meaning to be unkind, or inconsiderate, one of the couple may deprive the other of the desired and needed association and outlets, with a resulting domestic discord. Families should consider the wishes and tastes of others, and the members oi the family should be willing to "give and take." The tastes of one should not dominate the entire group. In planning for an unhappy friend or a family whose means are limited, there is a danger of blundering. The kindly friend is prone to expect the recipient of his kindness to enjoy the things he enjoys, to share his enthusiasm for plays or hikes or whatever he, in his good spirits, enjoys. If he has discovered a book that appeals to his fancy, he expects his friend with an entirely — different outlook on life to find the same enjoyment in its perusal. Books other people select are likely to be disappointing and particularly is this true if the recipient is in trouble or in low spirits. It frequently happens that families whose means are limited are criticized for their attendance at picture shows or for going on picnics at resorts. It is possible, of course, that a family may spend too much of its budget in this manner. But, surely, the persons who live on a meagre income, who have few, if any, comforts in the home, who have no music, no magazines nor books in the home, who are constantly worried about debts and money matters, LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 393 have a real need of "escapes." People in more comfortable circumstances have friends' homes where they may call, or automobiles in which to go for drives, or a piano or other music in the home. It is perhaps advisable that a certain amount of even a limited income, should be spent for picture shows and resorts. Likewise, if purchases, house furnishings, ornaments or clothing seem not quite to suit the general standards of taste, it should be remembered' that these purchases are the individual's expressions of taste and beauty, modified by his pocketbook. A community or church program for recreation should offer a variety of diversions—music for the music lovers, pageants for those with dramatic inclinations, swimming and other physical activities for the many indoor workers. The influence of commercial recreations should not be permitted to discourage the development of an extensive community program. There should be some free, supervised activities for all. All individuals should have some opportunity to relax and to set aside their burdens for a short time. Reference: Normal Life, page 42. Questions and Problems 1. Name some wholesome forms of recreation; some unwholesome forms. 2. Why is some form of recreation necessary for every individual? 3. Why is some recreation important for people with limited incomes? 4. Why should parents encourage recreation in the home? 5. What community recreation is provided in your city or town? Teacher's Topic for September Work AS A DEVELOPER OF CHILDREN 1. Work that is play. 2. Value of "chores." "Our civilization does not depend so much on the little red school house as on the kitchen wood box."'—Babson, 3. Parents in the home must lay the foundation in the hearts and minds of the children as to the proper place of work and dignity of labor. 4. The weakness of the age is for old and young to shirk manual labor, and to sympathize with those who have to do it. 5. Arouse, stimulate, create enthusiasm and direct boys and girls, during the formative period, in the home, and it will be easier to contemplate the saving not only to the individual but to the nation: (1) In the betterment of mankind; (2) By prolonging their life of usefulness; (3) By increasing their powers of production; (4) By reducing the cost in operation, maintenance and upkeep of penal institutions. There is No Substitute for Electric Cooking SAFE DEPENDABLE COOL CONVENIENT CLEAN ECONOMICAL No Ashes—No Soot—No Fumes—No Smoke Utah Power, & Light Co. Efficient Public Service u've trie Pierce's tomato sauce! They save you work and trouble—can be served direct from the can. UTAH CANNING CO. OGDEN SINCE 1888 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Pierce's! The beans with the famous Pierce’s tomato sauce! They save you work and trouble-can be served direct from the can. Utah Canning Co Ogden Since 1888 A Home Paper Three Great News Services Special Wires. DOROTHY DIX World's most widely read newspaper writer, All in the A dividend of 10% to all paid in advance subscribers. Send your order today.  22 EAST BROADWAY 33 EAST BROADWAY a Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors: A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Box  Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs........ $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair $1.50 Pure Silk, Semi-Pure Silk, semi-Fashioned, Chiffon. All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Snowcrofts Blue Pine Spices Are the choicest of spices grown. They are guaranteed to you as being absolutely pure. Say Blue Pine PEPPER to your Grocer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PEPPER Vol. XII AUGUST, 1925 No. 8 CONTENTS The White House at Washington D. C. Frontispiece To a Woodpath.............. Estelle Webb Thomas 395 International Council of Women......................Clarissa S, Williams 397 Mother's Evening Prayer...................Nettie E. McMurtrey 408 Tell Your Troubles to the Iceman..................Kate Thomas 409 Editorial—Home and Parenthood Recreation The Editor Abroad........ Alice Louise Reynolds 418 Vitamins Sees... Jean Cox 422 Out of Work... Martha Hartford Webb 427 Of Interest to Women................ Lalene H. Hart 432 Notes from the Filed........ Amy Brown Lyman 434 18) Susan Taylor Jennings 439 Guide Lessons for October. 440 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Salt Lake City, Utah a 65 West First South; Call Your ICE CREAM Nearest CANDY: CAKE PUNCHES Our 30c or deliciously different 50c Special PHONE WAS 3225 f Brick For our success we are indebted to our friends Bennett Glass & Paint Co. GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP $49.00 Southern Pacific Lines PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY. GOOD RETURNING OCTOBER 31, 1925. For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write. J P. BANCROFT, General Agent. 41 South Main Street. Wasatch 3008 Wasatch 3078. Make Sturdy Boys and Girls Our fine quality bottled milk gives health, strength, energy, ambition and success to boys and girls too. It is the best food in the world for growing children. "Daily Deliveries Before Breakfast" CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 7, When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
159 WEST 1st SO. WASATCH 2177
WHEN 3% AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATOR
It won't need ice, and it won't mail in the germs so thoroughly freshens the air in the Automatic that an onion on the top shelf won't spoil the butter and milk in the bottom compartment of the refrigerator. The Automatic is so dry that you can scratch a match on
THE ONION AND THE MATCH
the inside walls. Try these experiments with other refrigerators—see how the Automatic excels.
Automatic scientific air circulation
MODERN FURNITURE CO.
The Famous Z. C. M. I. Factory
OVERALLS
MOUNTAINEER Triple Stitch OVERALLS A strong, serviceable Overall for every-day use
KANT-RIP OVERALLS A slip-on overall made of high grade denim—reasonable in price—wears splendidly
SUMMIT Strong Seams OVERALLS Will Give You Wonderful Service
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
234 So. State St.
Trade With your Friends
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY Distinctive Work Hyland 190 Office 319 S. Main St.
In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience. We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at 260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City
Telephones: Was. 5132 and Hyland 180 Ogden, 466 24th St. Telephone 821-W
Books Recommended for Your Use in Your Relief Society Meetings
Works of Eugene Field, complete.........................$3.00
Edwin Markham's works: Gates of Paradise, and Other poems......................1.75 Lincoln, and other poems..1.50 Shoes of Happiness, and other poems...................1.50 Man with a Hoe, and other poems 1.50
Joaquin Miller's works: Not listed on any of the catalogs we have, we judge, therefore, to be out of print.
Amy Lowell's Poems: Pictures of a Floating world 1.75 Sword Blades and Poppy Seed..................1.75 Legends 1.75 A Doom of many colored glass -- 1.75 Men, Women, and Goats......1.75
Riley's Poems, most of the best ones contained in the Hoosier Book of Verse..........................3.00 Also the Lockerby Book of verse........................3.00
Normal Life, Divine................1.50
Additional information, lists of other good books and helpful suggestions will be given you without obligation upon application.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City.
Sold on Easy Terms Largest Selling Machine in the World.
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner 225 State St. Salt Lake City, Utah A. E. CARTER, Manager
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
No Difference between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar
The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and CANE SUGAR.
BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed process which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR.
BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Europeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR.
Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY—one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers.
Economize in your canning and preserve by using BEET SUGAR
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
RENT a PIANO
In Salt Lake City or Nearby Towns
Apply all Rent on Later Purchase
"We won't buy till we get our new home," or "we won't buy till I see if the children take their lessons." These are common "excuses" we meet—but both objections are now obliterated by our easy rental plan. Come in—see us about it. No obligation.
CAPITAL $1,000,000
Fall Bulbs
FREE CATALOG NOW READY
Fall is the BEST TIME to plant Peonies, Phlox and Perennial Plants. Fall is the ONLY TIME to plant Hyacinths, Tulips, Narcissus, Daffodils, etc. July and August are the best months for sowing perennial Flower Seeds.
Free Catalog Now Ready Giving Full Details Write for it Today
PORTER-WALTON CO. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
CHEAPER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH
1069 East 21st South
Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments
OUR SPECIAL OFFER With every order of $8.00 or over, you get a Fine Rubber Apron FREE. If you do not need Garments now, get an order from your friends or neighbors. On such orders you are entitled to the premium. Be sure and state whether you want NEW or OLD STYLE, MEN'S or LADIES', LONG or SHORT LEGS.
Cotton recommended for MEN and can be made with Double Back.
PRICE LIST FOR SPRING AND SUMMER, 1925
No. 50 Light wt. Bleached cotton, flat weave....$.95 No. 51 Fine ribbed cotton union.........................1.25 No. 52 Fine ribbed bleached cotton....................1.50 No. 54 Medium ribbed unbleached cotton............1.75 No. 56 Medium ribbed union..............................2.00
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
No. 58 Heavy ribbed unbleached cotton....2.25 No. 60 Heavy rib. Bleached cotton..............2.25 No. 64 Fine lisle.......................................2.25 No. 66 Fine mercerized lisle.......................2.75 No. 68 Heavy weight, 1/3 wool....................3.25 No. 94 Pure silk......................................4.50 No. 98 Fine cotton with silk stripe...............1.95
To a Woodpath
You have been calling me; lead me away Far from the wearisome toil of my day, Out to some green nook where wood-sprites still play.
To some cool pool in a far-hidden place Where each white water-flower, with languid grace, Gazing Narcissus-like, views her fair face.
Under the pines to some deep mossy dell, Where, on the breeze, Pan's sweet notes ever swell And the kind Spirit of Peace loves to dwell.
There in its recesses hide all my care, Waft it away on the fresh, fragrant air, Fill my clean soul with rejoicing and prayer.
Thence to some mountain-top, kingly and high, Thrusting its spires toward a fathomless sky, Lending its strength to such weaklings as I.
There, from its summit, with vision more true, Freed from the mists which obstructed my view, May I see clearly the things I should do.
Then all refreshed as a field after rain, Ready to cope with the joy and the pain, Lead me, O, Path, to my Duty again.
—Estella Webb Thomas.
THE WHITE HOUSE AT WASHINGTON D. C.
AND MRS. COOLIDGE
President and Mrs. Coolidge entertained the Quinquennial delegates here.
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XII AUGUST, 1925 No. 8
International Council of Women Quinquennial Meeting
By Clarissa S. Williams
The sixth quinquennial convention of the International Council of Women, held in Washington, D. C., May 4-14, was probably the most extensive international conference ever held. It was stated repeatedly, by those who are familiar with international gatherings, that this meeting eclipsed them all in scope and representation—that even the Versailles Conference following the World War, did not have representatives from so many nations. Organized in Washington in 1888, under the sponsorship of leading American suffrage workers, Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, and others, the International Council has met in many lands. Five years after the initial meeting, there was a conference at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893, when the women present, representing many nationalities, determined to return to their various countries, organize national councils, and make the International Council a real significant and representative International group. Since that time, meetings have been held as follows: England, 1899; Germany, 1904; Canada, 1909; Italy, 1914; Norway, 1920; United States, 1925. At the Washington meeting, there were assembled women from Europe, Asia, Africa, North and South America, and from the islands of the sea—from forty-two nations, including countries older than history and republics newly born. Of the European nations, only Russia, Spain, and Albania were missing. There were delegates from Arctic Iceland and far-away China, from Roumania, Esthonia, Latvia, and Czecho-Slovakia, representing their people for the first time at an international table; from South Africa, New Zealand and Australia, those from the British colony of Tasmania having been on the way to Washington five weeks; from five of the Latin-American nations; from Can-
398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ada and the United States. It was reported by the secretary that the women of Turkey are trying hard to lay the foundations of a National Council of Women, that the women of India have already formed a connection with the Council, and in China the women are working for the formation of a National Council and its federation with the I. C. W. There were in all two hundred fifty delegates, including the International officers, and convenors of standing committees. Each National Council was entitled to ten delegates and ten alternates. Norway, Great Britain, Canada and the United States were the only countries, however, sending the full quota. This brilliant assemblage of women represented a real world power, and their intelligent discussion of international problems was most illuminating. The subject matter was comprehensive and varied. When the International Council was first organized, chief among the subjects discussed was woman suffrage, which with education and curative measures for correcting existing evils, formed the program. At the present meeting, the vital topics were peace and arbitration and international understanding, together with a consideration of preventive welfare work, including education and social legislation. Among those in attendance were many notable and interesting, as well as picturesque, characters. There were doctors, lawyers, linguists, lecturers and preachers, legislators, social workers, engineers and authors—women who have gained high rank in their respective countries in the field of education and human welfare work. The Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, world leader of women and the president of the International Council, who presided at all of the meetings of the Council, is famous for her work in establishing health and recreation centers in Ireland. During her husband's term as viceroy of Ireland, she organized the Irish Woman's Public Health Crusade, and within seven years the mortality rate from tuberculosis in that land had been decreased by more than two thousand deaths per year. Lady Aberdeen has been president for several different quinquennial periods. Her command of languages and her long experience in high social circles have rendered her able to serve her enormous and varied constituencies with exceptional skill. Fru Anna Backer of Norway, who ranks immediately after Lady Aberdeen, is one of the leaders of thought in Norway. In 1920 she received from the Norwegian king a handsome gold medal which is bestowed occasionally for exceptionally valuable service in the field of social welfare. Fru Backer headed the very efficient secretariat. Madam Avril de Sainte-Croix is probably the best known and most respected social worker in France. She is famous for her
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 399
work in promoting a single standard of morals for her nation, and has worked steadily for years for the maintenance of the highest standards of the family. She is well known in France for the organization she has created, and for her participation in the elaboration of new laws which have produced important improvements in the lives of women and children. For her exceptional work in the field of welfare and hygiene, the French government presented her with the great golden medal of Public Assistance and Hygiene for exceptional service. Madam Sainte-Croix is one of the vice-presidents of the International Council, and is president of the National Council of France. Dr. Gertrude Baumer of Germany is a writer and preacher in Berlin. She is known principally, however, for the struggle she made in the Reichstag, of which she is a member, to get through welfare legislation for women workers. Dr. Ogilvie Gordon of Scotland, Doctor of Jurisprudence and Doctor of Philosophy, is an author, linguist and lecturer, actively interested in child welfare. She is a vice-president of the International Council. Froken Henni Forchammer who is a brilliant linguist and author, and one of the vice-presidents of the International Council, represented the Danish government at the League of Nations conference at Geneva. Countess Apponyi is president of the National Council of Hungary. She is also leader of the anti-alcoholic movement and founder of the first sanitarium for alcoholics in her country. Mrs. George Cadbury, of England, a modest and charming Quaker, is convenor of the committee on peace and arbitration. She is chairman of the hospital for crippled children founded by her wealthy husband, and is actively interested in a number of women's and children's groups. She has been decorated with the order of the British Empire and also by the Belgian and Servian governments for her service in the interest of refugees during the late war. Dr. Alice Solomon has founded a number of social service schools in Germany, and is a leader of thought along modern philanthropy. Senora Labarca is professor of philosophy in the national university of Chile and author of a number of books, including a text book on elementary philosophy used by the secondary schools in her country. Mrs. Teressa Isassi, president of the National Council of Mexico, is one of the most significant literary women of that country. She is founder and director of the Society for the Protection of Childhood, and supports a home for homeless children by her work. Mme. Krstitch, of Belgrade, is an architect and director of the Serbian Department of Engineering and Construction. Josephine Szebeko is a member of the Polish senate. It would be impossible to mention all of the noted American
400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
women in attendance at the conference. Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the National Council of Women of the United States, hostess of the sixth Quinquennial, and who was more responsible than anyone else for the success of the convention, must be mentioned first. Mrs. Moore is well known as a leader of women and is noted for her ability as a public speaker and as a presiding officer. Mrs. Moore presided at the ceremonial meeting, as well as at a number of other sessions, and was in full charge of all evening programs. Next to Mrs. Moore in importance was Mrs. Nathaniel E. Harris, a vice-president of the National Council, and general chairman of the quinquennial committee. It was under her immediate direction that the plans for the convention were carried out. Mrs. Glen Swiggett, of Washington, D. C., general chairman of the Washington committee, should receive special mention, and also Mrs. David A. Campbell, chairman of the music department of the National Council, who was in charge of the American music evening. Mrs. Percy V. Pennybacker was chairman of the local program committee, and presided at the Pan-American evening. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, a world-known character, gave one of the principal addresses of the whole convention. Other American women to be mentioned, are Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller, Prof. Marian Whitney, Mrs. Frances Burns, Dr. Valeria Parker, Mrs. Maud Wood Park, Miss Lucy Anthony, Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, Miss Grace Abbott, and Miss Mary Anderson. The meetings of the convention were held in the commodious new Washington auditorium, which was well supplied with amplifiers in order that the vast audience might hear all of the proceedings. At the huge table, which ran the full length of the stage, were seated the International officers, who formed an imposing array of stately, dignified and charming women. Lady Aberdeen who towered in stature above them all, sat in the center, with Fru Backer, corresponding secretary, immediately on her right, and the Misses Zimmern and Van Eeghen, recording secretaries, on her left. At the right of Fru Backer sat Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, first vice-president, Mme. Sainte-Croix, second vice-president, and Mrs. W. E. Sanford, treasurer. Froken Henni Forchammer, third vice-president, and Mrs. Philip N. Moore, sixth vice-president, were seated next to the secretariat at the right end of the table. Convenors and vice-convenors of committees were given seats on the stage, immediately behind the officers. The delegates were seated in the front of the stage, immediately behind the Press, their places being indicated by the national emblems of their respective countries, which gave a patri-
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 401
otic air to the whole proceeding. Next to the delegates were patrons, alternates, special guests, and then came the public. Fifty local young women acted as pages. They gave very efficient service, and were most effective and charming in their white gowns with broad sashes of red, white, and blue. The official languages of the International Council are English, French and German, and out of respect to the Latin-American delegates, whose national councils have newly become federated, Spanish was added whenever necessary. All the proceedings were translated from one language to the others by able and brilliant linguists, who were a constant surprise and marvel to the American women. When a resolution was proposed or a report given in one language, it was translated into the other two official languages before a vote was taken. The European women, generally, spoke more than one language—French being almost universally understood, with English as a close second. In the halls and lobbies many tongues were heard, and it was estimated by one observer that there had not been such a medley of sounds since the Tower of Babel was under construction. Interpreters were plentiful, however, and through them everybody was able to understand everybody else. The convention consisted of general sessions for the public which were held each evening; daily meetings of the Council proper, officers' meetings, and numerous committee meetings. The general sessions were open to the public while the Council meetings, where the regular business was transacted, were limited. Only the general officers, the convenors of standing committees, and the official delegates (ten from each National Council) were permitted to take part in the discussion, and to vote. The general sessions consisted of the following: a ceremonial meeting when an address of welcome was given by Herbert Hoover, and greetings by representatives of the National Council of Women of the United States in the three official languages, with responses from Lady Aberdeen and other honored guests; an evening of American music, showing the evolution of music in this country; an evening when the presidents of the various National Councils or their representatives made brief reports regarding their own countries and the work of their councils; a pan-American evening; a pageant—Peace and War; Mother's Day ceremony at the tomb of the unknown soldier; an evening devoted to a discussion of recent developments in citizenship; and another in which the subject, "Social Ideals in International Life" was discussed by a number of celebrated speakers. The last evening was devoted to a farewell banquet, which was the climax of everything, both intellectual and social. It was held in
402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the ball room of the new Mayflower Hotel, which is said to be the finest hotel in the world. Probably the most interesting of the general sessions was the evening meeting devoted to the reports of the work of the various National Councils. It was indeed inspiring to hear of the efforts being put forth by women to make the world better and safer for humanity. New Zealand reported among other things the lowest death rate among children in all the world; Australia, the great results from their maternity program, which with the assistance of trained social workers and public health nurses, has become very effective. Denmark reported improvement in police work since the introduction of police women. Sweden reported five women in parliament; and Holland, eight women in parliament. In Holland equal pay for equal work is the rule in many professions. Hungary has received great benefit from the recent tuberculosis campaign. In Norway there is a law which provides for at least three women jurors in all cases of sex offense where girls are involved. Among other things, Norway reported that their country provides that illegitimate children shall be entitled to their fathers' names. In Chile the women are training themselves and are being trained for suffrage. The National Council of this country has centered its activities at present on the founding of dormitories for college girls. Through the efforts of the women the wages and salaries of married women are now their own; whereas, they formerly belonged to their husbands and fathers. In Denmark the minister of education is a woman, and women are making their way into university faculties and are gaining better positions generally in the schools, including principalships. In Sweden unmarried mothers are required to go to the municipal authorities, and the courts arrange for the financial support of their children. In South Africa, as far as support for children is concerned, there is no distinction between legitimate and illegitimate children. Fathers must support illegitimate children up to the age of sixteen. An interesting and rather dramatic event occurring at this meeting was the presentation to the Council of a silk banner, by Fru Backer of Norway, international secretary, and its acceptance by the president, Lady Aberdeen. The silk used in its manufacture was a gift by the affiliated councils, and of former premier Herriot of France, when he was mayor of Lyons, the great silk producing city. The embroidery was done in Norway. On the banner are embroidered the eastern and western hemispheres with a bright sun shedding its beams over the world. Below these figures the golden rule is embroidered in Latin. The I. C. had been without a banner since 1914, when the one in use
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 403
was lost at the outbreak of the war on its way from Rome to the home of Lady Aberdeen in Scotland. At the regular Council meetings there were reports of the officers, reports of standing committees, with recommendations and resolutions attached, and it was here that the election of officers took place. Lady Aberdeen presented no formal report as president, but gave a cordial opening address, mentioning some of the special features of the work of the executive committee during the five-year interim. She called attention to the position of the International Council of Women—its aims and purposes. She stated that the main object of the existence of the International Council is not to promote propaganda but to form a center around which all women's societies can gather, confer, and make the voice of organized womanhood heard regarding various subjects of world interest. The policy of the International Council is also the promotion of the international mind in all relations of life. The motto of the Council is the "Golden Rule" and its thirty-six million members are permitted to forward all that tends to the good of mankind by the magic power of love. Inspiration, new insight, and added impetus are results of the I. C. Lady Aberdeen spoke very feelingly of the officers and prominent workers who had passed away since the last Council meeting. Among these she mentioned our own beloved American leader, Dr. Kate Wallet Barrett, who passed away a few months before the International Council meeting. Dr. Barrett was the convenor of the standing committee on immigration and emigration, and was an ex-president of the National Council of the United States. Lady Aberdeen stated that she was one of the few survivors of those in this country who were connected with the early days of both the International Council of Women and the National Council, and that she had given able and devoted service. Only the day before her death she was arranging a tea party for the delegation at her interesting home at Alexandria. The vast audience, at Lady Aberdeen's request, stood in silent remembrance of the fellow-workers who had passed away. The report of the secretary, Fru Backer, was both comprehensive and interesting, covering sixteen printed pages. Among the interesting items reported were the extension of the Council, the inner growth, the meetings of the executive committee, and the relation of the work of the International Council to other world work, etc., etc. The treasurer's report gave in detail the finances of the International Council, including the receipts and disbursements since the last meeting. The reports of standing committees were most interesting and inspiring, and contained the results of surveys and summaries
404 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the work being done throughout the world in the interest of human welfare, and particularly, women and children. The following vital questions were included: peace and arbitration, child welfare, rights of women—equal rights and pay for women, social service, regulation of traffic in women and children, suppression of vice, etc., etc. In connection with their reports, the chairmen of standing committees presented recommendations and resolutions which were discussed and acted upon. Following are some of the items included in the resolutions: Education. The Education Committee favored an interchange of teachers and students between countries; continuation of schools for children from fourteen to eighteen; self-government in schools; the teaching of nature study and simple biological facts in all public elementary schools, and courses of science, including biology and the laws of health in secondary schools; the teaching of international ideals; the community use of school buildings; equal pay for equal work in the teaching profession; the scientific study and practice in full of domestic science and homemaking in all branches which concern the family. Equal Moral Standard. The Equal Moral Standard Committee proposed the establishment of a common plan of work for the protection of emigrants and for the campaign against traffic in women and children; that in those countries in which there is still state regulation of prostitution the National Councils still continue to work for the suppression of the regulation which by degrading a whole class of women perpetrates an injustice and is an outrage against womanhood; that the International Council of Women urge the institution in all countries of women police, with the same status and responsibilities as men in the same service; that the Council urge all women in countries not yet having ratified the convention of Geneva, 1921, for the protection of women and children, to use all their influence to obtain ratification; that the I. C. W. urge that measures be taken for the suppression of such newspaper advertisements as tend to incite immoral behavior. Trades and Professions. Under Trades and Professions the resolutions were adopted providing for: equal professional rights for women; equal pay for equal work; maternity provision after confinement; right of married women to work. Emigration. Under emigration were the following resolutions: that the National Councils be asked to urge their governments to appoint women attachees to their consulates and legations; in the event of any special department or commission being appointed under the League of Nations on Emigration and Immigration, that the I. C. shall urge the appointment of a woman member to represent women's international organizations; in countries where no bureaus already exist to give information to pro-
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 405
fessional women regarding emigration and immigration, that the National Council be urged to take steps to establish them; that the I. C. W. recognizes with gratitude the action of the National Council of Women of the United States in urging their government to admit the wives and minor children of men already living in the states, irrespective of quota. Suffrage. Under the subject of suffrage, the following resolution was adopted: that in order to get the best results from their voting power, women who are enfranchised should join political parties and should form groups within their own parties for the discussion of their special interests, and thus unite to influence their parties; further that these different party groups should get in touch with one another, so that when they agree upon any subject, they can ask unitedly to further their common interests. Child Welfare. That the I. C. W. formally re-indorse the Declaration of Geneva, made by the "Save the Children Fund International Union;" that the National Council be recommended to collaborate with the National Committee of the Union in their respective countries in preparing a Children's Charter suitable to the needs and conditions in each particular country; that the I. C. W. shall request all National Councils to take an active interest in the care and protection of abnormal children, and to report on the measures taken in this direction in the various countries; that the statistics concerning the death rate of legitimate compared with illegitimate children under one year be circulated and that the affiliated Councils be asked to investigate what remedial measures they recommend; that in all countries means should be provided by which preparation for and access to the universities and to all institutions of high learning shall be made possible for the especially gifted child of every class; that the I. C. W. recognizes that the only effective way of combating the evil of drug taking is for the states in which opium and coca leaves are grown to reduce the production to the medical and scientific needs of the world. Peace and Arbitration. There was much speculation among newspaper reporters and the public generally regarding the resolutions to be presented on the subject of the League of Nations and Peace and Arbitration, and regarding the stand to be taken by the American delegation on the subject. But early in the discussion, Mrs Philip N. Moore explained that due to the wide diversion of opinion in this country, and due to the fact that the United States has not entered the League of Nations and has not committed itself to a definite peace program, the National Council decided at its last annual meeting to take no part in the discussion and voting. She said further that nobody was entitled to speak for the National Council on these subjects, but that individuals might speak for themselves if they chose and were per-
406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
mitted to do so. When the resolution on Disarmament was proposed, the German delegates refused to vote on the partial and gradual disarmament resolution, also Poland and Roumania. The International Council as a whole, however, went on record for gradual disarmament and for the inclusion of all countries in the League of Nations, but without the aid of American women. The resolution read: The I. C. W., while recognizing that general disarmament is the ideal to be aimed at, considers that it might be preceded by gradual simultaneous disarmament under effective control to be agreed upon by the respective governments and the League of Nations. They recognize that governments will not agree to disarm until they feel some sense of security. This Council believes that the way to establish peaceful relations among the nations would be through a policy that regards neighboring peoples as natural friends, and not as possible enemies. It is interesting to note that all nations represented at the conference, with the exception of the United States, Germany and Mexico, are members of the League of Nations. There were invitations from several countries for the next quinquennial meeting, but after due consideration it was decided to accept the invitation from Austria, which is centrally located, and of easy access to the many new Councils formed in central Europe. An attractive social program was arranged in connection with the conference, when genuine American hospitality was extended. Chief among the social features was the reception given at the White House by the president of the United States and his wife, in honor of the officers and delegates. The President and Mrs. Coolidge received the guests, who were formally presented to them, most cordially. The President was dignified and courteous and Mrs. Coolidge was most gracious and charming, greeting each guest with a radiant smile, as well as a hearty handshake. She was beautifully dressed in a modest gray gown with shoes to match, and formed a lovely picture against a gorgeous floral background. From the reception room, the guests were ushered into the state dining room, where from a beautifully decorated table, they were served refreshments by the ladies of the Cabinet. They were then invited to spend an hour on the promenade on the west terrace to get acquainted and view the gorgeous White House grounds and gardens. Other interesting events were the teas given by Mrs Herbert Hoover, wife of the Secretary of Commerce; Mrs. John J. Davis, wife of the Secretary of Labor; Mrs. John D. Henderson, the Baroness Balzan, wife of the Ambassador from Germany, and a score of other charming and interesting hostesses. Luncheons and dinners were given at the various embassies by the Ambassadors
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 407
and Ministers and their wives to the women from their respective countries. There were also excursions to the historic places in and about Washington, such as Arlington, Gettysburg and Mt. Vernon, where a wreath was placed on the tomb of Washington, in the name of the women of the world. An outstanding social feature was the breakfast given by the President of the National Council of the United States, Mrs. Philip N. Moore, to the state chairmen who had so valiantly assisted her in raising funds to cover the expense of the great meeting. And an outstanding feature of the breakfast was the report that Utah was the first state to raise its quota, and the detailed account by Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, chairman of the Utah State committee, as to how the quota was raised. At this breakfast Mrs, Moore and Mrs. Harris were each presented by the women of the U. S. Council, with a beautiful jeweled pin, in the form of the International insignia. The election of officers which occurred near the close of the convention was as follows: President, the Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, Scotland; first vice-president, Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, England; second vice-president, Mme. Avril de SainteCroix, France; third vice-president, Mrs. Philip N. Moore, United States; fourth vice-president, Fru Anna Backer, Norway; fifth vice-president, Froken Henni Forchammer, Denmark; sixth vicepresident, Dr. Alice Solomon, Germany; seventh vice-president, Princess Cantacuzene, Roumania; corresponding secretary, Miss L. A. Van Eeghen, Holland; recording secretaries, Miss A. Christitch, Jugo-Slavia and Madame Romniciano, Roumania; treasurer, Mrs. W. E. Sanford, Canada. Convenors and vice-convenors of standing committees were also elected, representing various other countries not represented among the officers. From the beginning, Utah has had representation at the meetings of the International Council of Women. The Utah representation at the Washington meeting was as follows: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, official U. S. Delegate; Mrs. Ruth May Fox, auditor of the National Council of Women; Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, state chairman for the state of Utah; Mrs. E. O. Wattis, vicechairman for the state of Utah; Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, national patron; Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon; Miss Florence Kimball; Mrs. N. K. Forrester; Mrs. Eliza F. McFarland; Mrs. L. W. Lund; Mrs. S. L. Chipman; Miss Bae Williams; Miss Marion Cartwright; Mrs. M. F. Cowley, and daughter Carol.
Mother's Evening Prayer
Fourth poem to receive honorable mention in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest.
By Nettie E. McMurtrey.
With the evening shadows falling, And birds to their mates a-calling; Fancy takes me back to childhood, Back to home and mother there: All around us night is creeping, Stars from out the sky are peeping, Then I kneel beside my mother, And in childish wonder listen While she says her Danish prayer.
Though I knew not what she was saying All the while that she was praying, Yet I knew that she was asking God's kind blessings on us all. Thanking him for mercies given, Asking him for light from heaven Praying that no harm or evil On her children may befall.
Sweet and low her voice ascended On the quiet evening air, As I kneeled beside my mother, And in humble silence listened While she said her Danish prayer.
Oh, that wishes might be granted, Like old fairy tales enchanted, Then I'm sure one wish would take me Back to home and mother there. And with evening shadows creeping, Stars from out the blue sky peeping, I'd kneel softly down beside her, Bow my head in humble reverence, While in her own native language Mother said her evening prayer.
Tell Your Troubles to the Iceman.
By Kate Thomas.
Miranda heaved a sigh of relief, as she waved her hand to the last retreating figure. It was awful to be glad to see folks go, but, after all, they were going for a good time. She begrudged them nothing, so why should she not rejoice in the thought of the house to herself for one whole month? A long, beautiful, unbroken quiet in which she could do as she pleased. No one to boss her, no ill-trained children to say don't to, no indolent ones to waste time and energy on by spurring them to do. No dishes. She could eat what she pleased. Cantaloupes and tomatoes, cucumbers and watermelon, olives and lettuce, nuts and raisins, and big crusts of baker's rolls with milk. Not one thing would she cook in all that month. And best of all, there would be no front door traffic by dirty-booted big boys too lazy and too inconsiderate to go around. In fact, all front door traffic, except for callers, should cease. At least it would not be her fault if the daily-growing-more-sloppy family did not get the impulse to go back to its more orderly habits. Losing no time, she went immediately from the gate to the telephone. When she hung up the receiver it was with the blessed knowledge that next morning a man would be on hand to nail up the little tin notice that peddlers, workmen, delivery boys, and venders in general were to inquire at the proper entrance. Then she got a bucket, a digging fork and a pickaxe. It was an unusually hot, dry summer. The lawn was a stretch of yellow patches, relieved by very little green. No use hoping to save that, but she might revive the drooping trees. The dear, helpful trees that gave the kindly shade! It was hard for her slight strength to make any headway in the packed, clay soil. Buckets and buckets from the ditch she carried to soften it. Slowly but steadily she dug trenches around the trees and carried more buckets and buckets to fill them. She tied the straggling branches of the climbing rose, dug a little trench at its roots and poured in a bucket there. The struggling treelings along the fence caught her eye. Bravely, in spite of the drought, they were making their fight for life. "Humans aren't the only ones to fight for that little commodity," she soliloquized. "If I could get out those weeds that are taking their share of moisture it would give the trees a chance." It was a hard undertaking, but she went at it. More buckets and buckets to soften. More little cups dug at the roots, and then more buckets and buckets to fill them. Simple Simon wasn't so imbecile after all. You could catch a whale of a job in a pail,
410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
She sat down on the steps and surveyed her job. She was tired. As was her wont, she had done everything at once. Three weeks of straight loafing followed by four weeks' work in one was Miranda's way. She had found the steady routine of daily housework, unrelieved as it usually is, by any word of praise or sympathy, deadly dull and unspeakably trying. She believed that 'physically, mentally and morally' she was 'quite unfitted for work.' "That's why I take so long to think it over before doing any,' she explained. No one, not even herself, knew how much she really did. She was one of those persons born to go through life disconnected with any halo of labor even though her back were breaking. Sometimes she resented this fact, but accepted it as unchangeable. Now she sat and gazed at her work. The baby trees looked very attractive, cleared of the rubbish that had almost covered them, and the old board fence as well. "Nobody will notice it but me," she thought. "But it doesn't matter. Anyway it's only what you see with your own eyes that gets to your soul. They are darling little trees! And they've got more sense than people. Just look how they are coming up in the very places where they will be most needed. I know lots of folks with diplomas who can't do that." She was so stiff when she arose. It was queer how a few hours of different occupation could make your knees wobble so. "I'm almost unfitted for prayer,' she commented. "A few more buckets and I'll go in." An ice wagon rumbled by as she bent once more at the ditch. The driver looked down with a friendly smile. "You ought to be singing, 'The Old Oaken Bucket'," he said. "Can't," she answered, "Its metal. Besides I haven't breath enough left to sing." "Ha, Miranda! In one light phrase you have struck the chord of the drudgers. Keeping their warped souls in their ill-used bodies is a task. They haven't breath enough left to sing!" The next morning the last of the front-door vendors came. "Any vegetables?" "If you will go to the back door the cook will tell you," said Miranda. Then she went back through the house, opened the back door and said coolly, "No, thank you." The man, an ill-tempered "dago," went away scowling. She was pretty sure he would not come again, and felt somewhat elated. She couldn't stand the sight of his one poor, old, stiff-kneed, rib-protruding horse. Miranda was patriotic. She preferred to patronize the clean, home-grown Bountiful youths with their well-cared for teams and produce fresh from their own farms. "Bread!" came an insistent voice. The baker was a chatty youngster who had taken his job TELL YOUR TROUBLES TO THE ICEMAN 411 and a pretty flapper wife at almost the identical moment. He had been coming for six months. He looked at her somewhat piteously as he held out the basket. Plainly he was in the dumps. "Any trouble?" she asked lifting out the crisp rolls. "My wife threatens to leave me!" Oh, gloom of the infernal pit! Orpheus outside the door of Hades bewailing his lost Eurydice with the three-headed dog snapping at his heels to drive him farther off! It was a miserable little tale. "I treated her as good as could be. I gave her all my wages. 3ut she says it isn't enough. She went to all the shows while I was working. I never cut her down any, and she's had a good time. I never complained about what she spent." "Perhaps you should have," said Miranda. "It's an even game, half-and-half, you know. Did you tell her what your wages were when you asked her to marry you?" "Ves, and I told her she could have it all." "That was rather foolish. You are both young and have lots of lessons to learn. You should learn them together." "We can't, nov." "Why, she hast.'t gone yet, has she?" "No, but she says she will." "Cheer up. Now and then a woman has been known to change her mind. Of course, it isn't often, but it has happened." "T think it's my mother-in-law," he continued hopelessly. "I know my wife gives her quite a bit of money." "Oh, then she's saving it for her!" t "No. No. She wouldn't do that, she's always spoiled her herself." b "Maybe she realizes her mistake now and is trying to make up or it." 5 "No. No," said the baker, shaking his head solemnly. "1 wotldn't believe that much good of either of them. And I'm going to love my job," it was the first alertness he had shown, "so I can't give her any more." "Fine!" said Miranda. "And I think you'll find you are worrying needlessly. Pshaw! Everybody tiffs once in awhile. Why, quarrelling is the cheapest pleasure married folks can have. They don't have to spend a cent on it. And they can take their friends in on a free ticket, too!" The bread man brightened. "I guess you're right," he said. "Surely, I'm right," she agreed enthusiastically. "I'm always right. Only sometimes its hard to make the other fellow see it. It seems too bad," she continued, changing the subject, "to ask you to call every morning when two rolls is all I shall need. If you like, I'll get them at the corner store." 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "I’d rather bring them. You seem to understand so," he answered. Morning chats with the bread man, tabulated Miranda's thinking machine. Well, he was lonely; it wouldn't hurt her to help him over it. Besides she was interested in the outcome. She hoped the flapper bride would have good sense. She began the dishes. There were plenty of them—left over from the day before. She had been too tired to wash them, and she was doing as she pleased. "Tce ie? "T think so. Fill it up so it will last." Miouw! Wow! Bang, smash! The first was from the cat, the second from the iceman, the third from the ice. He had stepped on her, jumped two feet in fright, and dropped the ice on the stone step. "Poor cat! Poor iceman! Poor ice! Poor me!" laughed startled Miranda. "That makes your heart beat faster than getting a valentine! My gain and the company's loss," she said putting the ice into a pan. "Too bad you got that scare. Bring me an extra big piece for the same money to make up for it." The grinning man departed. Coming back with the ice he asked, "That blooming animal isn't around now is she?" "No fear. The bloom of that blooming animal is wilted. She'll run from you for the next seven moons.' The iceman carefully took out the milk bottle and half a dozen bottles of root beer, put in the ice and replaced the bottles in order. "You may have one if you like," said Miranda. He deserved something for stepping on the cat. Perhaps she had learned a lesson now and would keep out of the way.: Stepping on cats was a horrible sensation—_nearly as bad as stepping on toads— and Miranda was always doing it. The iceman liked, he preferred, drinking it there. " T heard what you said to the guy that just went out. That's why I never married," he volunteered. "Didn't like the idea of quarrelling, and girls want more than a man'can give 'em nowadays. YRitiranda turned silently to her dishes. He finished the root beer and stood looking at her. "Ts this a hard place?" jhe asked. "Sometimes I think so," she answered laconically. "T have one crazy boss, but the others are all right." She did not answer. "Well, so long. Thanks for the drink," and he was gone. "It looks like I am in for conversations," mused Miranda. I don't mind tiding the breadman over, but I can't talk to everybody." TELL YOUR TROUBLES TO THE ICEMAN 413 She kept out of sight when he replenished the ice next time. But the time after that he caught her. "You are always working," he said.. "I've got a friend that boards up the. Street. He says that every time he passes you are pumping water." Jupiter! Zeus! And all the other Greek and Roman gods! Life was surely empty to someone if you couldn't carry buckets and buckets without being commented upon! She turned on him with incredulous, cold eyes. "You don't mean that I am the subject of discussion with your friends?" "Don't get hot. He was just praising you. I thought you'd like to hear a compliment." "I detest compliments," she snapped, "especially from strangers." "Don't get huffy. He didn't mean no harm. He lives with a German, and the German says you'd be a good, industrious wife." "Well, tell him I wouldn't." She laughed in spite of herself. It was too funny. "I suppose to some nice, kind man who would love to sit on the porch and watch me at my work. Please, when you are with your friends, talk about ice and the weather and leave me out of it." I talk about ice when I talk about you!" he flung at her. "And the weather is hot!" "Not so bad for an iceman," she chuckled to herself. "I wonder if I'd better put on my pink plush and my oleomargine so that man will recognize my rank and station." However, she didn't. She was in the same bungalow apron and she was frving onions. She was treating herself to one mess of the smelly things while everyone was away. "Have you worked awfully hard?" he asked. "No. I'm just loafing. Don't feel sorry for me, I never work much." His thoughtfulness touched her. "Would you like to go out to Saltair tonight?" he asked awkwardly. Heavens! He was no freshie to be taken down. He was sincere and shy. "Tt's nice of you to ask me," she said, "but I couldn't go. I mustn't leave the house alone." "They shouldn't tie you up like this," he protested. "The old house will keep!" Then the breadman came, quite out of time. He had evidently been telling his troubles all along his route. His face was white and his young eyes were strained. "She's gone home to her mother," he whispered. "She says for a week, for a change and rest. But she'll never come back. Her mother's been egging her on to it!" 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Why should young hearts have these heavy trials? The pity of it! The boy couldn't be more than twenty. His misery made her heart ache. "Perhaps you are doing her and her mother a wrong by distrusting them," she said. '"Why. Don't you take them at their word? Send her a box of candy, and a sweet little note telling her how you miss her and how glad you -will be when the week is up; but how glad you are, too, that she is having a jolly, restful time. Try it. But don't go to see her. You want to find out don't you?" she asked as the boy's face fell, "whether she really loves you and misses yow too." "You honestly believe that's the thing to do?" He looked at her pathetically. "I honestly believe that's the thing to do." But her heart sank, What if the way should be wrong? The iceman stood listening and the two of them went away together. Miranda felt tired. More tired than when she carried buckets and buckets of water. Poor boy! And all she could do for him was hope. But the iceman, returning, had a grievance. "Do you belong to this family?' he exploded. 'Are you their daughter?" "Yes," she answered. "And you let me think you was the hired girl, and led me on to asking you to go out with me!" Alas Miranda! She, a "verging" self-accepted subdued and refined spinster accused of—flirting! She could have rolled on the floor with hilarity. But a keen sense of humor is a good thing to have. She knew when not to laugh. "Didn't you want me to go?" she asked seriously. "Of course," he answered staring at her, "but—" "And I refused because J had to stay with the house. But I knew that you had asked me in kindness because you really wanted to give me a good time. And I thank you for that kindness. I hope you will always be kind, and to all women. We need it so. I should like to feel that every woman you meet from now on will look at you with the same good wish in her heart that 1 have now." Here the young baker bounded in. "Tt's just as you said!" he cried happily. "I met her and her mother on the corner. They're going downtown to buy the baby clothes. I'm going to have a baby! Gee! I'm bugs over it! That's why her mother took the money. She said Lil was foolish and she ought to save for Jt. You bet, I'll never forget you!" "Good luck!" said Miranda. Her heart was full. 'Good luck to both of you." And the breadman and the iceman once more walked away together. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON: - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F, Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist REUIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - CrarissaA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop' s Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XII AUGUST, 1925 No. 8 Home and Parenthood Running like a thread through the recent conference of social work in Denver was the general theme of the home as a means of moral development. It assumed two phases—first the imperative need of some sort of training for parenthood before young persons enter upon this stage of their life, and second, the home, more than the past must endeavor to carry out its share of responsibility with the school and the church for the morals of the children and the young people. Also this same thought was urged upon the American nation by the conference of educators held last month in Indianapolis. It appears, therefore, that thinking people everywhere in this country are seeking to create stronger bulwarks for the home. Very gratifying indeed it is to know that the Latter-day Saints have all along stressed the value of the home as a nursery for morality. Perhaps no community, unless it be the ancient Hebrews, has placed greater emphasis upon the family life. And this from the very first. Children, with them as with the Old Testament Jews, have been and are still "the heritage of the Lord." Also they have adapted such means as will promote the virtues of the home life. They usually have family prayers night and morning; they generally have weekly home evenings. Families, after the children have grown up, aim to keep up the home spirit by family reunions. Then too, like the Roman Catholics, the Church frowns upon divorce and everything else that tends to break up the home. 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But the "Mormon" people go a step further. In a day when marriage is being viewed more and more by certain classes as a mere contract that can be broken at will, the Saints have surrounded the marriage vow by the sanctity of religion. The ceremony, when under the sanction of the Church, is performed in the most sacred building known to the Saints—the temple. Special clothing, worn only on sacred occasions, is put on for the purpose. And the ceremony itself is binding in eternity as well as in time. Thus there is the suggestion of permanence in the home. In the next world as in this, the Saints teach, the home will continue to be a social unit, where love is the basis of all happiness. Recreation After the instinct of hunger and of sex none is so deepseated in man as the instinct for play. Recreation comes from a word meaning "to revive, to freshen, to make new." As water is to the thirsting flowers or food to the hungry man, so is recreation to the boy or girl worn out by the drudgery we call work. At its normal, human nature is resilient as an elastic ball. "Man is the only animal that can laugh." Since this instinct is not to be suppressed but guided, it follows that opportunity must be provided for its outlet. Otherwise it will make its own—like a stream that has been dammed up. Who is to provide this necessary recreation? The young and inexperienced, who do not know the approach to the pitfalls? Or the man or the institution whose only purpose is to make money by furnishing new thrills? Or the community or the church, whose main concern is human welfare? To ask these questions is already to answer them. How pitifully short-sighted it was in the beginning, whenever that was, for the community to license private individuals or corporations to direct the amusement of its youth. Then was the time—in the beginning—to set the movement on its foot, to turn its face in the right way. For after a thing has once got a start, it is very difficult to alter its course, let alone to stop it altogether. But that is the ideal, nevertheless, in all recreational programs—public control of recreational sources. Is there a dance hall to be established, a resort to be opened, a play house to be built? Let the community or the church bestir itself before any private interests can lay hold of these means of recreation. For as sure as fate itself, private interests will follow the lines of least resistance to the dollar, and the highest good can take care of itself. And this from the very nature of things, rather than from any desire to corrupt the youth, No man or set of men should be allowed to exploit the normal instincts of boys and girls, anywhere or anytime. Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem ANNOUNCEMENT 1925 The memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually. RULES OF THE CONTEST 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. Two prizes will be awarded—a first prize consisting of $20 and a second prize consisting of $10. 2. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks. 3. Only one side of the paper should be used. 4. Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest. 7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 8. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15. The prize poems will be published each year in the January - issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates. All the entries should be sent to Alice L. Reynolds, Associate editor, Relief Society Magazine, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15. The Editor Abroad ITALY By Alice Louise Reynolds. The tourist is, as a rule, either in search of places of interest or of beauty. At the moment we are in what is generally conceded to be the most beautiful mountain city of the world, Imsbruck, in Austria. Much has been written about the heauty of this city of the Tyrol; suffice to say, at present, that it would be a difficult matter to write extravagantly about it. Italy, the subject of this chapter, has its beauty spots, yet it is not generally sought because of its many and varied interests. Italy is the home of three civilizations, and reflects a fourth in a very extraordinary manner, We left our readers last time at the gates of the citv of Pompeii. Pompeii was built by the Greeks, and reflects Greek civilization to a degree that it is not easy to measure. The best sculpture that Italy exhibits, in her exceptionally fine museums, both in Naples and Rome, is that which has come from Greece. An eminent writer on Greek art, declares that all that is best in Roman sculpture is Greek, and that which is worst is Roman. Italy was the seat of the old Roman Empire; on every side one sees ruins that bear eloquent testimony of the greatness of the empire that practically dominated the world. In fact, tourists sometimes get very tired of looking at these ruins, for they are at best rather unsightly. ''In Italy," exclaimed an American girl, in a jocular fashion, "if it isn't a ruin, its a wreck." To be sure, it is the meaning that attaches to all these things that makes them important. Then we have the Italy of the middle ages and the Italy of the Renaissance—the Italy of the Roman Catholic Church. The period that built a most extraordinary number of fine churches and covered the ceilings and walls with paintings such as churches have seldom, if ever, in the history of our world been embellished with. Today we have a new Italy that has brought together all the little republics and petty kingdoms that used to exhaust themselves' fighting one another. This new Italy is about fifty-five years of age, and has as its king the grandson of the man largely responsible for its unity. This new Italy is placing the entire civilization of the world under great obligation to it, because of the manner in which it is seeking to reveal and conserve the past. In 1906, when we first visited Italy, much of the city of Pompeii was unearthed; on our last visit, only a few weeks ago, very much more is visible, THE EDITOR ABROAD 419 and the museum at Naples, which is the custodian of most of the interesting and precious things taken from the city, has been enriched immeasurably. The great paintings of the Middle Ages such as the Aurora, to be foand on the ceiling of a Roman palace, and the Last Supper, in Milan, are receiving the utmost intelligent care that they may be preserved. Because of the many interests of Italy, tourists are rushing there from all parts of the world. This is particularly true of the present year, for this is a year of Jubilee, observed every twenty-five years by the Roman Catholic Church. From our own, city of Boston, the cardinal, who resides there, headed a party of five hundred pilgrims to the city of the Pope. Our guide in Naples told us that he would not be at all surprised if six million tourists visited Naples this year. Very likely, more tourists see Naples than any other city in Italy, as the cruising vessels usually stop there for a day or so and then proceed on their way either East or West. 'See Naples and die," was the exclamation of the Italian poet who stood on a height from which he could see the horseshoe of the lovely Vesuvian bay; but fortunately most people are not content with seeing only the bay, having seen that, they want to see more; so that Naples is only one of a group of Italian cities that is feeling the influx of visitors. We heard it said that unusually cheap rates had been offered to Sicily to divert the tourist to a part where the hotels are not entirely occupied. Tourists were held back from Florence in the month of April and during that same month Milan found it impossible to accommodate the many visitors asking to be taken care of. The city of Naples is often the first city of Italy entered by the tourist. It is famous for its situation on the bay; it was in a hotel overlooking its blue waters that Caruso breathed his last. Its picturesqueness is added to by Mount Vesuvius, that juts up in its semi-circle, emitting a cloud of smoke by day and a pillar of fire by night. The city of Naples is interesting because its great museum contains all of what is best that has been taken from the ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum, as well as many of the finest treasures of Greek art that were brought from Greece to adorn the Villa of the Emperor Hadrian. And again, Naples is of interest, because it is the largest city of the Italy of today. Yet we fancy some of our readers are asking, "Are there no drawbacks to this city of blue skies and blue waters?" and we, of course, unhesitatingly admit that there are. When we first saw Naples, in 1906, it was the dirtiest city we had ever seen, and it was infested with beggars, many of whom asked us for alms, but some who demanded a tip for such a slight service as pointing out a door in a building we had already paid to enter, or for that matter closing a door behind us. Since our first visit to Italy, we have seen the Orient, so that we know that there are 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE other dirty cities, and other cities infested with beggars. However, it is only fair to say that Naples is much cleaner and much freer from beggars than it was in 1906. We had in our party, through Italy, a trained nurse and her companion a trained librarian. These two ladies were constantly offended, as were we all, because the food in the shops is exposed, and because many laws of sanitation are much more honored in the breach than in the observance. To be sure, the Italians have some distance to travel before they arrive at American standards in matters of sanitation, yet the fact that they forbid the burying of the dead within and about the churches as they did formerly, insisting that the cemetery shall be far distant from the heart of the city, shows that they are waking up to these matters. Passing from Naples to Rome, the capital of the present kingdom of Italy, we find proof of the popular saying that size is not everything. Rome is the third city of Italy, in size, Naples and Milan surpassing her in the number of her population; yet Rome is by all odds the most important city in italy. Rome is important because she was the capitol of the Old Roman Empire, and because the most important ruins of that city are found either within her ancient walls, or at a not very great distance from them. Rome as the chief city of the Roman Catholic church is also of great importance, and this year it is the city to which pilgrims' feet are turned from all over the world. Rome is, above all other cities in the world, the city of churches. Its churches are very numerous, and some of them are very beautiful as well as very important. In her museums are found some of the most priceless treasures of Greek and Roman art that this world possesses;: she is conserving for all the world valuable old books, valuable pieces of sculpture, valuable pieces of painting and valuable presents, to the various Popes, presented by the crowned heads of all the world. Mr. H. H. Powers in speaking of modern Rome, speaks of her as a city "masking the monuments of church and empire" which we take is a very unique way of saying that modern Rome owes her greatness to the fact that she was the seat of the Great Roman Catholic church for many centuries." Mr. Powers adds, "It is with varied emotions that the thoughtful traveler enters the Eternal City," and concludes his paragraph with the exclamation, ' "What city is like Rome!" an exclamation that is apt to find echo 'in the minds and hearts of all who thoughtfully enter there. Then there is Florence, the city that for its art output has had _only one peer since the world began; for Athens is the only other city, since the dawn of civilization, that has given to the world the names of as many noted sculptors, painters and writers as has Florence. Florence has made a real contribution to the world in architecture, painting, sculpture and in literature. All nations A STREET SCENE IN NAPLES are enriched because of her achievements, consequently all nations should rise and call her blessed. Florence had two great leaders, Lorenzo de' Medici and Savonarola. The first drew to his own fireside and his own table men of promise and gave them encouragement. Verily, his reward has been great, for if he did not entertain angels unawares he entertained geniuses of the highest order. The other man, the great Savonorola, set these men's souls on fire with righteous impulses. Verily, both have their reward, for Florence nursed the genius of the man who painted what has been called the greatest of all Christian paintings, "The Last Supper," and gave to the world the greatest of all Christian sculptors, and perhaps, also, the greatest of all Christian architects, in Michelangelo. And perhaps, what Michelangelo did was even more than that, for Mr. Powers tells us that when Michelangelo wrought his wonder-works in marble, the best of Greek art was unknown to the Italians, consequently he boldly states, "that the feeblest work of Michelangelo ever executed was nobler than the best antique," that the Italians then knew. Vitamines By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education Vitamines are probably the most talked of food substances at the present time. Their history and development are the result of painstaking experiment in animal feeding and the careful study of cause and effect of diet on humans. Several diseases are now well defined which seem closely related to the consumption of limited variety or poorly selected foods. While interest at the present time is keen in this important food factor it seems well here to offer a word of caution. Vitamines are only one of several important elements in nutrition. No less authority than Dr. Mary Swartz Rose says that altogether too much emphasis is being placed on vitamines. The old adage, "Be not the first the new to try nor yet the last. To lay the old aside," might well apply to the science of nutrition. Good standards in nutrition do not require mad chasing after food fads. In order, however, to profit by the many painstaking experiments and careful conclusions reached by a number of men who are devoting their lives to this field, it seems wise to give their findings some consideration. The term vitamin was coined in 1912 by Cassimar Funk and means "life giving" because diets in which the vitamines are lacking prolong life without growth only a short time and then death results if changes are not effected in the diet. The history and development of the so called vitamin is full of interest to the student of science. It also has an appeal for the homemaker because it helps her to understand the great importance of having foods in right amounts and kind if she would increase the resistance and improve the health standards of her family. In fact intelligent meal planning and satisfactory food preparation is much more interesting if some attention is given to the better known vitamines A, B, and C. The term vitamin would better be considered as a family name. Vitamines D, E, and X have already been added to the list. It is more than probable that additional members will be discovered and that their function and uses in the body will be quite as interesting as any information we now have regarding A, B, C. Other experimenters have applied different terms of these so called "Accessory food factors." Much of the discussion on them has been highly technical but the laymen need also to know something as to what they are and what their functions are in the body. Vitamines A, B, and C, deal with the cause and cure of three diseases which result from their absence. Contrary to popular opinion this development is less recent than is popularly supposed. The first interest expressed in relation of food selection and health VITAMINES 423 was in connection with one of the present so called deficiency diseases known as scurvy as early as 1920, Kramar wrote that neither medicine nor surgery could give relief in scurvy. His experiments proved that the use of green vegetables and antiscorRAT A Rat A. The diet for this rat consisted of food products which are essentially storage organs of plants such as grains and roots and muscle meats. This diet is low in ash constituents and vitamin A and is inadequate for growth. RAT B Rat B. The diet of this rat was similar in every respect to that shown in Rat A except a generous use of milk was given this rat. The addition of this so called protective food made the othe~- wise unsatisfactory diet adequate. 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE butic juices would, without the use of medicines, cure this disease which for many years has meant suffering and death where men were deprived of fresh foods for more than six weeks at a time. In further confirmation of this belief in 1804 the British Navy had lemon juice as a part of the regular ration. At the present time the juices of citrus fruits, raw cabbage, sauerkraut and green leaf vegetables are recognized for their antiscorbutic qualities. Radical changes in dietary customs have often resulted in disease. This is noticeably true in the development of beri beri in the Japanese army. Between the years 1878-1882 this disease was much more prevalent than previous to this time. Careful study and much experimentation showed that this disease resulted when the Japanese soldiers were put on a diet consisting largely of polished rice rather than the unpolished rice which had been customary before this period. The controlling factor in this change in dietary customs was later found to be the so called Vitamin B. Much of our knowledge of vitamines has been the result of careful experiments in animal nutrition. Workers along this line of research sought to determine values of different kinds of foods by feeding diets having carefully controlled amounts of pure proteins, carbohydrates and fats. Hopkins as early as 1906 determined and reported that "no animal can live upon a mixture of pure protein, carbohydrate and fat, even when the necessary inorganic material is carefully supplied, as the animal cannot flourish without the presence of vitamines in the diet. The animal body is adjusted to live either upon plant tissues or other animals and these contain countless substances other than the proteins carbohydrates and fats." In these experiments with animals it was found that when the diet was inadequate for proper growth or maintenance a small addition of milk would often make the limited diet adequate. In the early experiments much confusion resulted from the addition of milk as the experimenters did not realize that not one but three valuable vitamines A, B, C, were contained in this so called "most perfect food." The present keen interest in nutrition results from two factors. One of these is the outgrowth of a long series of animal experimentation, while the other is a study of cause and effect of different food combinations on human beings. The experimental work with animals by McCollum and Block and Hopkins, Mendell and Sherman paved the way for the conclusions regarding effects of wrong diet upon the individual and group. Animal experimentation further proved that effects of poor diet are cumulative, and that if wrong diet is persisted in during several generations results are more marked in each succeeding generation: by lack of vitality, increased infant mortality, and early aging. Considerable impetus was given to the study of foods con- VITAMINES 425 taining vitamin A during the war because of eye sickness or zerothalmia which was prevalent among the children of some of the Scandinavian countries. A study of the epidemics showed that this resulted when the diet lacked foods containing vitarnin A. In the countries most affected, all of the butter fat and cod liver oil had been shipped out to help win the war. Spectacular cures were effected when the addition of one or both of these valuable sources of vitamin A were made to the limited diet. More recent studies in rat colonies have discovered other sources of vitamin A. Green leaf vegetables have been found satisfactory supplementary means of supplying this valuable vitamin when there is little butter in the diet. The Japanese, whose milk supply is extremely limited, make generous use of diffrent kinds of green leaves. Absence of foods containing vitamine A, may cause the socalled deficiency disease zerothalmia or eye sickness. Lack of vitamin B may cause pellagra which is one of the best known deficiency diseases. Partial absence of these food substances may cause much suffering, death in terms of high infant mortality, physical inefficiency, early aging and poor teeth. The present tendency to live on foods low in ash and vitamines is producing far too many cases of borderline nutrition. The so called typical American diet, according to McCollum, of bread, 'meat, potatoes and pie is low in ash and vitamines. More attention must be given to increased consumption of milk, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, fresh fruits and some whole grains. The diet of the nursing mother should contain a generous amount of food containing vitamin C in order to protect the child from this disease. From studies made by the American Medical Society it has been found: That breastfed babies are much less apt to develop scurvy. That the use of raw cow's milk causes little scurvy. That the use of pasteurized milk causes considerable scurvy. That the use of condensed cow's milk causes about four times as much scurvy as pasteurized milk. That the use of proprietary foods cause the greatest number of cases of scurvy. Their records show that out of 366 cases studied 214 resulted from the use of proprietary foods. When milk is the chief food of young infants less danger of scurvy results. When the proportion of milk is decreased and the use of cereals increased then the amount of anti-scorbutic fruit juices (oranges, lemons, raspberries, tomatoes) should be increased. Because of the danger in milk that isn't produced under absolutely clean conditions it is becoming more and more customary to use milk that has been heated or pasteruized. When this is done additional care must be taken to protect the baby from scurvy 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by making small additions of fruit and vegetable juices containing vitamin C. Infantile scurvy was recognized in 1894 and has developed since it has been possible to rear a larger number of babies, since proprietary foods, condensed, and pasteurized milk, have been used. The discovery of vitamin C and its functions has been one of the biggest factors in decreasing infant mortality. In addition to the easily detected cases of scurvy there are many cases of border malnutrition which are really borderline cases of scurvy where the patient is below his optimum state of health. Scurvy develops gradually. The sufferer loses weight, is anaemic pale, weak and short of breath. Scurvy always means lack of appetite. When there is only a limited amount of green vegetables in the diet, do not overcook. This also applies to fruits, as fruit jellies made quickly are more valuable than those cooked over a longer period. In Conclusion The chief sources of vitamin A are milk and milk products, green leaf vegetables, liver, egg yolk, tomatoes. 'Some little vitamin A is found in grains. The chief source of vitamin B are grains, tomatoes, citrus fruits, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, nuts, milk and yeast. The chief source of vitamin C are citrus fruits, raspberries, tomatoes, green leaf vegetables and milk. The functions of the vitamines are: Vitamin A helps to resist disease. Vitamin A is important for general stamina. Vitamin A is important for reproduction and lactation. Vitamin A is not destroyed by heat in ordinary food preparation. Lack of Vitamin A inhibits growth for a time. Lack of Vitamin A increases susceptibility to infection. Vitamin B is necessary for appetite. Vitamin B is necessary for maintaining weight. Vitamin B is necessary for normal growth. Vitamin B is necessary for increasing weight. Vitamin C is necessary for protection against scurvy. Vitamin C is necessary for growth. Diets consisting largely of muscle meats, finely milled flours, purified sugars and fats are inadequate from the standpoint of vitamines. Every meal should contain some vitamines. Every day's dietary should contain some vitamines A, }, C. Pictures courtesy of Dr. E. V. McCollum—John Hopkins University. Out of Work By Martha Hartford Webb The following play "Out of Work" was presented at the officers' meeting of the official conference held April 2, 1925, in the Bishop's building. In response to the demand for the play by Relief Society workers, the General Board has received permission from the author to publish it in The Magazine. It may be presented by any of the wards or stakes. There is no royalty charge. CHARACTERS: A Working Man Pattie AVIS......... His Wife Their Child Ellen Morris. Visitor for the Family Service Society Scene I (A poor room with a couch, a small table, three chairs. A picture or framed motto askew on the wall, soiled dishes on the table, bedding in disorder. Annie, worried and half sick, seated rocking Jessie, the child sick and listless. She rises and lays Jessie on the couch, laying an old cover over her. The child turns away from the light.), (Enter Will from outer door. He takes off his hat and lays it down, then as A. Straightens up and looks at him, he throws up his hands in a gesture of despair, and drops into a chair.) A. Oh, Will, I did hope you'd get a job today! (Turns away with her arm over her face.) W. We might as well give up, Annie. Tramped the town all day—tried everything between here and Steelton—asked for jobs from house to house. Ten months of it! Annie, I'm beat. A. (Coming toward him impulsively) Oh, Will, I wa'nt meanin' to blame you, I know how you've tried. Oh, why ain't I strong enough to be some good! I'm jest a drag on you, sick this way half the time. W. (Getting up and putting his hand on her shoulder.) There, there Annie it's havin' you and the little girl that's kept me goin'. (Turning to the couch, where the child lies motionless. ) How's Jessie been to-day? A. Oh, she's been like that all day, Will. She ain't got anything but a cold, but there don't nothin' she eats seem to suit her. W. It ain't warm enough for her here, Annie. Why don't you have her in the kitchen by the fire? (A. Covers her face with her hands. W. Looks at her a moment, then exits by the inner door. In a moment he returns, his head down.) A. I burned the very last of it this morning, Will. 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE W. (Throwing back his shoulders and trying to speak cheerfully. Now don't worry, Annie. I'll likely get an odd job tomorrow, and get a bushel of coal. As long as Jones is lettin' us have groceries, we'll get along. Onein (Starting and lifting her head, comes toward him timidly.) ill! W. (With the sharpness of anxiety). Well, what now? A. Why, I went in to get some milk for Jessie this afternoon—we ain't been getting much but meal and potatoes and such, you know—and she wouldn't eat 'em, so I went for the milk— and he said—he said—he couldn't let us have any more stuff. (W. Throws up his hand and turns away.) He had a family of his own to keep—and we'd got behind so far—(she pauses and speaks low) we ought to be askin' for help. W. Asking for help. 'A. (Desperately.) Yes, he said that was what the Family Service Society was for, and we ought to go to them—and he'd phone for me, if I couldn't leave Jessie so long. Oh, Will, I felt so awful, I knew how you'd feel, and I said, no, you'd likely get a job today, and I came home. And then—I got a notice that we'd have to pay up the back rent or move. And Jessie woke up and cried for milk—and I went back and told Mr. Jones to call them up. (Will sits down with his face hidden. Annie puts her hand timidly on his shoulder). A. You ain't mad at me, are you, Will? W. What else can we do—unless we jump into the river? (Jumps up and walks around wildly.) That's the place for me. I guess. You'd get along better without me. What good am I anyhow, can't keep my own kid from starving! (He makes for the outer door, seizing his hat. A. Runs to him frightened, catching his arm. Just as he takes the knob, a knock comes from without. He backs away. A. Stands a moment, hand on heart, recovering herself, then she opens the door. Enter Visitor, a bottle of milk in her hand. She turns to A. Smiling.) V. You are Mrs. Davis? I am Ellen Morris, of the Family Service Society. (W. Retreats another step, pulling a chair in front of him.) Your grocer called me up and said you were in trouble, so I came around to see what we could do. (She comes forward to the table, and ignoring the tension in the atmosphere, sets down the milk and her bag, and begins to take off her gloves.) I believe we are going to have rain before night. (Turns to couch.) And the little girl is sick? What is her name? A. (Gulping before she can speak.) Jessie. V. Why, that is my sister's name! The grocer thought she might like some milk, so I just brought some with me. (Goes to couch.) But she's asleep now. What a sweet little thing she is! OUT OF WORK 429 (Comes back and takes a chair.) Now won't you tell me all about it? I'm sure we can find a way out. (A. Comes forward slowly and sits down. W. Motions her to speak. ) A. Why, we were pretty well fixed a couple of years back, but Will got the flu, and he couldn't work for a long spell after. That took all we'd saved, but we kept going, I got a place clerking and Will minded little Jessie, and when he got back to work, we thought we'd get another start. But then little Billy came— we couldn't save any more—I wa'nt well and things was awful high—and he was only a year old—(she breaks down, covers her face with her apron and sobs. ( Pause.) W. We lost him a year ago, and Annie ain't never been well since. Just about then the steel plant closed down, and I've been walkin' the streets every day since—there jest ain't any work. V. You worked in the steel mills then, Mr. Davis? Is there any other kind of work you can do? (Jessie wakes and sits up, she reaches rapturously for the milk on the table. V. Takes up the milk.) A. Wait a minute, I'll get you a glass. (Exit to kitchen, returning with glass. V. Pours out milk and takes it to child, who drinks eagerly, then drops back against her mother who sits on the head of the couch, while V. Leans down over her.) V. Her hands are hot, do you think she has a little fever? Have you seen a doctor? A. The doctor was in yesterday, he said it was only a bad cold, but she was run down, and to give her milk and eggs. Milk and eggs! V. She will be better now, I think. 'And you need coal? We can see to that. Now do you suppose some of your people could help? Do they live near here? (W. Glances at A.) A. I ain't got a soul livin'! My father and mother died when I was just a little mite. We come from England, and I don't know the folks over there. And Will, he might as well not have none either, his father won't help him though he's got a good little business out in Kansas. Think (pointing to Jessie excitedly) this child's grandpa runnin' a grocery, and her cryin' for milk. (Sinks down and hides her face on Jessie's hair.) W. No, no, Annie, you mustn't blame Dad. (Turns to V.) I was a fool them days, lady, I jest wouldn't work. I loafed and ran with the boys. Dad give me chance after chance to work in the store for him, but I wouldn't pay no attention to business, and finally we had a fuss, and I left. (Rises and walks front.) I tell you, since I've had Annie and Jessie to look after, I've seen things different. But it's too late now. (Sits down again.)
V. Have you written to him since you were married?
430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
W. Yes, I wrote after Jessie was born; but I never got no answer. I saw a man from there only last month, and he said Dad was alive and well, only he looked like he was getting old.
V. You were getting along well when you wrote before, it might be different now. Where does he live?
W. In Kansas City, on Highland St., the name's John Davis. But there ain't no use my writing. You don't know Dad, he's awful set.
V. We'll see what we can do, there's always a way out. (Rising.) Now here's an order on the grocer that will keep you going for a few days. (She lays it on the table, W. draws back from it.) And how about your rent?
A. We're paying fifteen dollars here and we're way back on it. They've sent us notice to move. The agent lives right over there on that corner.
V. I'll see him about it. And I'll send in some coal at once, we must keep Jessie warm. (Patting child's head as Annie stands holding her.) Cheer up, times will be better. (A. sets the child down and goes to the table to pick up the order, but drops it as Will speaks).
W. I never thought I'd have to ask for charity.
V. We don't consider this as a gift at all. It's an investment in you, and our returns will be to see Jessie well and strong, and your home happy. I'll be in again in a few days. Goodbye. (Exit.)
A. Goodbye. (Approaches Will.) Will, I can't help feeling better. She was kind now, wasn't she?
W. (Slowly.) Yes, she was. And she didn't seem to look down on a feller either; Annie, I feel most like trying again.
CURTAIN
Scene 2
(Same room in better order. Annie in a cleaner dress, sewing a button on a wrap for Jessie, who leans against her, watching. She finishes, puts wrap on child, and kisses her).
A. There, run along and play, dearie. If you get cold, you come right in to mother. (J. runs out. A. stands looking after her, then shuts the door and comes back to her sewing.) She's pickin' up every day now—and it's only two weeks since the doctor said she'd just missed pneumonia. Oh, I'm so glad, I'm so glad! (Hides her face in her work. Enter W., he goes behind A. and drops a few coins in her lap. She looks up delighted. He shrugs his shoulders.)
W. No great job yet, honey, but the Society put me on the track of this little one. Then—I don't know—it puts some heart into a man to know his wife and kid are warm and fed, and
OUT OF WORK 431
he can buck into things better. (Knock at door, W. opens it, enter V., he shakes hands with her warmly, A. jumps up and greets her.)
A. Why, Miss Morris, it's nice to see you again so soon.
V. And how's Jessie today?
A. She's out playing, she's as well as she can be. Will, you go call Jessie, you know how bad she felt because she missed Miss Morris last time, she'll be tickled to death. (Exit W.) Oh, Miss Morris, that day you come first—
W. (Outside.) Jessie, oh, Jessie!
A. I don't know where we'd a been if there hadn't been somebody like you to turn to. Will, he scared me, I was feared—and now, why, he's a different man. Of course, we ain't out of it yet, and it worries him dreadful that he ain't got a job, but he feels like he had something to stand on.
W. (Outside.) Jessie!
A. And you did it so nice, it didn't seem like we was—beggin'—you helped us just like you was a friend.
V. (Enter W.) We've heard from your father, Mr. Davis. (W. and A. look at each other hopefully.) The office in Kansas City hunted him up, and told him about you, how you felt, and about little Jessie. They sent us this letter for you. (Gets it out of her bag).
W. (Opens and reads, A. looking over his shoulder.) "Dear Will: "Seems like you are having hard luck. Mother never was satisfied after you left, and now she wants you should bring your wife and little girl for a visit. I could give you a job in the store, I guess." [Annie, Annie, he's going to give me a job!] "I'm aiming to send your tickets when I hear from you. I hope you have really settled down. "Your father, John Davis."
V. I'm surely glad you're going to get your new chance. (Enter Jessie, runs to V. and embraces her.) And with this little girl to look after, I know you'll make good.
W. I will that. And I won't forget what you folks have done for us, either. You've just about got us on our feet. I never could have got Dad to give me another chance. Most anybody will throw a feller an old pair of shoes or a basket o' stuff at Christmas, but you folks take the pains to put a man that's down and out where he can take care of himself again, and that's worth doing.
CURTAIN
Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart
What do you mean by budgeting the income? The budget is a place for the division of the income in such a way as to live within that income. It is a proper estimate of all the expenses of the household. One expert on house problems defines it as the process of apportioning your income so that it goes as far as possible and also puts you in possession of what you really want instead of the thing that you choose out of a passing caprice or through momentary carelessness—all of which means greater leeway and greater liberty. If the housewife realizes that in no business can budget making and executing be so simplified and so centralized as in that of the household management, where the budget, the buying, the preparing and distributing are all centered in one person, a better economic adjustment can be made. Perfect economic adjustment requires careful planning and spending, wisdom in selection and care of materials, and thoughtful attention to the demands of the family for social, intellectual, and spiritual life. The latter can never be developed fully under the stress of debt or worry, but with bills paid and physical needs provided for, the way is open for growth spiritually and intellectually. The article on "Family Budgets and the Rural House" in the July number of the Relief Society Magazine will answer your question fully.
What is a spatula and how is it used? Of cooking school and those who are fortunate in having a well equipped kitchen the spatula is an old friend. To the housekeeper who is not acquainted with the long, flexible, double-edged blade, having a handle large enough to handle easy and work with efficiently, the following suggestions are made: The spatula is especially helpful in spreading icings which are apt to harden just a moment too soon. In handling doughs, particularly soft ones, it is almost invaluable. It is the tool par excellence for manipulating omelets, and in turning hot cakes it often entirely supplants the stiff griddle-cake turner. A more general use perhaps is the thorough emptying of the mixing bowls, platters, candy or icing pans. Because of its flexible blade and its easy application to all kinds and conditions of dishes, many uses will constantly be suggested to the proud possessor of a spatula.
Crushed raspberries and slightly bruised mint leaves, added to lemonade, make a refreshing summer drink.
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 433
To wash linens, calicos, percales, or any like material of which there are many pretty colors, make a flour starch with soft water, and wash dresses; this without soap. Rinse in thin, clear starch water, turn wrong side out and hang in shade to dry. This method of washing keeps them like new.—Mrs. H. K. L., Castle Dale, Utah.
On wash day when you find the laundry starch all gone, try using corn starch-made in the same way as the ordinary silver gloss starch. You will find the clothes much easier and smoother to iron, but if corn starch is used too much it tends to make the white clothes yellow.—Mrs. E. H. C., Boulder, Utah.
For my clothespins I make from heavy Cretonne an apron eighteen inches square with pockets extending from lower edge to half way up the apron. I then sew the top of the apron to a wire clothes-hanger which holds it out straight. It is easy to remove the pins and it can be hung over each line as you go from one to the other either hanging or gathering clothes—Mrs. N. W. T., Salt Lake City.
One of the modern conveniences in the laundry is a piece of hose of convenient length attached to a small appliance which can be quickly and easily clamped to the faucet or pump. It saves much lifting of water both in filling and emptying the washer or tubs. The suction, when the faucet is turned, will draw the water from the tub. The hose with just the ordinary clamp is a saving of time and strength.—Mrs. M. P., Ogden, Utah.
For the woman who uses wood or coal to cook with this may prove helpful. A wood box on legs and with castors is much more convenient than one on the floor. It can be easily moved on the porch for filling, and saves tracks on the kitchen floor. It saves much stooping to get the wood, or in cleaning behind it. When painted it adds to the appearance of the kitchen.—Mrs. T. M., Vernal, Utah.
Save all small glass bottles with screw lids and with necks large enough to admit buttons. Place assorted buttons in them. You will find much time is saved when a button is wanted in a hurry.—Mrs. J. P., Abraham, Utah.
Painted olive bottles make very useful and attractive flower vases. Several can be done in a very short time. Especially are these useful when one wants only a few buds on a small luncheon table. They may be painted in any color scheme.—Mrs. A. S., Panaca, Nevada.
Notes From the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
PROGRAM FOR AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1925
(To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences)
DATES
July 18-19—Woodruff, Yellowstone. July 25-26—Curlew, Lethbridge, Lost River, Snowflake. July 30-31—Alberta. August 1-2—Emery, St. Johns, Taylor, Teton, Twin Falls. August 8-9—Big Horn, Blaine, Juab, South Sevier, Wayne. August 15-16—Bannock, Bingham, Blackfoot, Oneida. August 22-23—Bear River, Idaho, Portneuf, South Sanpete, Panguitch. August 26-27—Kanab. August 29-30—Bear Lake, Garfield, Gunnison, Millard. September 12-13—Boise, Minidoka, Montpelier, Parowan, Raft River, San Juan, Roosevelt. September 16-17—Uintah, Young. September 19-20—Duchesne, North Sanpete, San Luis, Star Valley, Union. September 26-27—Carbon, Deseret, Fremont, Hyrum, Morgan, Sevier. October 10-11—Beaver, Benson, Cassia, North Sevier, Tintic. October 17-18—Summit, Wasatch. October 24-25—Malad, Shelley. November 7-8—Burley, Maricopa. November 10-11—Juarez. November 14-15—St. Joseph. November 21-22—Los Angeles, Pocatello, Rigby. November 28-29—Franklin, Moapa. December 12-13—St. George.
Conventions separate from the quarterly conferences are to be held in the following stakes, the dates to be given later in a separate program:
Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Cottonwood, Ensign, Granite, Grant, Jordan, Kolob, Liberty, Logan, Mt. Ogden, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Oquirrh, Palmyra, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Tooele, Utah, Weber.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 435
SCHEDULE OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS AND GENERAL SESSIONS
SATURDAY, 10:00 A. M.—12 NOON—GENERAL SESSION
SATURDAY, 10:30 A. M.—12 NOON—JOINT STAKE BOARD MEETING
(Note: At 10:30 A. M. the auxiliary stake boards and all stake and ward Priesthood authorities will withdraw from the general assembly to the joint stake board meeting. For convenience in leaving the general assembly, it is suggested that Relief Society stake board members sit in a body in a convenient place for leaving the room.)
SATURDAY (TIME TO BE ARRANGED BY RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE PRESIDENT)—INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL BOARD MEMBER AND RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
(President, Counselors, and Secretary-Treasurer.)
SATURDAY, 2:00 P. M. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE AND WARD OFFICERS' MEETING
(Held simultaneously with general session of conference.) All stake and ward officers should be in attendance, also visiting teachers and class leaders. Bishops especially invited. If any of the brethren of the stake are county commissioners, we would be pleased to have them invited to this meeting.
SATURDAY, 7:30 P. M.—STAKE RECEPTION AND DEMONSTRATION
Under direction of stake M. I. A. Committee on Recreation.
SUNDAY, 10:00 A. M.—12 NOON—RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD MEETING
(Held simultaneously with general session devoted to work of Sunday School.) This meeting will be for stake board members only.
SUNDAY, 2:00 P. M.—GENERAL CONFERENCE SESSION
SUNDAY, 7:30 P. M.—GENERAL MEETING UNDER DIRECTION OF M. I. A.
436 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS
SATURDAY, 2:00 P. M. Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers. Including Visiting Teachers and Class Leaders
1. Report of Activities.......... Relief Society Stake President
2. Ward Teaching: a. Ethics for Visiting Teachers................Representative of General Board b. Attitude of Hostess to Teachers.... Stake Board Member c. Ward Questionnaire......... General Board Representative d. Round Table Discussion of Relief Society Problems...General Board Representative
SUNDAY, 10:00 A. M. Relief Society Stake Board
1. Work and Business Meeting: a. How Meeting is Conducted in Each Ward of Stake...Stake Board Member b. Recommendations........ General Board Representative
2. Teachers' Convention......... General Board Representative
3. Questionnaire, Stake......... General Board Representative
WHEAT INTEREST CHECKS
The Presiding Bishop's Office has reported to the General Relief Society office that checks for the yearly wheat interest will be mailed early in July, and has asked that ward presidents see that their checks are cashed at once. The General Board recommends that this request be adhered to, as delay in cashing the checks causes great inconvenience at the Presiding Bishop's Office. There were a number of instances last year when the checks were held indefinitely and finally lost. This necessitated the issuance of duplicate checks and caused much additional work. It is the recommendation of the General Board that the wheat interest be reserved for maternity and health purposes, and excellent reports have been received from many stakes regarding the activities along this line.
Parowan Stake
The winners in the 1924 contest for increased attendance were Parowan, group 1; New Harmony, group 2; Enoch, group 3. The nine wards were divided according to their enrollment. This
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 437
contest will be continued during 1925, and a home study of the Doctrine and Covenants will be an added feature. With wards scattered from five to sixty miles apart, visiting in this stake is not an easy thing to do. However, there is always a fair attendance of officers and members at the monthly union meetings held alternately at Parowan and Cedar City. Very successful bazaars, from both a social and financial standpoint, have been held by a number of the wards during the last year. The majority of the ward organizations in this stake own their own meeting places and are adding furnishings and equipment as opportunity affords. They are also improving their grounds.
Northern States Mission
The following report has been received from the Northern States mission: "On May 3, 1925, the women of the Northern States mission enjoyed a rare treat. President Clarissa S. Williams, Counselor Jennie B. Knight, Secretary Amy Brown Lyman, of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Ruth May Fox, counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A., enroute to Washington, D. C., to attend the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women, stopped off at Chicago, and were the speakers at a meeting held in the Logan Square chapel. About one hundred Relief Society and Mutual Improvement Association members of the three Chicago branches, with representatives from Peru, Indiana; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; South Bend, Indiana; and Detroit, Michigan, were present.
"President Rachel Grant Taylor conducted the meeting, reporting attendance of six branches, also letters of regret from all branches not able to send delegates, on account of distance.
"Each of the visiting officers gave valuable and interesting instructions. President Williams spoke of the great opportunities afforded Relief Society members for self development and for assuming the responsibility of mothering humanity. She stressed conservation of energy and advised that all our thoughts, plans and schemes be tempered with wisdom, such as had been applied in the past as evidenced in the disposition of the various funds that have been raised and brought to profitable and fitting uses. Mrs. Williams could discern that the mission Relief Societies labor under greater difficulties than those of the central stakes of Zion, and expressed great joy and satisfaction that some had come a distance of nearly four hundred miles to attend the meeting.
"Mrs. Lyman spoke interestingly of our relationship with the women's organizations of the world, showing how our constancy and adherence to correct principles is being recognized in national organizations.
"Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Fox expressed their appreciation of
438 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the attendance, and Mrs. Fox spoke encouragingly to the M. I. A. members.
"After the meeting, all of the local women remained to exchange friendly greetings with the visitors. Before resuming their journey eastward, the visitors were entertained at dinner at the mission home."
In co-operation with the aim for the Northern States mission Relief Society temple work, "One day's work for each member enrolled"—and also to arouse an interest in genealogical work in the branch, a "temple day" was held in Detroit on March 10, after one month's campaign of visits and a talk each Sunday on temple work for the dead. The following program was given: Instrumental prelude, "Oh, my Father;" prayer; singing, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation;" talk, "Revelations on Temple Building;" singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning;" talk, "Latter-day Temples;" singing, "We want to see the temple;" Instructions on temple blanks and genealogical records; singing, "Come listen to a prophet's voice;" benediction. The membership of the society is twenty-six, but as a result of this campaign fifty-six names were handed in ready for ordinance work, and $13.85 in cash for temple fund.
Alberta Stake
At the temple sessions nearest to Mother's Day, May 7 and 8, the Alberta stake and ward Relief Society officers and teachers made excursions to the temple. All wards were represented excepting one, which was not represented on account of sickness. Two hundred sixty-eight were in attendance, which is a remarkable showing considering the few numbers in most of the wards.
Snowflake Stake
With a view of encouraging Scripture reading, the stake board outlined a scripture study of the Book of Mormon for wards. This work was checked up by means of a score card. The result for 1924 was: 165 women in the stake read all the chapters in the Book of Mormon to Alma 29 chapter, and at least 133 others did part of the reading. The Society that won the most points last year received a new edition of the Book of Mormon. The same plan will be carried on again this summer with the remaining portion of the book. At the completion of the work, Gospel Doctrine will be presented to the winning Society.
St. George Stake
A very enjoyable social was recently given in honor of the stake presidency by the stake auxiliary organizations, prompted by the stake Relief Society. The affair was held in the Dixie College Gymnasium. All stake officers, past and present, were
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 439
invited, there being upwards of two hundred persons in attendance. A delightful program was furnished by the various organizations, after which a toast, "Our Presidency" was given, eulogizing them for their unselfish and untiring labors for the stake during the past twenty-four years. Each member of the presidency responded. Following the program, dancing was enjoyed, after which refreshments were served.
Uintah Stake
In May, the state health clinic, assisted by the local doctors and county school nurse, held examination for children of pre-school age, at Vernal, Utah, when ninety-nine children were examined. The school nurse will continue follow-up work.
As temple excursions are not feasible from this stake, the Relief Society raises a goodly sum each year for temple work. June is the Relief Society carnival month, when each ward Relief Society gives an entertainment to raise funds for the benefit of maternity and child welfare. At this writing, preparations are well under way for the usual entertainments.
In 1924 and 1925, the stake board offered a prize to the ward having the highest percent of Relief Society teachers' visits made. It was agreed that the ward falling the lowest would entertain the Relief Society officers and teachers of the stake. The first year (1924) the prize was a dozen Relief Society Song Books.
SERVICE
Susan Taylor Jennings.
How can I serve my God, I pray? It must be in some simple way; For down my path has come not fame, A wealth of gold or gilded name.
Then I will serve the best I can; For I can do a kindly deed To my dear neighbor in his need.
Yes, I can turn the clouds about For some sick soul who's down and out, And my proud spirit I can bend So to the poor I'll condescend.
A glad hand clasp, a cheery smile, Ah, these are gifts make life worth while! How can you serve your God, you pray? It must be in some humble way?
To serve your God the best you can, You first must serve your fellow-man.
Guide Lessons for October
LESSON I (First Week in October)
Theology and Testimony
THE ABRAHAMIC DISPENSATION, CONTINUED
PART III—JACOB
A. JACOB, "A NOBLE SPIRIT."
1. Jacob, like Isaac, was a child of promise. The leadership qualities of his spirit were indicated to his mother, by the Lord when he answered her inquiry. See Genesis 25:22-23.
2. Jacob's spiritual heirship to the major blessing was clearly pointed to by the predictions made upon his head by Isaac under the inspiration of the Lord. (See Gen. 27:28, 29, 33, 37.)
B. SPECIAL BLESSINGS RECEIVED BY JACOB.
1. The blessing of leadership by Isaac. (See Gen. 27:28, 29, 33, 37.)
2. The blessing of posterity and possession by Isaac. (See Gen. 28:1-6.)
3. The blessing by the Lord himself followed by Jacob's covenant to pay tithing. (See Gen. 28:11-22.)
4. The blessing wrestled all night for. (Gen. 32:24-30.)
5. The Blessing of a new name and the possessing of the land of Promise repeated by the Lord at Bethel, the place of Jacob's covenant two years before. (Gen. 35:7-15.)
6. The blessing with a promise to make Israel a great nation. (Gen. 46:1-4.) The promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob before this was that of the nations of the earth being blessed through them; but now the blessing of nationality was pronounced. Israel as a nation was to begin in Egypt in fulfilment of Divine promise.
C. BLESSINGS GIVEN BY JACOB IN EGYPT.
1. To Pharaoh: (a) When he first met the king. (Gen. 47:7.) (b) When he left Pharaoh. (Gen. 47:10.)
2. To Joseph's sons Ephraim and Manasseh. (Gen. 48:8-20.)
3. To each of his twelve sons. (Gen. 49:1-27.)
It is important to note the superiority of Judah and Joseph in
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 441
the posterity of Jacob. The history of Israel is full of evidence that Jacob was possessed of the spirit of prophecy when he blessed his posterity. Joseph was surely a fruitful bough whose branches ran over the wall. His posterity people America the land "choice above all other lands."
D. SOME SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF JACOB.
1. He valued spiritual blessings.
2. He called upon the Lord for help in hours of adversity, and acknowledged God as the source of his prosperity. Gen. 31:42; 32:9, 10, 11.)
3. He lived with idolators peacefully and prosperously but never became one of them. (Gen. 35:1, 2, 3, 4.)
4. He was obedient to the Lord and his parents.
5. He was guided by the spirit of inspiration rather than by the wishes of men.
6. Come what would, he never complained against the Lord.
7. He believed in divine promises, did his best for their fulfilment, and trusted in the Lord for the rest.
8. He severely penalized unchastity and the shedding of blood. (Gen. 48:5.)
9. His life, like Adam's ended with blessing his posterity.
E. SOME CONCLUSIONS FOR STUDY.
1. Jacob's early-life nature was an admixture of selfishness, strength, and spirituality. The name "Jacob" means one who takes by the heel or seeks to trip or supplant another. His strength of purpose, and power to achieve gave stability to his nature. His spirituality struggled against selfishness for his strength and prevailed. And the elements of his nature were crystalized into a character to whom God gave the name of Israel—"God persists." The great lesson to be learned from the life of Jacob is that the spiritual life in which God is a source of reference and reverence will so modify and adjust our mixed natures that each will become crystalized character of which it may be said: "More precious than the gold of Ophir." Our part in the process of crystalization must not be just yielding, it must be of the Jacob type—doing and trusting.
2. There was some considerable difference between the "Jacob" bartering for his brother's birth-right and the "Israel" blessing a Pharaoh of Egypt.
F. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. Relate the circumstance through which Jacob became a child of promise.
2. Prove Jacob's obedience to his parents. (Gen. 27:41-46; 28:1-10.)
3. Tell about Jacob's tithing contract with the Lord.
442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
4. Give Laban's testimony concerning the source of his prosperity under Jacob's management. (Gen. 30:25-27.)
5. Give Jacob's own testimony to his wives concerning the secret of his prosperity and protection from injury and their reply. (Gen. 31:1-7, 16.)
6. What was the origin and meaning of the name of Israel and what does it stand for today?
7. What was the significance of the burying all of the pagan relics or souvenirs by Israel (Jacob)?
8. What new feature of theological government did the Lord provide for in giving Jacob twelve sons?
9. What special promise from the Lord was made to Jacob (Israel) just before he went down to Egypt.
10. Tell of Jacob's (Israel's) blessing (a). Pharaoh, (b) Ephraim and Manasseh and his twelve sons, and what is the greatest point in Judah's blessing?
11. Wherein is Joseph's blessing most glorious?
12. What is to be learned concerning a woman's theological privileges by Genesis 25:22, 23?
13. Discuss Jacob's respect for his wives in counseling with them and the ideal confidence of Leah and Rachel in their husband. (Gen. 31:4-7 and 14, 15, 16.)
LESSON II (Second Week in October)
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER A Better and Saner Hallowe'en
Importance of directing instead of repressing the children's activities.
Need of: (a) Understanding a child's idea of right and wrong. (b) Good, wholesome fun.
Parents should know where their children are and what they are doing. Are they destroying their neighbors' property? Do they know the origin and purpose of Hallowe'en? When little ones use jack-o-lanterns make sure they are safe. Serious accidents have happened from the use of paper and pasteboard ones.
If parents would join in the frolics of the night. Children would enjoy it better.
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 443
LESSON III (Third Week in October)
Literature
EDWIN MARKHAM
Edwin Markham is a western poet. He was born in Oregon City, Oregon, April 23, 1853, and reared in the state of California. His father was Samuel Markham, and his mother Elizabeth Winchell Markham. His childhood days were spent on his mother's rancho, near Suisun, California, as the family moved to California when the boy was five years of age. During his boyhood days, he worked at farming, blacksmithing, and at herding sheep and cattle. He attended the San Jose Normal School where he specialized in ancient and modern languages. Later, he continued his studies in other institutions of the west. He married Anna Catherine Murphy, in 1897. For many years he devoted himself to teaching and educational work. He was principal and superintendent of schools in California until 1889, at which time he resigned to devote himself to literary work. He has been a contributor to the newspapers of California and the magazines of the United States since his early boyhood. In his most famous collection "The Man with the Hoe and Other Poems," he states that many of the poems contained therein appeared in Scribners, The Century, The Atlantic and the San Francisco Examiner.
444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It was our good fortune to hear Edwin Markham in a lecture, in 1915. His full face and white hair made him resemble the poet Longfellow. And his complexion brought to mind the well known lines of Dr. Holmes, "And his cheeks were like a rose in the snow." To the great delight of his audience, he made several references, during the evening, to the Man with the Hoe, which is undoubtedly one of the greatest of American poems. Edwin Markham did not ignore the natural beauty about him; he has paid many tributes to the flowers, trees, and birds of his home state, having immortalized the well known California poppy. Yet Edwin Markham has not been interested primarily in nature. His great heart has gone out, above all else, to man, who was given dominion over God's other creations. Among the best known of French painters is Jean Francois Millet. Before Millet, no painter in France had dared to portray the homely life of the peasant on canvas. Millet startled his contemporaries by painting, The Angelus, The Gleaners, Feeding the Birds, and The Man with the Hoe. Then the day came when painter and poet met. Edwin Markham looked into the face of Millet's peasant and the meaning of it all bore in upon his soul with such tremendous force, and stirred the life within him to such depths, that he gave us "The Man with the Hoe," a poem that has been translated into practically every well known European language and also Japanese:
God made man in His own image, in the image of God made He him.—Genesis.
Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground, The emptiness of ages in his face, And on his back the burden of the world. Who made him dead to rapture and despair, A thing that grieves not and that never hopes, Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox? Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw? Whose was the hand that slanted back this brow? Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
Is this the thing the Lord God made and gave To have dominion over sea and land; To trace the stars and search the heavens for power; To feel the passion of Eternity?
Is this the Dream He dreamed who shaped the suns And marked their ways upon the ancient deep? Down all the stretch of hill to its last grief There is no shape more terrible than this— More tongued with censure of the world's blind greed— More filled with signs and portents for the soul— More fraught with danger to the universe.
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 445
What gulfs between him and the seraphim! Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades? What the long reaches of the peaks of song, The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look; Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop; Through this dread shape humanity betrayed, Plundered, profaned, and disinherited, Cries protest to the Judges of the World, A protest that is also prophecy.
O masters, lords and rulers in all lands, Is this the handiwork you give to God, This monstrous thing distorted and soul-quenched? How will you ever straighten up this shape; Touch it again with immortality; Give back the upward looking and the light; Rebuild in it the music and the dream; Make right the unmemorial infamies, Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes?
O, masters, lords and rulers in all lands, How will the Future reckon with this Man? How answer his brute question in that hour When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world? How will it be with kingdoms and with kings— With those who shaped him to the thing he is— When this dumb Terror shall reply to God After the silence of the centuries?
America has in the main been proud of the sterling character of her poets. Mr. Markham deserves to stand beside Longfellow, Lowell, and Bryant, for his poems breathe the same high purpose, the same trust in God, and the same purity of soul as do theirs. As evidence of these characteristics, we include the poem entitled "A Prayer."
Teach me, Father, how to go Softly as the grasses grow; Hush my soul to meet the shock Of the wild world as a rock; But my spirit prop with power, Make as simple as a flower. Let the dry heart fill its cup, Like a poppy looking up; Let life lightly wear her crown, Like a poppy looking down When its heart is filled with dew, And its life begins anew.
Teach me, Father, how to be Kind and patient as a tree, Joyfully the crickets croon Under shady oak at noon; Beetle on his mission bent Tarries in that cooling tent,
446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Let me, also, cheer a spot, Hidden field or garden grot— Place where passing souls can rest On the way and be their best.
The character and work of Abraham Lincoln has always tempted the poet as well as the writer of fiction. Many tributes have been paid the martyred President in verse, but none are nobler, and in none does the verse move with more rhythemic majesty, than in the tribute of Edwin Markham. We can not publish the entire poem in this lesson, we shall include only a few of the choicest lines but should be glad to have the members of the class read the poem in its entirety if they have access to it:
"A man that matched the mountains and compelled The stars to look our way and honor us."

"And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down As when a kingly cedar, green with boughs, Goes down with a great shout upon the hills, And leaves a lonesome place against the sky."
Howard Willard Cook says, "Mr. Markham has never been a prolific writer as poets today go, but his verse has attained a distinction and fineness that some of our younger writers might do well to pattern from." California, like Indiana, saw fit to honor her chief poet by inaugurating a Markham Evening. April 30 has been set aside as Markham Evening.
Markham has the voice and the soul of the poet. This voice speaks through such poems as, The Poet, Joy of Morning and The Joy of the Hills. Because of the freedom and joy breathed through the lines in The Joy of the Hills, we conclude our lesson with it:
I ride on the mountain tops, I ride, I have found my life and am satisfied, Onward I ride in the blowing oats, Checking the field-larks' rippling notes— Lightly I sweep From steep to steep: Over my head through the branches high Come glimpses of a rushing sky; The tall oats brush my horse's flanks; Wild poppies crowd on the sunny banks; A bee booms out of the scented grass; A jay laughs with me as I pass.
I ride on the hills, I forgive, I forget Life's hoard of regret— All the terror and pain Of the chafing chain. Grind on, O cities, grind;
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 447
I leave you a blur behind, I am lifted, elate—the skies expand; Here the world's heaped gold in a pile of sand. Let them weary and work in their narrow walls; I ride with the voices of waterfalls! I swing on as one in a dream, I swing Down the airy hollows, I shout, I sing; The world is gone like an empty word; My body's a bough in the wind, my heart a bird!
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. It is very evident that "The Man with the Hoe" is a protest poem; against what, in the main, is the protest hurled?
2. What has the poet reference to when he speaks of "The light within this brain."
3. Explain as best you can these verses, "What gulfs between him and the Seraphim!" "Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him are Plato and the swing of Pleiades?" "What the long reaches of the peaks of song, The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?"
4. The class teacher should be careful to look up the meaning of any words in the poem that may not be understood.
5. Discuss the joy of contact with the hills. Do you feel much as the poet feels when you are in the hills?
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in October)
Social Service
THE CARE OF THE AGED
As the individual passes through the different periods of life—infancy, childhood, youth, maturity and old age—he must adapt himself to the new situations and the new requirements made of him. During the years of maturity, he realizes his full powers, and gains a measure of stability and security. During this period the individual's earning capacity is at its height and at this time, too, he usually establishes a home and achieves some of the other goals to which he has been striving. He perhaps meets some failures and disappointments but with his mental and physical energies at their best, he is usually able to transcend these defeats and sorrows. It is difficult for men and women to realize that the strength and ability of maturity are not permanent powers. Before many years, the most active intelligence loses some of its alertness; the strongest physique becomes weakened and less vigorous; the skilled musician and the gifted writer both lose some of their genius as they pass from maturity to old age.
448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The transition from the period of strength and power to a less strenuous and a less active career is a difficult one to make. It is often an unhappy moment when an individual realizes that he must relinquish his place in the affairs of the world and resign himself to comparative idleness and inactivity. Perhaps the most difficult adjustment that life requires in the career of each individual is the adjustment to old age and its accompanying infirmities. It is often a difficult matter for younger people to understand the problems of their elders. Elderly people frequently present some sort of problem both within the home circle and to social workers. It is probable that the main source of these difficulties lies in the fact that the younger generation does not understand the outlook and the emotions of the elderly persons. In order to keep the person in declining years from feeling defeated and futile, it is necessary to find for him some interest and some expression which will compensate him for the place he has lost in affairs of home and business. It may be some light work, reading, or some activity in the community or church. It must be remembered that elderly people, as in the case of children and adults, must be considered individually. Each individual has his particular interests, his particular friends, and his own ideas as to how to spend his time. It is often quite a mistake to plan for an elderly person without consulting his ideas and his desires. More attention must be given to physical care as old age approaches. Suitable living quarters and adequate food, and necessary medical and nursing care, should be a minimum standard that the community sets for the care of its aged. It is not uncommon to find a lone elderly man or woman, living in a comfortless room, receiving no care and attention. It is true that it is often difficult to persuade an elderly person, accustomed to a particular environment, to move. But usually, if an opportunity to live in more comfortable circumstances is offered, and the arguments in favor of the prospective change are tactfully presented, the hesitancy and unwillingness are overcome. Because of the impaired health and decreasing activity, elderly people sometimes have serious economic problems to meet. Even when an elderly person has savings, he is reluctant to spend all he has, for he never wishes to become entirely dependent. He is therefore often very reticent, even to his family and closest friends, about his finances. Neighbors and social agencies sometimes care for an elderly person for years, without knowing that the person may have a substantial bank account or valuable property. Considering that the aged need proper physical and adequate financial care, and that they should be associated as pleasantly as possible with their main lifelong interests—their business,
LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 449
old friends, and their family—it is evident that it is important to understand each individual person and his problems. Elderly persons have a deep affection for their home. "Home," as one of our contemporary poets says, "is where you bring your children up." The house and the neighborhood where the busiest, happiest years were spent, have a strong hold on the interests and emotions of the aged, and it is usually a sorrowful day when it is necessary to break away from the old surroundings. It is perhaps better for an elderly couple, or an elderly person, to remain in the old environment, if practical from a financial standpoint, and if the proper physical care can be provided. If it is not feasible nor desirable for elderly persons to live in the old home or neighborhood, perhaps the next best plan is to have them live with grown sons or daughters. It is regrettable that such a plan is not always successful, largely because the children fail to understand and respect the position of their parents. It should be unnecessary to mention that the elderly person should not be made to feel dependent and unwelcome. The responsibility children owe their parents is too obvious to need discussion, and children should be as willing and eager to care for parents in their declining years, as the parents were to struggle and sacrifice for the children. When it is not possible to maintain an elderly person either in his own home or with his own people, it may be advisable to find a pleasant boarding house for him. A boarding home usually provides the necessary physical care and besides gives the person a feeling of belonging to a home. He receives a friendly interest that does much to make his days agreeable. Many of our elderly people are cared for in private or public institutions. Institutional care is oftentimes necessary and many elderly people enjoy the comforts of such group life and the company of their associates. Those who are familiar with institutional life know that visits or letters from old acquaintances and friends are events of importance to them. Elderly relatives or friends deserve any attention and kindness that can be extended them. Reference: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 175-192. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Why is it difficult to adjust to old age? Ae Why do elderly people like to remain in their fo surroundings? 3. When is it advisable for elderly people to remain in old environment? When is it advisable to have them move? 4. Why should children assume the financial responsibility for the care of their parents? 5. Why are parents sometimes unhappy living with their married children? ELECTRIC COOKING No Ashes—No Soot—No Smoke— No Fumes COSTS LESS UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service (— The BEST You've Tasted! Surprise the family by serving Pierce's Pork and Beans. Tender, golden beans, in steaming hot, savory tomato sauce made from Utah's choicest tomatoes. UTAH CANNING CO. "Ogden Since 1888" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine And several other good comics. KATHLEEN KAYE And the Heartitorium department. DOROTHY DIX The world's most widely read newspaper writer. These and many other services and features appear only in Are You a Subscriber? A Dividend of 10% to all paid in advance subscribers. Send your order today. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PHONE WAS. 550 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful Hose for wear Per Bair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs................$5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair …$1.50 Box of Three Pairs..............$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair...... $1.50 Box of Three Pairs............$4.25  Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned very durable. All colors. Per Pair $1.00 Box of  Three Pairs.........$2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Snowcroft’s Blue Pine Extracts Spices, The Pick of the Season Full  o Flavor Shelled Walnuts VACUUM SEALED | The Pick of the Season When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. XII SEPTEMBER, 1925 No. 9 CONTENTS The Farmer's Wife Writes a Poem..............  Annie Pike Greenwood 451 Lake Phoebe (Big Cottonwood Canyon)........ Alfred Lambourne Frontispiece The Bible and Emily Post.... Agnes Bostonne 453 Be Patient Little Flock... Theodore E. Curtis 458 A Tribute to John J. McClellan... Oi George W. Middleton 459 Obscurity. Bertha A. Kleinman 461 Editorial—The Bible 462 William Jennings Bryan...................... 463 The National Conference of Social Work...... 463 Baby Wear............... Vilate Elliot 465 Molly Crossman Breaks a Tradition of Byfield Elsie C. Carroll 467 Beatitudes ................ Lula Greene Richards 475 The Editor Abroad............ Alice L. Reynolds 476 Humility Elsie E. Barrett 480 Calories for Safety................ Jean Cox 481 Of Interest to Women............ Lalene H. Hart 486 A Ripe Peach............ Ivy Houtz Woolley 488 Notes From the Field........ Amy Brown Lyman 489 Guide Lessons for Novembev............... 494, Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—l5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Salt Lake City, Utah For our success we are indebted to our friends Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 65 West First South  Call Your - 7AM Nearest CANDY-CAKE PUNCHES Our 30c or deliciously, different | 50 Special SL GO VIA  SAN FRANCISCO  TO ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP $49.00 Southern Pacific Lines PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY. GOOD RETURNING OCTOBER 31, 1925. For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write. P. BANCROFT, General Agent. 41 South Main Street. Wasatch 3008 Wasatch 3078. IN HEALTH Not in books but in MILK you will find the secret of Health. We offer the city's finest milk and cream—as the majority of your neighbors will tell you. CLOVER LEAF DAIRY When Buying Mention Reltef Society Magazine PHONE WAS.3223 159 West Ist South Brick Wasatch 2177 ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. FACTORY-MADE Children's Allovers Khaki and Khaki and White-Backed Peggy Clothes, Denim fer Dutch Kut, for Boys— Girls— The Famous Mountaineer Overalls Give Splendid Satisfaction OTHERS can determine to a great extent what kind of books their children read. Put good books before your children, and they'll learn to read good books. Let us help you select the "good books" Money for Deseret Book Home Building 44 Kast South Temple Salt Lake City P. O. Box 1793 2 XS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Company "Ask us about it" — "Regularity of attendance, faithful attention to studies and EXEMPLARY PERSONAL CONDUCT on the part of students are insisted upon. At all times by the administrative bodies of the College." Excerpt from The College Catalog. The faculty of the U. A. C. Conceives its duty to its students to include moral and spiritual guidance as well as intellectual development. For this reason parents wisely select the Institution as a most fitting place to send their children. FALL QUARTER OPENS SEPTEMBER 28th Send for catalog and illustrated circular Utah Agricultural College LOGAN, UTAH The Reliable Mail Order House 1069 E. 2ist SOUTH Price List for Fall and Winter 1925-26 WE HAVE NO AGENTS, BUY DIRECT AND SAVE FROM 25% TO 30% No. 51 L. D. S. Garments Fine Rib only in L. D. S. New Style..........$1.25 Any of the following numbers can be made up in EITHER NEW or OLD STYLE L. D.S. GARMENT or MEN'S or LADIES' Union Suits. No. 50 Flat Weave No. 58 Heavy Unbleached 2.25l No. 52 Fine Rib $1.50 No. 60 Heavy Bleached $2.25 No. 70 1/2 Wool $4.25 No. 54 Bleached Cotton $1.75 No. 64 Lisle $2.25 No. 73 A Wool $1.75 $2.25 5.50 No. 56 Unbleached $1.75 No. 66 Merc $2.75 No. 74 Silk and Wool  $7.00 For MEN'S Union Suits ONLY No. 92 All Worsted Wool Grey.............. $ 9.50 All Wool Blankets 5 lb. Double 66-80 8.50 All Wool Overcoats 18.50 All Wool Men's Sweater Coats 6.25 All Wool Men's Shirts 5.75 If you are not perfectly satisfied with any of our goods, we refund the money WRITE FOR SAMPLES Why Pay More For Ladies' Silk Hose When You Can Get A Pure Silk Hose in Any Shade for $1.00 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 96 All Worsted Wool Black........ 9.50  Competent Workers  Are Well Paid There is dignity, satisfaction and financial reward in a good office position. Our courses qualify you in a short time for one of these most desirable places. Let us show you what our graduates have done and are doing. Let us prove the value of our training. Fall Term Begins September 8 Call or Write Now! L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH And Here's September! This is the best month of the year for putting in your supply of coal. It comes to you better prepared and your dealer is better able to make prompt delivery. Order CLEAR CREEK or CASTLE GATE coal today. UTAH FUEL CO. Judge Building, Salt Lake City Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits for Men and Women' Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p.m. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 23 Bishop's Building - Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask for one of our elders describing the different services we offer. LAUNDRY | Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.. (RENT a PIANO) Salt Lake City Fall Bulb S Special Trial Order Offer For The Window Garden 2 Calla Lilies Ass't 3 Purity Freesias: 3 Rainbow Colored Freesias 6 Grant White Narcissus; Regular Value of above collection. $1.25 Trial Order offer 75c postpaid These bulbs are for indoor culture and are now ready for planting. Some of them will bloom within 6 weeks. Full Cultural Directions with each Order. Bulbs and Plants for Outdoor will be ready in September and October. Write for a free Catalog Porter-Walton Co Seed and Nursery Specialists. Salt Lake City. Rent a Piano. In Salt Lake City or Nearby. Apply all Rent on Later Purchase. "We won't buy till we get our new home.” Or “we won’t buy ** if the children take their lessons.” These are common excuses" we meet—but both objections are now obliterated by our easy rental plan. Come in—see. Us about it. No obligation. Daynes-Beebe Music Co SALT LAKE CITY Older THAN THE STATE OF Utah In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience. We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at 260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Salt Lake City Telephones: Was. 5132 and Hyland 180 planting will be ready in September and October. Write for Free Catalog Ogden, 466 24th St. Telephone 821-W The Farmer's Wife Writes a Poem Annie Pike Greenwood When I was young, I used to write—and so I shall again— (But I must start the fire at once, for dinner for the men.) I'll write about last night—the clouds were billowing up the sky (I cannot get the oven hot enough to bake this pie.) The moon was like a wistful bride, so tender and so true— (These biscuits will be just the thing to serve with chicken stew.) As through the aisle of clouds she went, her veil a floating mist— (Barb-wire, Joe? Don't cry, my boy,—I'll idoine your wrist. ) Where was Il?—When I wash these towels, and mix that Batch of dough, And wash the dinner dishes, sweep and mop, and when I hoe The garden, churn the butter, bake a cake, and when I sew These sugar sacks into a dress, and that new shirt for Joe, And iron these clothes, and make some jam, and help the men to mow,— We cannot get the help we need to cut the hay, you know— And when I've staked tomato plants so that the wind can't blow Them over—then if it isn't time to cook again, I'll surely go And write that poem! Lake Phoebe, Big Cottonwood CANYON ALFRED LAMBOURNE. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII SEPTEMBER, 1925 No. 9 The Bible and Emily Post By Agnes Bostonne If only there were more Christianity in the world there would be less need of the numerous books on etiquette. Even Emily Post's, the latest and best of them all, would be useless. But inasmuch as we are slow in putting into daily use the Christian virtues of kind-heartedness and thoughtfulness for others we have to go to libraries or write to newspapers to find out how courtesy and love demand that we should treat our fellowmen. The books most in demand in all city libraries are those on etiquette. In the Cincinnati public library, the first instruction given to the library student is the location of the shelf on which such books are kept. Long experience has shown that they will be in daily and hourly demand. One of Mr. Hearst's most popular departments in the New York Journal, a paper of a daily circulation of over a million, is the one to which any reader is free to write for advice on matters of politeness. A great benefactor of mankind is Ruth Ashmore, in the Ladies' Home Journal, who for years gave most sensible advice to young women and their mothers on the social conduct of life. The undying demand of library, newspaper, and magazine readers, for first aid to the so-called ignorant and ill-bred is a libel on our every day Christianity. Etiquette means. Nothing but a ticket, putting the right brand or ticket on ourselves; politeness is nothing but a Greek word for citified manners, manners that mark emancipation from the country bumpkin; courtesy is nothing but a French word which indicates the way that royal people treat one another; that is, the way people conduct themselves at Court; while good breeding is a superb old Saxon word for a person who has cultivated manners; that is, who has given time and thought to his daily conduct and so instinctively has grown into the habit of well developed consideration of the human rights of others. Now we certainly all have received the Christian brand from our Church; we have
454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the Christian polish or politeness that distinguishes us from the beast of the field; we have, supposedly, noble, royal Christian souls, and we have had, from our childhood up, the habit of Christian culture and breeding. But in spite of all this we keep calling for books of etiquette and advice from Mr. Hearst in matters in which the Christian promptings of our heart should reign alone. If we listened to these promptings we should write more letters. All of us have had friends leave for a foreign mission and yet the steamer letter is the rarest letter that we write. Etiquette as well as friendship demands that we make some recognition of the new dignity of our missionary friend. He has been exalted to the rank of a world traveler, a world student and a world teacher. He sees around him when he arrives on the steamer his fellow passengers with stacks of mail and wonders why so few of his home people have had the thoughtfulness to wish him god speed in writing, to recognize his new worth, even to flatter his self-esteem in his new calling. He wonders why his home town people have not had the Christian impulse to treat him to letters as liberally as his fellow passengers have been treated by their friends. You can take it as a rule of life, upheld by worldly etiquette and Christian feeling, that it is your duty to write a steamer letter to any friend or acquaintance of yours who sails for Europe for the first time. Find out the date of his sailing and the name of his ship and port and then write him the happiest, most joyous, most newsy, most unselfish, most human and congratulatory letter you know how to compose, and he will send you warm waves of grateful feeling every day from the Atlantic as he reads and re-reads your letter. Steamer letters are read to pieces, and those who get them have always time to answer them, for an ocean voyage is the most leisurely interval in a man's life. The most elementary Christian impulse we have is that of gratitude for kindness. We all think we know enough to say thank you, at least, and yet there are many who put off or neglect entirely this most Christian duty, or what is almost as bad their manner of thanking lacks distinction and grace. This is bad enough in a man, but unpardonable in a woman. A young girl announced her engagement one Christmas. All her fiance's men friends showed her courtesies and bade her welcome to their friendship. Some who were strangers sent flowers to show their congratulations. The girl, however, instead of writing a note of thanks to these strangers sent verbal thanks by her husband-to-be. She should have had Christianity enough, even if deficient in good breeding, to think out for herself that these men friends wished to be her friends, that they were giving her evidence of
THE BIBLE AND EMILY POST 455
their kindly feeling toward her and that the occasion demanded of her a formal recognition of their kindness. They had exerted themselves to be kind and thoughtful to her, why should she not at least exert herself to the point of writing a note. The same principle holds true of brides. Every wedding present from outside the family should have its note of thanks. Even if the bride has never seen the giver she must write him and thus show Christian gratitude for his kindness and joy at the opportunity of getting to know, even if only by letter, her husband's friends. A woman, especially a bride, is judged by her notes. A bride came to our town once and waited about two months before she wrote her wedding thank-you's. We knew just where to place that bride socially. Her whole past history was in that note. The long waiting meant that she was ill-bred or an imperfect Christian, the two terms are synonymous, while the lack of personality in the note when it did come indicated that both in English and in good taste her training had been defective. Some people will even wait weeks to say thanks for your Christmas gifts, in spite of the fact that telephones and mails are constantly at their service. A gift from a distance has to receive a written thank-you and the quicker it is sent the more appreciation it shows. The importance of the note with strangers is well illustrated in one of Inez Haynes Irwin's stories. A young brother has asked and received permission to bring home to dinner a young woman whose acquaintance he has just made and whom his orphan sisters do not yet know. His conversation is most revealing. "I'm going to see her tonight," Roland went on. "I'll invite her. "Well, she's a queer kind of a girl, Roly, if she'd come on your invitation,' Ann remarked in a superior tone. 'Wait, I'll write her a note." After writing the note. "There." she said at last in a tone of satisfaction, "I'll read it. 'My dear Miss Barton: My sisters and I will be delighted if you will dine informally with us Sunday the eighteenth. Dinner is served at two o'clock. Very Sincerely yours, Ann Ollivant.' How's that?" "Just right," approved her sister. "There, now I guess she'll know we are nice people," said Ann with satisfaction, sealing it and handing it to her brother. Ann was right. She and her sisters were nice people and that for many reasons. They were willing to entertain their brother's girl friend, even if she was a stranger. Being women they knew instinctively that no woman wishes to dine in another woman's house without a special invitation from the lady of the house. Some men feel the same way and wonder why father or brother always invites them to dinner, and never the mother. Furthermore the written note left no ambiguity as to time or date of the dinner and it was cordial, but not excessively so. It was a most Christian act from every point of view, especially as regards thoughtful consideration of the stranger. A good illustration of how closely related are Christian consideration and etiquette may be seen from the following invitation recently written by a college graduate in the name of her club. The Woman's Club of X—most cordially invites you and your partner to be present at a Dancing Party to be given Monday evening, May the Fifth, at the Community Hall. Sincerely, Mary K. Bostonne. This invitation sins from the etiquette point of view because it begins in the third person, switches to the second, and ends in the first. Most of us would say, What if it does! Good taste will answer that a hodge podge is always objectionable, that we want a man to be a real man, a woman a genuine woman and not half man and half woman. Christian consideration for the amour propre of the guest will answer that the only reason you have for knowing that the invitation is for you is the word, "you" which might mean anyone who happened to get it. If the invitation had read invites "Mr. A and his partner," or "Mrs. B. And her partner," then there would be no uncertainty. Then again the starting in the Club's name and ending with a personal name makes the recipient wonder to whom he is indebted, to the Club or to the one who signs her name. The gift without the giver is bare and Christianity demands that we let a guest know who is inviting him in order that he may be sure of a welcome. An admirable feature of the invitation, however, is that the letters R. S. V. P., which request a reply, are not written with it. The most elementary kind of thoughtful regard for a hostess will make us accept or decline immediately her invitation so that she may know we are grateful for her attention to us and also so that she may make her plans accordingly. And yet such are the bad manners of the day, or rather the lack of the Christian spirit, that rarely do you find these letters lacking on an invitation. And good reason why. People know that they will get no answer to their invitation unless memories are jogged with a request for an answer. It is a woman's Christian duty to have something to say to the visiting stranger as well as to write notes, and when talking to the stranger good breeding and Christian charity demand that she talks on subjects that will interest the stranger as well as
THE BIBLE AND EMILY POST 457
herself. A Utah girl studying music in Boston was recently invited to spend the day with strangers who wished to show her kindness and get to know the girl. They did both. The girl was very quiet, and like all shy people, very self centered. "The quietest person I ever met," was the verdict of her hostess. "And yet," she went on, "when I asked her about her music she woke up and talked about it in a most interesting way. But she stayed with me all day and never showed the slightest interest in me. I wonder if all young people are so egocentric." Sooner or later that musical student has got to learn that she must give as well as take, if she is to play the part of a true Christian in Society. For a few years people will be interested in her because she is young and has talent; but even though her talent may be great, it will never be great enough for. Her to occupy the center of the stage all the time, in private as well as in public life. Christian solicitude for the other person is never out of place. It demands that you as hostess for a club meeting at your house should see that the lecturer has a convenient place to stand as well as a table to put his papers and books on. Even a glass of water within reach might make for his comfort and that of his hearers. One Utah professor who has been talking to women's clubs for nearly twenty years says that only three times has he ever found these courtesies in private homes. Talking in a private house is bad enough, under the best circumstances, as the speaker has to send his voice into two or three rooms at once, can see only part of his audience and therefore cannot tell by their mobile faces whether he is boring them or not, and as he is usually wise enough to arrive at least a quarter of an hour late so that his talk may not be interrupted by the late arrival of club members, usually the only available corners left for him are the piano stool or the fire place. Here again a vibrating Christian chord in the soul of the hostess would have avoided much discomfort. She could just as well arrange the seating of her guests so that they would not make a circular funeral audience, but every chair could be placed so as to face the speaker. She might even consult the speaker the day before as to his preferences. Once a club hostess did this, telling the speaker at the same time that she was glad to welcome him to her house; and the speaker, almost speechless at the unwonted thoughtfulness and good breeding shown him, could only murmur to his hostess, "You are a true Christian." As for unpunctuality in social engagements, we should like to invent a special inferno for negligent late comers. It is hard both on hostess and guest as the following experience will show. Two ladies who were once visiting in a college town were invited
458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to a lunch at two, to be followed by a social afternoon. In their ignorance of the custom of the country, and having a sacred respect for dinner engagements, they arrived at the house promptly at two with empty stomachs. They were the first to get there. About two-thirty a few others came drifting in and by three-thirty when about forty had arrived and the lunch was served, it was very hard for the two strangers to eat like perfect ladies. Inside, they were ravenous beasts. They learned that afternoon that a two o'clock lunch in that town meant three o'clock at the earliest, simply because the community had fallen into such unChristian ways that no hostess had ever been able to assemble her guests at a definite time. They also discovered that all the other guests had lunched before coming. Such customs seem barbaric to the stranger as well as a sinful waste of time. The whole scheme of social intercourse needs no book of etiquette as long as you have the Bible. Searching the Scriptures is the beginning and basis of applied Christianity and Christianity rightly directed bringeth forth good breeding. The Christian golden rule of getting the other man's point of view, of thinking of the greatest good to the greatest number, of cultivating the Christian impulses of generosity and respect for the rights of others, this, more than all else, will make for the highest form of good breeding. It will prevent us from being coldly indifferent to others in matters of gratitude. It will help keep us in that golden mean which knows no vulgar excess. Above all it will give us Christian courage which will not allow us to be shy and self centered, but will make us concentrate so much on the happiness of others that we shall become forgetful of self. Some college girls who had never been in a large city hotel once asked a dean of women how they should behave, how hotel affairs are conducted. The wise dean replied with the Biblical quotations that all things must be done decently and in order and therefore the hotel has a central office and bell boys; and that the laborer is worthy of his hire and therefore if a hotel employee takes unusual trouble for you it is customary to reward him with a tip.
Be Patient, Little Flock
Be patient little flock, and know That I am near, that every wrong You suffer weakeneth the foe And makes the saints who suffer strong.
Be patient just a little while Thy woes are mine! I am the Lord. Today's a day of trust and trial. Tomorrow cometh the reward.
Theodore E. Curtis
A Tribute to John J. McClellan
By George W. Middleton
For genius is justified of all her children, and the way of the genius is not the way of ordinary men. If the genius should have any eccentricities, we should pardon him, because in him nature has specialized on some lines, and fitted him for a particular purpose. There is an impelling force within him which carries him forward to his destiny in the face of all obstacles. The isolation of remote islands, or of spots in the great desert, where life is reduced to its most meager dimensions, are no barriers to the mandates of genius. Somehow it surmounts all obstacles, and carries its favored son to his destined goal. The subject of this sketch, Prof. John J. McClellan, was a genius. He was born in Payson, Central Utah, fifty one years ago. In his early childhood he followed the modest ways that were incident to a farming community, and betook himself to the tasks of that station as other boys did. But soon he felt the motion of a hidden fire within, and began to manifest that genius which was one day to make him one of the greatest organists of his time, and carry him far from his native state to meet the great ones of the earth in other climes, and touch their souls with his divine melody. To a soul attuned as he was to the aesthetic side of life, there was inspiration in the great towering mountains which flanked the valley of his native heath. The birds of the springtime poured their melodies into his responsive ears; the flowers upon the hillside added their mute appeals, but most of all a childhood home where there was sympathy, stood back of him. It is the luck of some women in the great lottery of life to be the mother of genius, and that is perhaps the climax of a woman's satisfaction. It is particularly fortunate if, as in this case, the mother rises to the situation, and understands the day of her visitation, when the divine messenger is to select from among the generation of men one of her family circle to be honored. The loyal backing of a sympathetic mother is one of the greatest incentives in life for effort. Nature called, and a great soul answered, and the world paid heed. Prof. John J. McClellan loved music from his cradle bed, and the passion grew upon him with the developing years. It is said that he built a pipe organ out of corn stalks when he was a boy at the farm. He was permitted to hear the great
460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tabernacle organ in Salt Lake City, and then a dream came into his life, and a resolution to make that dream come true. At the early age of seventeen he had so far manifested his natural bent, that his people decided to send him to the music school of the university of Michigan at Ann Arbor. Here he came under the tuition of such masters as Platt and Jonas and made rapid strides. By one of his professors he was detailed to assist in the musical program of the world's fair of Chicago in 1893. Some years later he studied under Xavier, Scharwenka, and Jedliczka in Berlin. So that he had ample training from the technical standpoint. Returning to Utah in 1900 he was made organist to the "Mormon" tabernacle, which position he held until the time of his death. It was he who instituted the method of free organ recitals for the public, which has since become popular through the United States. It was here that Prof. McClellan got his true pace and thousands of people, each year from all climes and countries came under the magic spell of his genius. With the great organ of the tabernacle his name will ever be associated. Its gentlest whispers were a revelation of the refinement of his aesthetic soul and its mighty crescendos, which shook the very earth, were a manifestation of that hidden fire within, which must of necessity find an outlet to relieve the tension. It is no exaggeration to say that he stirred the souls of men to their very depths, and from the organ as a center his fame radiated to the ends of the earth. Kings and queens were among the multitude who came here to pay homage to his genius, and went forth to sing his praises. His activities in musical centers extended far beyond the confines of his native state. He gave successful recitals at three world fairs, and at many of the leading cities of America. As composer he is best known by his Irrigation Ode, which was widely commended, though he has to his credit very many less pretentious compositions. In person John J. McClellan was a man of commanding appearance. He had the manners of a Chesterfield, and the simple confiding sincerity of a child. The great outpouring of people which packed the tabernacle to its limit at his funeral was evidence of the love and respect in which he was held. The sympathy of the whole community goes out to his very interesting family.
OBSCURITY
Valleys rich with ripened acres, Billowing the tawny plain, Budding fields and fertile mesas, Armied deep with hosts of grain, Thine a Nation's wealth in keeping, But no less thy own fair reaping, Are the blossoms in the furrows Straining upward through the rain.
Sloping hills and purple vintage, Triumph of the autumn days, Cradled in the pride of monarchs, As the sheaves amid the haze— Thine the worth yet mid thy teeming, One who utters not the meaning, Turns to gold the frailest tendril 'Mong the tassels of the maize.
Martyrs 'mid the world's vast tumult, Heroes of medieval lore, Beacons ye to gild the cause-ways For a million hosts and more— Yours the light on fame's broad pages, But the breath that moves the ages Is the hope that plants the valleys Daily, yearly, evermore!
Bertha A. Kleinman, Mesa, Arizona
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elsie B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XII SEPTEMBER, 1925 No. 9
The Bible
Members of the present generation know more about the Bible as a literary product than other generations have known. The series of books on the Bible as literature, written by Prof. Richard Green Moulton, has done much to quicken the conscience of the English speaking people in this respect. Yet there are periods of time behind us when people had a more intimate knowledge of the Bible than we have. So thorough was their acquaintance with the book that all the writings of the day seemed to take on a beauty of form and majesty of movement characteristic of Bible literature. We can never forget the fact that the age that produced Shakespeare, the greatest of all our British writers of drama, and Milton, the greatest of our English epic poets, also gave us the inimitable King James translation of the Bible. We were not a little startled some time ago to hear one of the guest professors of the summer, in one of our colleges, state that the oaths used by the Elizabethan dramatists show a more intimate knowledge of the Bible than our serious writings of today. Whatever be the merit of the books of today, whatever be the line of information imparted, the Bible must always remain the Book of all books. It is a reservoir of information on an infinite number of subjects, and is a pattern of beauty and finish in the realm of artistic letters. As bread is to our diet, as sunshine is to plant life, so is the
EDITORIAL 463
Bible in the realm of books. It is the chiefest and best, and for it there can be no substitute.
William Jennings Bryan
No woman's journal, no religious magazine, can be silent on the death of William Jennings Bryan, least of all a journal that champions the cause both of woman and of religion. Mr. Bryan advocated Woman's Suffrage long before it became a popular cause with any political party that hoped to win by putting it into its platform. And he advocated it, not because he thought it would win him votes in a political campaign, but because it was inherently right, because it would be an act of simple justice to woman. As for the other, he was a champion of the Bible in an age when that Book is losing its influence as a religious guide. "The Bible is good enough for me," were almost his last words. His enemies charged that he believed that volume literally, but this was not true. He believed what it says of God, of the immortality of the soul, and of another life, because divine revelation is the only means by which man can learn of these things. He believed God to be a God of power, interested in His creatures here below—not a mere machinelike influence ignoring man and his aims. Also he believed Him to be a personage, after whose image man was made. Bryan's last passionate appeal for the truths of the Holy Scriptures, together with the dramatic manner in which he passed away, will do much to brace timid belief that is on the fence these days and the days to come.
The National Council of Social Work
In his presidential address at the opening session of the National Conference of Social Work, William J. Norton, of Detroit, upheld love as the mainspring of social work. Love he described as the "thin film of protection between the wheels of life which lubricates them and keeps the whole machine from burning out in the merciless friction of living," as the force which "lifts man from the plane of the beasts and stretches his stature upward until he can see and hear God." The same theme expressed in terms of more tolerance and forbearance, less race prejudice, greater protection for childhood and youth, better ways and means of promoting all phases of
464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
human welfare, ran through the eleven sections of the conference. This was the fifty-second annual meeting of the Conference of Social Work. It was held at Denver, Colorado, June 10-17, 1925. Many noted educators, physicians, judges, statesmen and sociologists appeared on the programs of the various meetings. Utah contributed two speakers to the conference—President Franklin S. Harris of the Brigham Young University, Provo, who, says the July issue of the "Survey," "made a strong plea for mutual forbearance and understanding;" Miss Adaline Buffington, general secretary Charities Organization Society, Salt Lake City, who spoke on the "Automobile Migrant" And whose discussion of the subject called forth much favorable comment. On the program of the general sessions were such subjects as: "The Menace of Racial and Religious Intolerance," the "Child Labor Amendment," "What Shall We Do About War," "Social Aspects of the Japanese Question." The conference was divided into eleven divisions as follows: Children, Delinquents and Correction, Health, The Family, Industrial and Economic Problems, Neighborhood and Community Life, Mental Hygiene, and so on. The status of women in the new profession of social work and the quality of the leadership they have to contribute was borne out by the election of Miss Gertrude Vaile, a native of Colorado and secretary of the Department of Charities and Corrections of that state, to the presidency; and the election of Dr. Miriam Van Waters, referee of the Juvenile Court of Los Angeles, to the vice-presidency. Such women as Jane Addams, Grace Abbott, Edith Abbott, Julia Lathrop, Dr. Valeria Parker, Judge Mary M. Bartelme served on committees and contributed to the discussions of the conference. Utah was represented by forty-three delegates. From the Relief Society were, Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, Julia A. F. Lund, Amy W. Evans of the General Board; President Emmaretta G Brown, of the Granite stake; President Electa S. Dixon, of Utah stake; Marie H. Tanner, secretary of Grant stake; Mabel W. James and Bae Williams, of Ensign stake; five members of the staff of the welfare department; and the social worker of Utah stake. Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Y. L. M. I. A., Oscar A. Kirkham of the Y. M. M. I. A. And Clara W. Beebe of the Primary Association attended the conference.
Baby Wear
Vilate Elliot, Brigham Young University
The clothing course in which baby wear is offered at the Brigham Young University is unique for the reason that the students at the beginning of the course never care to make the articles. They are usually induced to do so by the teacher finding customers who are glad to have them made. Sometimes some member of the student's family is anxious to have them made. It is much better for the student to plan and make them for some friend, or a member of her own family, because in nearly every case, after the articles are finished, they become so much a part of herself she wishes to make them for her own hope-chest. The desire to become. A mother someday is awakened, and as the little dainty articles grow under her fingers, she unconsciously weaves the dreams of her own future into the designs of the tiny article. Long before they are finished they become the most intimate bits of creation. By the time the course is over you will hear some such remark as, "I have promised this to my sister, but I have told her, since it is nearly finished, that her baby may wear it, but I want to keep it." This comment is always a delight to hear, because I know that deep down in her own heart that maternal instinct of motherhood is strongly implanted. She has made one wee bit of a dress and possibly a gertrude, now she wants to go on and make the whole layette. In this way one of the aims of the course is attained. She will always be interested in making a layette. She will always want soft, dainty materials, with simple bits of handwork adorning them. A picture of a few of the baby dresses made in class are shown here. Preceding this class, a course is given in textile decoration where the girls become familiar with different kinds of artistic stitchery; however, the stitches are simple, and can be done easily. These dresses are from twenty to twenty-two inches long, finished. No. 1 has a hem partially cut out, this hem is finished with an embroidered scallop, a dainty little design is worked in the open spaces: this design is also worked at the neck. The hem design is carried out on the sleeve, giving a cuff effect. The little fine scallop around the neck is continued down to the bottom of the placket. A small piece of selvedge edge is placed under the placket with the selvedge on the opposite side of the scallop and embroidered in with it, this acts as a stay for the button holes. No. 2 has a heavily padded scallop with a small space of cutwork placed in between each cluster of scallops. A similar design is carried out in the front and sleeves, No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. No. 3 is a dainty scalloped edge with a design, in the center of which is a little cut work. No. 4 is a little jacket made from a 24-inch square of cashmere, or flannel, the jacket is hemstitched around, then finished with a crochet picot edge. The design is shown below. The colors used are pink, blue, yellow, green and lavender. In the original the rambler roses on the line were placed to fit the spaces in the jacket. This same design was used on a dress, it worked up well, the roses were placed from three to four inches apart, with the raised, or broken line, in front. A very attractive design can be arranged for the neck and sleeves.
Molly Crossman Breaks a Tradition of Byfield
By Elsie C. Carroll
Molly laid down the magazine she had been reading and gazed out of the window toward the hills which skirted Byfield, on the east. The first yellows and reds of Autumn were beginning to show on the brown slopes, but Molly was unconscious of the fact. She was trying to interpret the vague something which the article she had just finished reading, had stirred within her. Presently she took up the magazine again and read once more slowly, and thoughtfully, the last part of Laura Drake Gill's "Creed of Work for Women:" "I believe that every woman should expect marriage to interrupt for some years the pursuit of any regular gainful occupation; * * * * and that she should focus her chief thought during the early youth of her children upon the science and art of wise family life. "I believe that every woman should hope to return, in the second leisure of middle life, to some of her early skilled occupations—either as an unsalaried worker in some one of its social phases, or if income be an object, as a salaried worker in a phase of it requiring maturity and social experience. "I believe that this general policy of economic service for American women would yield generous by-products of intelligence, responsibility and. Contentment." It was certain words in the last two paragraphs that had gripped Molly. There was nothing new or striking in thought that women at marriage, should give up all other interests and devote themselves to motherhood and homemaking. That was taken for granted—had been taken for granted through long years of progressing civilization. It was the words, "second leisure of middle age," and the "generous by-product of contentment," which had started this unfamiliar groping in her soul. Gradually it was dawning upon Molly Crossman that the unexplainable loneliness and restlessness and discontent which had been settling down heavier and heavier around her during the past few weeks since Lillian's wedding and departure, and the boy's leaving for college, was something more than the natural void always experienced when members of the family
468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
went away for short periods or long. It was "the leisure of middle age" stretching before her. Strange she had not seen it coming. Danny had been the only one of the children with them the winter before. But somehow with his High School committee meetings and house parties, Mutual and scout work he had kept things pretty much astir. Then there was usually a dress being fixed over to send to Lillian or a box of "eats" in preparation for Hal, so that she had seemed about as much occupied as in the old days when all six of the children were small enough to be washed and tucked into bed by her own hands. Dan was a freshman this year and had gone back to college with Hal, and Lillian had married Ted Bronson, the flame of her senior year, and had gone with him to far-away Canada. To be sure Dick lived just through the lot, but somehow Molly had never taken very much comfort in Dick's home. Lucy was a splendid woman, but her hobby seemed to be the rearing of her children according to the latest scientific methods— which of course was all right—but Molly always felt that Lucy was constantly in fear that Grandma was going to break in upon the routine of little Mary's or Dickie's schedule. Janet, their eldest daughter lived in Dale, only fifteen miles away, but she had four small children and found little time to visit. George was on a mission in the Orient and would be gone at least three more years. There was no doubt about it, Molly Crossman finally told herself that unbelievable day had come when there was time to do every single thing she had planned to do—and more—. There was time to sit and wonder what she was going to do with the long afternoons and evenings when there were no baskets of undarned stockings nor neglected bureau drawers or pantry shelves to leer at her if she sank into an easy chair and thought to give herself up to the pleasure of an interesting story or volume of poems. Of course, she might join the Bridge Club, or the Social Circle. She had fretted considerably in days gone by because she and Richard had neither time nor money to join what Byfield proudly termed its high society. But somehow, now, after the strenuousness of all their years of saving and planning and caring for the children, all that such society stood for seemed so insignificant and such a waste of time! Richard had been a very successful country lawyer, and they had achieved most of the big things they had set out to do. They had made a good home and had put all the children
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION 469
through high school, and the four younger ones would all have the privilege of a college education. She and Richard were comfortably fixed for the rest of their lives as far as actual needs were concerned—though, of course, there were a lot of things like sets of period furniture and a larger automobile and a trip to historic New England she had always wished they might have. — Suddenly Molly sat. Up more erectly. Once more she seized the magazine. Up to this point she had merely been trying to interpret her vague unrest in the light of the new thought Miss Gill's Creed had given her. Now she searched out these words: "I believe that every woman should hope to return in the second leisure of middle age, to some of her early skilled labor—" Instantly Molly's mind flashed back to the little millinery shop where she had been working when Richard came to her mother's lodging house that last year at law school. She had loved her work in the gay little shop of Madame Pirrie, but her's and Richard's courtship had progressed so swiftly that just about the time that Madame had begun to beam upon her work and to exclaim, "Tres bien, tres bien!" and to give her now and then a hat to make or remodel for one of the shop's very special customers, which meant that now she was proficient in her work—she found herself wearing Richard's diamond, and life had suddenly become a flutter of excited preparation for the wedding which was to follow immediately after his graduation. The twenty-eight years since then had been so full she had had no time to mourn for the career she left in the little shop back in her native city, though she had experienced some moments of keen satisfaction when the girls, on different occasions, had expressed delighted wonder over her ability to transform their old hats with a few bits of odd lace or ribbon. A new light glowed in Molly's eyes. From the stretch of middle-age leisure, which a half hour before had frightened her, now beckoned happy hours of pleasant work and ill-defined promises of period furniture and visits to alluring historic monuments. A few weeks later a card came informing Molly that ten boxes of insured mail addressed to her were at the Byfield Post Office. Richard brought the card when he came home to lunch. "What in the Dickens does this mean, Mother?" he asked. "Ten boxes of something from Chicago."
470 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Molly's faced flushed. She had used money saved from her personal allowance to pay for the hats; but, of course, she had known all the time there would have to be an explanation to Richard sooner or later. During the previous days while she had been covertly transferring furniture, piece by piece, from the now seldom-used parlor to the attic, and arranging table and improvising shelves, she had been wondering what Richard would say. She had no way of judging what he would think of her plan, because it was so unlike anything she had ever planned before. "It—it can't be that something has—has happened to Lillian—" Richard's mind still retained an image of the heaped-up boxes and trunks as part of the departure of the bridal pair. Molly hastened to allay his fears. "No, Father, nothing is wrong with Lillian. You know we had a letter yesterday. The boxes are some—some— things I sent for." "But ten boxes. Have you sent for some of that period furniture you are always talking about?" Richard laughed. His expression was almost feminine in its curiosity. The pink on Molly's face was becoming more vivid. "It's hats, Richard. You know I used to work in a millinery shop before we were married, and I loved it, and now —now the children are all grown and I have lots of time I thought I'd—I'd open a little shop here." Molly had spoken rapidly as if in guilt or fear. The look of curiosity on Richard's face changed first to astonishment then to self-accusation, as his logical mind attempted to supply the motive behind this unheard of plan. "Molly!" he fairly gasped, "I haven't—I didn't mean ever to be stingy with you. What is it you want, Mother? Surely I've never made you feel that you had to work for money." His hand had gone into his pocket and came out with a roll of bills. "No, Richard it isn't that I need money. It is just that I want something to do. You see I've been so busy ever since we were married—taking care of the children—and now they are all grown—and gone, and, well—I need something to fill up my leisure." Richard threw back his head and laughed in keen relief. "You women folks beat anything. Always wishing for time to rest and enjoy life. Then when a time comes so you can rest, you hunt work." "Well, I'll just call around at the office and have those boxes shipped back. Goodness knows you've earned your leisure, and now you're going to enjoy it."
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION 471
Molly sprang up in alarm. "No, Richard, I want those hats. You don't understand. I need some really useful work to keep me contented and happy, and Byfield needs a hat shop. Every woman has to go to Dale for her hats. "But what in thunder will people say—you going into business?" That thought had not occurred to Molly. Even now, it didn't seem important to her what people might say. The important thing was to convert Richard to let her keep the hats. She argued for a half hour and finally he grunted something about, "fool notions and women's inconsistencies," as he arose from the table and left for the office. Molly hurried across the street as soon as he was gone and arranged with Georgie Bratton to go to the office at once and bring up the boxes. All afternoon she worked with happy exhilaration even forgetting her husband's disgruntled departure. The softness of the velvets and ribbons, the brightness of the feathers and flowers, brought back the old days in the Madam's shop so vividly that Molly hardly would have been surprised to have heard and approving "Tres bien." She worked behind closed doors and drawn window shades. The old fashioned bay window would make a splendid place for display. When her stock had all been arranged she viewed it with delighted satisfaction, and then slipped into her coat and hat and hurried down to the printing office where she knew the Byfield Semi-weekly Post would soon be going to press. Tom Matthews, the managing editor, looked at her with mingled surprise and sympathy when he read the advertisement—she had asked him to run. "Has—has—anything happened, Mis' Crossman?" he asked solicitously, perhaps feeling that he must have recently missed an important news item about the business failure of Judge Crossman. Molly shook her head smilingly. "No—nothing has happened yet, but I hope a lot of people will happen into my store when they read that ad." Molly was beginning to realize that there was a tradition in Byfield, based on the supposition that married women with husbands were supposed to confine their time and interests within the four walls of home. That this tradition was fixed in the minds of her own sex, as well as in the minds of the real breadwinners, was also evidenced shortly and in a manner that at first riled Molly, then amused her.
472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Ellen Thompson was the first one of her neighbors to spy the bay window the next morning with its neat placard: "Crossman Hat Shop" She rushed in upon Molly, all excited. "Why, Molly Crossman, what ever's happened?" "You're the first one that's happened," Molly laughed. "Don't they look gorgeous? There's one that will just suit you, Ellen, I thought when I was unpacking it. That looks just like Ellen Thompson. Its rich peacock-blue pan velvet with the cutest little pompom. Do come in and try it on." But amazement on Ellen's face had only deepened. "I—I—can't, just now, Molly. I—I just wondered if— if—something had happened to Richard. I've got to hurry back to the children." She moved from the door with a curious, baffled expression which irritated Molly immensely. She tried to keep surprise out of her tone, as she said: "Well do come over when you have time and see what I have. I thought a millinery shop was one thing Byfield certainly needed. I used to work in one before I was married, you know, and thought I'd enjoy taking up the work again, now the children—now in the—the second leisure of middle age when I haven't much to do." She groped hopefully for Miss Gill's illuminating words, but they had fallen wasted on Ellen's ears. Her expression still said, "Are you crazy? Or has something really happened to Richard?" Molly noticed that Ellen didn't, "hurry back to the children," but that she rushed up the street to Nora Gilman's. Fifteen minutes later she saw Nora accompany Ellen out of her front gate. They were talking and gesticulating earnestly. Nora had a pitcher in her hand and she was ostensibly going on an errand, but Molly knew she was coming down the street to get a view of her window. She passed Ellen's and went on to Edie Jone's where Molly saw her and Edie appear at the front door a moment later. During the next hour a half dozen more of the Crossman neighbors passed up or down the street, presumably on some piece of business, but they all cast such wondering, curious glances at Molly's window that she knew they had "heard" and were passing to see. About ten o'clock, Betsy Helper came resolutely down the street and turned in at Molly's gate. Molly, who had passed through the various stages of surprise, resentment and anger, as she had been forced to realize the attitude her neighbors were taking, gave a sigh of relief at the sight of Betsy. She and Betsy Helper had been close friends for twenty years. Of course Betsy would understand.
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION 473
"Molly Crossman, what on earth are you doing?" Betsy demanded, as she entered the door Molly had thrown open for her. "Don't you know the whole town is talking about you and wondering if you and Richard are separating, or if Hal has got to gambling, and has lost a lot of money, or what is the matter?" Molly gasped. Then she burst into angry tears. "Betsy, this town is crazy. Can't a woman do a little bit of honest work besides dishwashing and sweeping and scrubbing and tending babies without being looked upon as a freak?" "Why, of course, she can. Mary Hart bakes for travelers and Susie Crampton tends the Post Office and Daisy Darton goes out sewing. But they're all widows and have to do it for a living. But the idea of you sitting up in business when Richard is one of the best to-do men in the town! They can't understand it!" "Well, it's time they broke loose from some of their old fogy traditions, then." Molly said determinedly. "I think it's too bad if a woman has time on her hands she can't do something useful that she likes to do, just because her neighbors haven't happened to think of it." At this point Dick's wife, Lucy, came in at the back door. Betsy reading in her face that she had "just heard," slipped out the front door to avoid being an intruder. "Why, Mother Crossman, what's this the neighbors are saying? Belle Peters says you've got a lot of hats in your parlor window and a millinery sign." Molly felt the calm of desperation coming to her. She had always felt a little in awe of Lucy who was so up-to-date and modern. But some how now she was sure she herself had grasped one modern idea Lucy had not yet glimpsed. "Why. Yes, Lucy. I have a fine lot of new hats—just got them yesterday. I was going to have you come over and pick one out. It's such a bother to have to go to Dale every spring and fall. I want to give you one for your birthday." She was interrupted by the quick click of the gate, and the well known sound of Richard's hurried strides, on the graveled walk. At Molly's first sight of his flushed, exasperated countenance, as he bounded up the steps waving a fresh copy of the Byfield Post, her senses of humor came to relieve the tension of her overwrought nerves. "Mother," he fairly bellowed. "What in thunder do you suppose you're doing with this crazy hat notion of yours? It's all over town that I've failed. My office is full of men who think I owe them something or who have an idea it's their duty to help me over the crash. What in thunder—!"
474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Molly had sunk into a chair convulsed with laughter! Her husband and daughter-in-law looked at her in amazement, then with perplexity, and increasing alarm, at one another. Lucy was the first to speak. "Shall—shall I go for Dr. Trent?" Molly laughed harder than ever. The consternation in the faces before her growing more and more ludicrous to her. "Molly, for heaven's sake, what is the matter?" Richard's voice was full of fear. "I've never known her to have hysterics before. She—she hasn't seemed just right since Lillian and the boys left, but I didn't realize—hurry Lucy, get the doctor, quick, and send Dick over—I'll try to get her to bed—Molly, darling? Can't you control—?" With a mighty effort Molly did control herself just in time to keep Lucy from running for the doctor. She stood up and called Lucy back. "Don't go for the doctor, Lucy. I'm not crazy like you think: It just struck me as about the funniest thing that ever happened, this fuss you are all making over my poor little window of hats. Both of you sit down and let me show you what is responsible for my supposed aberration." Molly returned with a magazine. "Read that," she handed the paper to Lucy who looked up from the title with a quick look of appreciative understanding. "A Creed of Work for Women." Why, Grandma, this article must have the power of contagion. When I read it, it made me hungry to keep on with my music lessons. The only objection I have to it is that Miss Gill has not seen quite far enough. She should have said that during the years of babytending the woman should plan to give some thought and time to her former profession—exchanging work with her neighbors or doing something to make it possible. If I could go out an afternoon or two a week and give music lessons like I used to, I really believe it would help me to be a better wife to Dick and a better mother to the babies—a woman does need a change of thought and some outside interest to keep her fit for the big job of homemaking. Here Grandpa, read that—and understand—while I go in and look at the hats." Molly intuitively recognized a new something in her daughter-in-law's attitude. She somehow suddenly became aware that she wasn't going to feel ill-at-ease around Lucy and the children any more—they were going to be comrades. "Why, Lucy it would be nice for you to keep on with your music. You could bring the children over here. You know I'd love to have them." "That will be fine, Grandma. You see I could hire a girl to
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION 475
tend them, so it wouldn't tire you, but if they could just be here so I'd know they were safe—really in better hands than my own," Lucy's voice was enthusiastic. Richard Crossman watched the two women as they disappeared into the parlor— his face still puzzled—then he turned to the article Lucy had given him. When he had finished reading he pondered for several minutes, a look of amusement gradually coming into his eyes. Finally he went to the parlor door. "Well, you women folks beat anything,' he bantered. "Never satisfied. I expect you'll soon want to be trading work with the men—or taking it all over." He started toward the street door, but turned back. "Say, Mother, what am I to tell those fellows hanging around my office?" he asked with a grin. "And what are you going to tell the whole neighborhood of women you've set a-buzzing?" For a moment Molly hesitated. A shadow of the morning's exasperation passed over her face. But presently she squared her shoulders and threw back her head. "What will we tell them? We'll tell them that Molly Crossman has broken through a foolish tradition of Byfield and she is going to invite the rest of the women to follow her."
Beatitudes
Lula Greene Richards
Peace, Heart—dear Heart! The darkest hour can never be So dense but Truth can reach us. And Faith, the strongest power of all Will penetrate the blackest pall, And where earth's deepest shadows fall By light from heaven our eyes can see The lessons Hope would teach us.
Peace, peace dear Heart!
Trust, Soul beloved! Behold a heavier cross than thine And hasten aid to render. The one by whom that cross is borne, Wronged thee, perhaps, but yestermorn, Yet Charity's fair mantle worn By thee will waken Love divine, Forgiveness sweet and tender.
Trust, Soul beloved!
The Editor Abroad
By Alice Louise Reynolds
MORE ABOUT ITALY
From Florence we pass to Genoa, the city whose name must ever strike a responsive chord in the heart of the American. We confess to a distant thrill, when looking from our bedroom window, the morning after our arrival in Genoa, we saw the statue of Columbus. Our ardor was just a little dampened when on inspection, at closer range, we discovered that the sculptor knew very little about the Indian; for his Indian resembles nothing so much as the cultured white with a feather or two in his hair. We could not help feeling that it is a great pity that the American and Utah sculptor, Cyrus E. Dallin, could not have a hand, even at this date, in making the needed improvement. We, of course, were shown the house in which it is said Columbus was born, and "specimens of his handwriting,' as Mark Twain calls them, and models of the three ships used by him when in quest of the New World. These things were all interesting, but what impressed us most of all was the wisdom of the Almighty in providing that Christopher Columbus should be born in a sea-port town, whose harbor was probably then, as it is now, filled with ships, and where one might see from the bay ships coming and going all the time. The Lord works on natural principles, and the life which Columbus saw as a boy would naturally have a tendency to make him yearn for and think of lands beyond the sea. From Genoa we shall go to Pisa—Pisa the city of the Leaning Tower, is important because of its beautiful churches built of Carrara marble, for the Carrara quarries are only a short distance from Pisa. The Latter-day Saints, and very possibly the people of the Baptist church, may find themselves greatly interested in the Baptistry, to be found in the vicinity of the Leaning Tower. The font, which is very beautiful, combines various colors of marble, for the Carrara quarries produce marble of seven different colors, the white being the best; the other quarries such as the quarry at Sienna produces other colors. The font, truly made of precious marble, which in all probability was thought of as precious stones, was used to baptize by immersion. Outside is a cemetery to which fifty-three shiploads of earth have been brought from the Holy Land, and where one of the most diabolical paintings, that of the Last Judgment, may be found. Milan comes next as we move along. It is the city of the famous Gothic Cathedral. Which consumed practically four cen-
THE EDITOR ABROAD 477
turies to build, and which is adorned with about two thousand statues. This church is also one of the large churches of the world, as it will hold forty thousand people. In looking at the cathedral, we have thought that if there can be such a thing as a poem in stone, this cathedral is surely a poem. Karl Baedeker speaking of it says, "the effect of the whole is almost fairy-like, especially by moonlight. It is in the city of the Milan that we find the celebrated "Last Supper,' by Leonardo Da Vinci. It was painted on the end wall of a rather small room, of the church known as the refectory; it was the place where the monks ate their meals. So much for the Milan of the past. The Milan of the present is a flourishing city. More modern than most Italian cities, our party felt. In any event, in its famous opera house, the best of Italian opera may be heard. Venice was the last city in Italy that our party visited. It is unique among all the cities of the world; it is the city that claims to be the resting place of Mark, the Evangelist, consequently he is its patron Saint. Its great church on San Marco, or St. Marks square does not look like St. Peters at Rome, nor like the Cathedral at Florence and Pisa, neither does it look like the magnificent Gothic church at Milan. The great church of Venice borrowed its style from the East. It has been said that we can never understand the art of Venice until we regard Venice as a suburb of Constantinople, for the church is similar in architectural details to the churches of the East. Venice is a city where the clang of the horse's hoof is never heard upon the pavement, neither does one hear the honking of
478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the horn of the automobilist; the whistle of the train may be heard if one is nearby the station. The only sounds that greet the ear from the street is the splashing of the oar of the gondolier, in his path. Occasionally if one is very fortunate one may hear the gondolier singing the airs from Italian opera; such was our good fortune on our first visit to Venice, in 1906. Yet Venice has a life all its own, and if the light from the automobile does not attract the eye of the pedestrian, still he may see the black gondola with its headlight darting in and out from under the numerous bridges that cross the canals in his path. The square of San Marco church is very lively. In the day time it is haunted by tourists and pigeons, who not unfrequently come together, for the pigeons have a habit of alighting on the tourists shoulders at the moment he is having his photograph taken. Then, everywhere in the square one sees among the shops, displaying pretty Venetian wares, refreshment rooms where many people come for afternoon tea and ice cream, and where the bands play the airs of popular songs and Italian opera. Byron speaks of Venice enthroned upon her hundred isles. Rising sphinxlike from the sea, as by the enchanters wand. Venice has felt the touch of the enchanters wand, but that enchanters wand is the touch of William Shakespeare and George Gordon Byron. The Rialto Bridge was built in the sixteenth century, and might easily have been discarded by now, for the more modern iron bridge, only that Shakespeare had peopled it in the Merchant of Venice, thereby immortalizing it. The Bridge of Sighs might easily pass unnoticed, although it has a palace and a prison at its side, had not Byron by a word, perhaps, decreed that it should never die. We have written briefly about some of the most important cities of Italy. The modern Italians may not be painting as did Leonardo Da Vinci, Raphael or Andrea Del Sarto: they may not be building churches like St. Peters, although St. Paul's without the gate is greatly to their credit; they may not be able to place within these churches such marvelous statues as the Moses by Michelangelo, but they have produced in late years very beautiful Italian opera, and far more than their share of beautiful voices to sing the opera their gifted composers have produced. A few days ago in the city of Vienna, we heard a lady speaking of a tenor, Alfred Piccaver by name, she called him the English Caruso; it was the highest compliment she could pay him. We would call the attention of our readers to the fact that in a very short time. Italy has buried three great artists, Caruso, the singer; Puccini, the composer, and Eleanor Duse the actress, so that it is apparent that Italy has a present, as well as a past, for no country can bury great artists, in its own name, unless it has first produced them. But it is not only great singers, great composers and actresses
THE EDITOR ABROAD 479
that Italy is producing, at the present time, besides these it is creating many beautiful articles of handcraft. Every city has its specialty, making just the sort of thing that the tourist loves to pick up to bring home as a present to a relative or friend. Naples, for instance, takes the rough shells from the Mediterranean Sea, and fashions them into shapes for use as brooches and rings, and what is most wonderful carves upon them masterpieces of art, so that tens of thousands of people see in the brooch or ring they are wearing the matchless form of an Athena, a Flora, a Venus, an Apollo or a Hermes. In Rome we found the lovely silk shawl with the long fringe so fashionable at present, while the Roman pearls are, likely, a permanent product. In Assisi, the birthplace of St. Francis, after whom the city of San Francisco is named, three members of our party purchased exquisite luncheon sets; the handmade designs are taken from Giotto the first of the great Italian painters. Giotto did some of his best work in Assisi. In Florence the Mosaics are a specialty. Flowers, birds, and ornamental jewelry are made by these skillful workmen. One marvels at the way in which the color of the flower or the bird is reproduced in stone. In Pisa we saw not only churches of Carrara marble, in delicate tints, but a goodly number of shops where workmen were
The Famous Dante's Head by Giotto
480 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
fashioning the rude blocks of marble into copies of a Venus, a Thorn Extractor, or perhaps the head of Giotto's Dante. In Genoa we saw people at work making jewelry in silver filigree, brooches, bracelets, napkin rings, in fact an endless variety of things. Venice has been noted for many years for both superb lace and glass. In the factory we saw eighty-two women at work making the lace that has such a high market value. For five hundred years the Venetians have been using glass to make choice articles for decorative purposes. There is scarcely a palace in the world that does not possess at least one chandelier of Venetian glass. The work done today seems more beautiful than ever. They have copied designs from both fruit and flower to good effect. The decorative receptacles for light made from both grapes and the wisteria, seen climbing about the porches of many of the palaces of the Grand Canal, are exquisite in the highest sense of the word. Today Venice is producing an endless variety of beautiful glass beads, very much appreciated by women seeking beads to match or contrast with their gowns. It has seldom happened in the history of a people to have twice a great past; yet this is the glorious heritage of the Italians, who have the past of the Caesar and the past of the Renaissance— both of them great. This it is that gives Italy first rank among places of interest in the world; this is the secret of her interest particularly to the trained traveler. So well has this later generation conserved what is left of the great output of former generations that today Italy may be regarded as a hostess nation, for not the least of her many responsibilities is to prepare for and take care of the stranger within her gates. This responsibility she is living up to and magnifying in some instances. A reminder to our party of the last statement, is the fact that when we left Florence. A city whose name means flowers, we are presented with a very beautiful bouquet by the proprietor of the hotel.
Humility
Our Lord has said that we should be. All clothed with deep humility; For He resists the proud and vain, And those who do His laws disdain.
If we wax strong in righteousness And all our faults. And sins confess; Our faith will then much firmer be, In humbleness we'll bow the knee.
Elsie E. Barrett
Calories for Safety
Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education
No less authority than Dr. Mary Swartz Rose, of Columbia, is responsible for the statement that: "The most important single factor in nutrition is to adequately meet the energy requirement." This means that the food supply must not only meet the demand made by various forms of activity but in addition must meet maintenance and building demands of the individual. If this requirement is not met, careful consideration of ash, vitamines and proteins are insufficient in themselves to bring the individual into optimum physical well being. In a very recent statement, Mrs. Rose maintains that "too much attention is now being given to vitamines and not enough to calories." In order to equalize interest in different phases of nutrition it seems wise to discuss energy requirements in terms of calories. It is not difficult to think in terms of calories if you consider it as merely a heat unit of measure just as the gallon is a unit for measuring liquids, the yard stick a means of measuring cloth, etc., and the thermometer a device for measuring temperature. The calorie represents the heat value of foods burned either outside or inside of the body. The heat value or caloric value of foods is measured outside the body by burning foods in the bomb calorimeter which makes it possible to measure accurately the amount of heat furnished by the combustion of a known amount of food. Devices for measuring the amount of heat or energy required for different kinds of activity have been measured by other kinds of calorimeters. It has been found, for instance, by use of the baby calorimeter that a crying baby consumes much more energy than the sleeping child. The variation has been accurately measured by carefully measuring the amount of heat given off by the crying baby and comparing it with the amount of heat or energy used by the body of the sleeping infant. A friend contributes the following boarding-house experience: Most of the boarders were outside-workers whose energy demands were above the average. It was the exception when the table did not supply a generous amount of food in terms of calories. Meats, rich in gravies, frequently hot breads, vegetables and rich desserts were the foods usually served in abundance so that this "surprise meal' was conspicuous to the food chemist. The menu that evening consisted. Of a stew in which the very lean meat was not tender enough to eat. In addition to the meat there was a generous amount of young carrots, turnips and string beans. The menu also included crisp radishes and lettuce which might be eaten
482 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
with vinegar and sugar or salt, very light rather dry bread and butter, jello, without whipped cream or sauce of any kind, and watermelon. The men ate generously of everything but the meat. No comment was made by the person who knew that the meal was largely water, vitamines, cellulose and mineral salts. The next morning in answer to a casual question as to what they had done the previous evening, the man whose energy requirements were highest, answered, "I got so hungry about nine o'clock that I went over to the drug store and ate a banana special." Two other members of the group admitted eating candy which was not in their usual schedule. A rough estimate of the calorie requirement of this "surprise meal' shows the following:
Stew, large portion, (lean)................................................................ 250 Calories (More eatable meat and more fat might have furnished an additional 200 calories.) Radishes and lettuce, large serving..................................................... 20 Calories Sugar, heaping teaspoon................................................................... 50 Calories Three slices very light home made bread.......................................... 200-300 Calories Butter, two cubes 1/2" x 1" x 1/4".................................................... 200 Calories Jello............................................................................................... 100 Calories Watermelon 2" large slice................................................................ 90 Calories 1130 Calories
To show that hunger was a natural result from this kind of a meal it is interesting to note that the energy requirement of a man in different occupations would be:
Occupation Calories per man per day In bed twenty-four hours.........................................................1600—1800 At rest but sitting most of the day..........................................2000—2300 Work chiefly done sitting........................................................2200—2800 Work chiefly done standing or walking...................................2700—3000 Work developing muscular strength.........................................3000—3500 Work requiring very severe effort............................................4000—6000
The men at this boarding house had an early breakfast and a box lunch, so that they were getting approximately 800 to 1000 calories at each of these meals. The kind of dinner listed above would not finish meeting the energy requirements and keep a man of this activity up to normal weight. When a person has to resort to eating between meals it is well to question the boarding house. The following tables from Feeding the Family, by Rose, show the comparative values per pound of common foods in terms of calories:
I. Foods Rich in Protein Calories Per Pound of Edible Uncooked Material Beef, dried, lean.....................................817 Cod, fresh, steaks....................................329 Beef fresh, lean......................................770 Cod, salted...............................................473 Beef, tongue, fresh..................................719 Egg whites..............................................231 Cheese, cottage......................................498
CALORIES FOR SAFETY 483
II. Foods Rich in Fat Bacon....................................................2836 Olive oil or cottonseed oil........................4082 Butter....................................................3488 Salt pork.................................................3555 Cream, thick..........................................1727 Suet........................................................3425 Lard.......................................................4082 Walnuts, English.....................................3199 Oleomargarine........................................3410
III. Foods Rich in Carbohydrates Apples...................................................285 Dates......................................................1575 Bananas.................................................447 Honey.....................................................1480 Cornstarch.............................................1632 Molasses................................................1301 Sugar, granulated...................................1814 Potatoes, white.......................................378 Tapioca.................................................1608 Rice........................................................1591
IV. Foods Rich in Both Protein and Fat Almonds................................................2936 Milk, whole.............................................314 Beef, fat................................................1357 Peanut butter..........................................2741 Cheese, American...................................1994 Peanuts..................................................2487 Eggs......................................................672 Sardines.................................................1221 Egg yolks...............................................1643
V. Foods Rich in Protein and Carbohydrates Beans, dried...........................................1564 Macaroni................................................1624 Bread.....................................................1174 Milk, skim..............................................166 Buttermilk.............................................162 Oatmeal.................................................1810 Farina...................................................1641 Oysters..................................................222 Lentils...................................................1541 Peas, dried.............................................1612
VI. Foods Rich in Cellulose and Water Cabbage.................................................143 Lettuce...................................................87 Celery....................................................84 Spinach..................................................108 Cucumbers.............................................79 Squash...................................................103 Watermelon...........................................137 Tomatoes................................................103
Occasional checking on calories is essential to determine whether or not energy requirements are being met. If your child is not doing satisfactory work in his grade, or if he is behind the grade that he should be in for his years, it is possible that there is too wide variation between the calories he needs and those he eats. This variation is shown in charts showing relationship between weight and height. In checking on this it is important that the child be weighed in the same clothing at the same time of the day and on the same day of the week or month. If your child is normal weight for his height it is probable that his calorie intake is sufficient. If your child is more than 15% underweight, he should be considered ill, for when he is mare than 15% underweight there is too much danger from low resistance, imperfect development and instability of the nervous system, to insure good health. From the standpoint of safety the child should be kept very close to, or better, a few points above his normal weight. Dr. Emerson of Boston found that the malnourished 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child averaged six physical defects to one or less for children properly nourished. There seems little room for doubt that one of the chief causes for malnutrition is an unwise selection of food. Mothers do not always realize the difference in food values of different foods. Some have not learned the importance of constantly checking the physical condition of the child in terms of height, weight, good appetite, good digestion, good color, good disposition, cheerful expression, bright eyes, glossy hair, sound teeth and firmly developed muscles. In contrast, the malnourished child is usually irritable, nervous, forgetful and inattentive, has small or crooked bones and lacks mental and physical vigor. It is the mother's responsibility to see that those under her care should eat food right in kind and amount. While there is no question that fruits are appetizing and that some should be used every day, they are too bulky to be substituted for concentrated foods. A boy eight years of age, for instance, who needs 2000 calories a day would not be well nourished on twenty large apples a day. While this number would supply the caloric requirement, it would be inadequate in terms of protein and fat and would also be lacking in vitamine C and low in vitamine B and A. If this boy should eat eight or twelve apples a day and as a result should have little appetite at meal time, he will probably lose weight in terms of muscle tissue and body fat as well as suffer loss in calcium, iron, and phosphorus. This deficient diet will not help him to make satisfactory progress in school. Dr. Holt found that a safe over-weight is usually found in specially promoted pupils as they are less easily fatigued, have increased resistance and better concentration than those suffering from malnutrition. Neither muscle tissue, nerve or bone can be developed or maintained unless the right kind of food is furnished to the child as well as adult. At this season of the year garden stuff and fruits are so abundant this discussion is timely. Dr Hedger tells the following: "The weight curve for all of the children in an orphan asylum declined sharply in a certain week in October. When the superintendent was asked as to the cause, she replied, "Oh, that was apple week. Every year at this time we are presented with several barrels of apples and the children are allowed to help themselves. They eat so many that they do not eat much at meal time." Growing children cannot afford too many "apple weeks" when their normal weight curve suffers interference. This is especially true in vacation time when they should be making a steady gain in weight as health insurance to carry them over the year in school. Frequently, irritability and whining in children might be easily traced to unbalanced diets which did not provide adequate energy and growth requirements. The under nourished baby cries and frets because of discomfort from lack of sufficient food. The growing child is also uncomfortable and cross if he does not have a sufficient amount of the right kinds of foods. In terms of calories foods must be classed as concentrated and bulky. Concentrated foods such as fats, sugar, grains, dried meats and fruits contain little water and consequently have high caloric value. Bulky foods such as green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, fresh fruits, milk and stock soups contain relatively large amounts of water and as a result have low caloric value. Because of the low water content the most concentrated foods are fats, as one level tablespoon of butter, lard, etc., is equal in caloric value to one medium sized head of lettuce or pie plate full of uncooked spinach. It is equal in fuel value to about two tablespoonfuls of sugar and four tablespoons of dry granular cereal products. Double this amount is necessary of flaked cereals. An average sized potato is equal in terms of energy to four medium sized carrots. Dried foods such as beans, peas have more food value than the more bulky foods such as fruit and vegetables. One quart of soup stock without fat or vegetables is equal in fuel value to three-eighths cup whole milk. Further information. On this can be obtained from Feeding the Family by Rose. In order to safeguard your family, balance your menus. With a light meat course, serve a dessert that is rich with energy giving foods. With a heavy meat course, serve a light dessert that will be easily digested. When starchy vegetables are used, serve a light salad. With bulky vegetables, such as cabbage, a salad consisting of some concentrated food such as nuts, raisins or cheese should be chosen. Don't serve stock soup, green onions, radishes, lettuce and water ice or rhubarb at one time. Give your family credit for being able to drink some of the water they require. Cost of foods is not always an indication of their full value. Tomatoes out of season for instance at 20c a pound furnish an expensive 100 calorie portion. Foods costing less than 1c per 100 calories are cereals, bread, beans, cheap fats and sugar. The house wife interested in the problem will be glad to know that Mrs. Rose is writing a new book which gives additional light on this important problem. The Bureau of Home Economics, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., has published recently some interesting food charts showing food compositions. These may be obtained by writing to Dr. Louise Stanley, Bureau of Home Economics, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. And inclosing ten cents for the cost of the charts. Many of the high school textbooks in foods furnish additional information on food values in terms of 100 calorie portions. The intelligent homemaker must be constantly alert to the never ending problems in the "food game."
Of Interest to Women
Conducted By Lalene H. Hart
Will you suggest some way of saving time in planning meals that are economical and satisfying?
One woman solves her problem of "What to have for dinner" by using twelve envelopes, one for each month. After using menus she considered well balanced, she wrote menus and recipes on a card and slipped into the envelope. When the same month came again, much time was saved by just glancing at the cards. Many new ideas were suggested and gradually new menus added.
I have trouble in keeping groceries, if I buy them in very large quantities, although it is cheaper to do so. Can you help me out of the difficulty?
Unless one has proper storing space for the materials used, it is not economical in the long run, to buy in large quantities. The habit of dating all groceries and supplies that come into the house is a good business method. The articles longest on hand can be used first and nothing need spoil. The dates may call attention to what you may be forgetting to add to your menus. It is also interesting as well as economical to place date and price on things only frequently renewed. Good management, and good judgment in purchasing materials is the best solution of the problem. An excellent saver of time is to keep on hand a jar of plain sugar syrup made in the proportion of 2 cups sugar to 1 cup water. It can be used with fruit juice in making water ice, lemonade or punch, etc, or used for hot cakes. Different flavorings or colorings may be added for variety.
Save all the vaseline, cold cream and other similar bottles, Clean and sterilize thoroughly. Fill with jam, jelly, preserves, etc., or use for fresh fruit. They make excellent containers for the lunch basket.
When making long, narrow belts, sew a string on the end and keep inside while stitching. When the belt is sewed, pull the string to turn right side out.
For a convenient and useful sewing basket, I secured a cheese box. From a thirty inch board, one inch thick, I made the legs two inches wide. These I fastened to the outside of the cheese box with screws. The lid I used as a shelf below the box. I padded the inside with a thin layer of cotton batten and lined
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 487
it with silkoline. The remainder I stained a golden oak. I now have an attractive and useful article—Mrs. C. A. B., Rigby, Idaho.
When hemming dishtowels, use three or four threads of colored strand floss in the bobbin of the machine, instead of ordinary thread. This makes a neat hem and adds a decorative touch without extra work. Other household linens, also aprons and children's clothing, may be finished this way with good effect.— Mrs. Grace V., Price, Utah.
A good recipe for corn relish which is easily made is the following: 1 dozen ears of green corn. 1 Head of cabbage. 2 Large, green peppers. 2 Red peppers. 1 Pint brown sugar. 1 Tablespoon horse-radish, 1 tablespoon mustard. Salt to taste. 1 quart vinegar. Cut corn from cob, grind or chop other vegetables and mix other ingredients. Boil thirty minutes. Bottle and seal air tight. Do not use vinegar too strong.—Mrs. R. A., Moab, Utah.
When corn on the cob is old and turns yellow when cooked, add one or two tablespoons of vinegar to the water in which it is cooked. The corn will be tender and white without injuring the flavor—Mrs. E. H. Clifton, Idaho.
When there is a little oatmeal mush left and a small bit of cream or milk, both put in one dish and save to use in making hot cakes for breakfast next morning. It does not matter if the milk turns sour because a little soda can be used, with the other leavening agent. These cakes are delicious and after trying them once you are tempted to cook enough cereal next time to have some left over. If a larger amount is on hand, add more flour and drop in hot fat and fry as doughnuts. Serve as hot cakes with syrup, jelly or jam.—Mrs G. A. M., Salt Lake City.
All vegetables that are wilted may be made fresh and crisp again by letting them stand an hour or so in cold water to which a little vinegar has been added If there are any bugs in the leaves they will come to the top of the water—Mrs. P. C., Salt Lake City.
An easy way to clean painted wood work is to use equal parts of vinegar and kerosene. It will not mar or remove gloss as does
488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the soap and water. Wash as you would with water—Miss E. N. J., Howell, Utah.
Carrots make delicious preserves. Slice thin, enough for two quarts. Cover with water and boil until tender. Measure and add equal amount of sugar. Add two lemons sliced very thin Cook until thick and clear—Mrs. G. S., Burley, Idaho.
When griddle cake or waffle batter is left from breakfast, use it to dip steaks, cutlets or croquettes in and fry for dinner. Preserved ginger gives rice or sago pudding a delicious flavor.
A Ripe Peach
By Ivy Hoots Woolley
You tempt me to eat, Downy ripe peach, With the tint of your blossom Glowing pink on your cheek.
I cannot reach you, You nestle so high Among the green leaves; They fan you tenderly And keep from your pinkness The summer rains, And temper the glow of the sun.
Soon you will be So full of sweetness That your stem will not hold you. Then I shall look for you In the soft grass below.
You tempt me to eat, With the tint of your blossom Glowing pink on your cheek.
Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman
California Mission. The accompanying photo gives an idea of a very successful bazaar given by the Sacramento Relief Society from which was netted the sum of $240. The Senior girls and the Bee-Hive girls of the Y. L. M. I. A. Assisted with booths of candy, popcorn, and fancy novelties. The Y. M. M. I. A. Had a balloon booth. A very delightful program was rendered, followed by dancing.
The Sacramento Relief Society, California Mission
Not only was the bazaar a success financially, but also socially, every one claiming to have had the most enjoyable evening of the season. By giving suppers in addition to this bazaar, the association has been enabled to turn in over $700, for the new chapel. The Sacramento Relief Society has a very energetic and enterprising group of officers with Mrs. Almeda Green as president, Grace Garlick and Edna McBride, counselors, Mrs. Alice Y. Jarvis, secretary, and Lulu Weckworth, chorister. The teachers and members are most loyal and are ever ready to cooperate in any undertaking launched by the organization.
Logan Stake. The Logan stake Relief Society board recently entertained in honor of the local officers, bishops of wards, and their partners. The party was held at the Brigham Young College, and given in
490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
appreciation of the excellent work done by the officers during the past season. The first part of the evening was spent in the Nibley Hall where a very fine musical program was rendered and the two-act play, "Out of Work," was very ably presented under the direction of Miss Leora Thatcher. This little drama most beautifully portrayed the ideal we are putting into effect through the social service work of our Relief Society, and we feel that the message we desired to convey to our officers and bishops was very clearly defined through it. The latter part of the evening's entertainment was spent in social pastime, and refreshments were served.
Juarez Stake. At the last Relief Society conference, all of the wards in the stake, reported that they had made some effort towards establishing maternity bundles, layettes, and burial clothes. Most of the wards have chests for their maternity bundles and emergency supplies, but none so far have built especially for the purpose. Each ward has held a very successful Relief Society conference on Sunday afternoon.
South Davis Stake. One of the most enjoyable events of the South Davis stake Relief Society this season was the celebration of the eighty-third anniversary of the organization. About five hundred Relief Society officers and teachers met at East Bountiful and participated in a fine program followed by a jolly play hour in which the oldest lady present (ninety years) took an active part. Delicious refreshments were served. The day was so thoroughly enjoyed that the six hours passed as one. The Relief Society work is appreciated, as is shown in the attendance at the monthly union meetings as well as the marked improvement in the presentation of lessons. The standard of music has been raised as the result of a series of lessons given by Mrs. Stella Bradford. Some of the wards are receiving help from the clinics while others are making preparation to establish clinics in their respective localities. The maternity bundles and the layettes are proving very useful. By the purchase of a small $30 hectograph, outlines and articles relating to and supplementing the teacher's topics are placed in every home by the teachers. Each season the officers and members of the stake meet at Farmington and participate in testimony and song service which proves to be a spiritual uplift. This is followed by a visit to the Lagoon resort where a social afternoon is spent including a luncheon and clever entertainment by the Farmington ward.
Tintic Stake. The Tintic district held two very successful child welfare conferences in June, in Eureka and Goshen, with the Tintic stake
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 491
Relief Society, the Red Cross and other organizations affiliating. It is the plan to follow up with conferences in August. First of all, the children were weighed and their teeth examined, then turned over to a nurse and physician where a thorough examination was made along the most approved lines. It was rather surprising to learn that many were found to be badly in need of medical attention. The physicians in charge of the conference consulted with the parents and advised them regarding the proper methods of treatment to correct the defects, some of which are by no means serious, but in a few instances the children are in need of close attention. In Eureka 112 children were examined, and but 25 of that number were free from defects. In Goshen 95 children under school age were examined.
Nebo Stake. An outstanding social event in Nebo stake was the "get acquainted" party given recently in the second ward amusement hall by the members of the Nebo stake Relief Society board. The hall was transformed into a bower of spring loveliness with trailing vines and delicate shaded blossoms. Two hundred guests were seated at three long tables decorated with potted plants and cut flowers. The banquet was served at seven o'clock. President Hepsy S. Lewis delivered the address of welcome and introduced Mrs. Ada S. Clayton as toastmistress. The stake presidency and high council were toasted in an original song by the stake board members, after which President Lee R. Taylor responded. Mrs. Annie L. Curtis spoke for the ward Relief Society presidents and the four ward presidents of Payson sang an original song. Bishop Alfred R. Wilson spoke for the ward bishops. A musical program followed, after which the board members presented an extremely humorous play, "The Sniggles Family." The grotesque costumes and the efforts of the players at entertaining produced much merriment. Dancing was enjoyed for the remainder of the evening. The invitations were in the form of a clever poem and were sent to the presidents, counselors and secretaries in each Relief Society in the stake, also to the bishops and their counselors, stake presidency and high council. The majority of these, together with their partners, participated in the splendid entertainment.
REORGANIZATIONS
Yellowstone Stake. (Twice reorganized within the year.) On January 11, 1925, the Yellowstone stake was reorganized and Mrs. Julia E. Miller was honorably released as Relief Society stake president, after serving sixteen years. Mrs. Miller was sustained as a stake board member, in 1907, in the Fremont stake, and in 1909, when the Yellowstone stake Relief Society was first
492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
organized, she was called to act as president. At that time there was no uniform course of study in the Relief Society, and Mrs. Miller assisted in formulating the outline used for study in the various wards of her stake. During her presidency, the stake Relief Society paid one thousand dollars toward building the Yellowstone stake tabernacle in which one room was reserved and furnished especially for the Relief Society. Carpets were put in the gallery and on the steps, and matting was put in the aisles. In order to raise the money, dinners and stake bazaars were given. A few years later twelve hundred dollars was raised and was used in furnishing six rooms at the L. D. S. Hospital at Idaho Falls. The Relief Society has also assisted in securing county nurses and arranging for clinics which have been held throughout the communities. All the people of the stake joined in honoring the retiring presidency of the stake and Relief Society presidency on January 24, Mrs. Miller was presented with a wrist watch and her two counselors, Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd and. Mrs. Elizabeth N. Hammond, each received brooches. A social was also held February 21 at the home of Mrs. Rost H. Fogg in honor of Mrs. Miller and all the women who had served on the Relief Society stake board during the sixteen years since the organization. A short program was given and a two-course luncheon was served. Mrs. Miller has been a most efficient and devoted president. She has manifested rare intelligence in the performance of her duties and has succeeded in placing the work of the Yellowstone stake on a high plane. She has won the love and respect of the General Board members, and the Relief Society workers generally, and there is a deep appreciation throughout the organization for the long and efficient service she has rendered to the Relief Society. Mrs. Annie S. Kerr was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Miller, and she and her co-workers began their work in good earnest; but due to change of residence which occurred unexpectedly early in the summer, Mrs. Kerr asked to be released and her request was granted at the conference held in Yellowstone stake July 19. At this same time Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd was named as president to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mrs. Kerr.
Salt Lake Stake At the quarterly conference of the Salt Lake stake, held in the Assembly Hall, March 15, 1925, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford was honorably released as president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, after eight years of efficient and faithful service. Her release was due to change of residence. Mrs. Bradford was one of the most capable and progressive stake presidents in the whole
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 493
organization, and will be greatly missed by her former co-workers. The co-operative welfare work between bishops and ward presidents in the Salt Lake stake, instituted by President Nephi L. Morris and Mrs. Bradford, is an example of organized effort, helpfulness and efficient service that might be adopted with profit by all stakes in the Church. Mrs. Bradford was recently appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion, former counselor in the Salt Lake stake, was appointed to fill the vacancy caused by Mrs. Bradford's resignation. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams and Mrs. Rosa Belle H. Ashton were chosen counselors to Mrs. Bennion, and Mrs. Nellie P. Morton was selected as stake secretary-treasurer. In honor of the retiring president and board, a luncheon was given on June 1, 1925, at the home of Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion, when a beautiful traveling bag was presented to Mrs. Bradford.
Malad Stake The Malad stake Relief Society was reorganized March 28, 1925. Mrs. Eliza Hall who has served so effectively and efficiently as stake president for fourteen years, and previous to that for twenty years as a stake board member, resigned her position and was honorably released. Mrs. Hall has been a tireless and enthusiastic worker and has overcome many obstacles, incident to building up the Relief Society organization. Her sweet spirit and untiring devotion to the work has endeared her to all the members of the stake. Besides her Relief Society work, Mrs. Hall has reared a large family, almost alone, as her husband died in the, mission field, leaving a family of nine children. She has also reared two motherless grandchildren and labored unceasingly among the sick and needy. On May 11, a reception was held in honor of Mrs. Hall and the retiring Relief Society stake officers. Those present were the stake presidency and the old and new boards, with their partners. A very interesting program was rendered and expressions of appreciation were given for the splendid service rendered by those retiring from office. Refreshments were served and President Hall was presented with a beautiful white dress and other gifts. The other retiring members were also remembered with appropriate gifts. On May 30, an excursion to the Logan temple was held in honor of President Hall. About one hundred people participated and gave their service in the interest of Mrs. Hall's family. The new stake board members appointed are as follows: Mrs. Ella J. Richards, president; Mrs. Nellie Dredge and Mrs. Martha Hill, counselors; Mrs. Margaret M. Parry, secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Esther Mifflin, chorister; Mrs. Thelma Hoarse, organist; Hattie P. Howard, Mary Crowther, Hilda Richards, Mary Gibbs, Phoebe Smith, and Sarah Reynolds, board members.
Guide Lessons for November
LESSON I (First Week in November)
Theology and Testimony
THE ABRAHAMIC DISPENSATION, CONCLUDED
A. JOSEPH
1. The Spirituality of His Parents. His father, the first "Israelite," a man who worshiped God, was visited by divine messengers, was given a new name, and was blessed by the Lord with a renewal of the promises made to his father Isaac and his grandfather Abraham. His mother was a prophetess. (See Gen. 30:23.)
2. His Theological Career. (a) The dreamer. (See Gen. 37:5, 9, 10.). The Lord gave him two prophetic dreams. As an evidence that these dreams were something more than the result of physical conditions, or day-thoughts we have the jealousy aroused by their recital. It appears, too, that the promptings of the evil one were not limited to the minds of Joseph's brothers. Seemingly, both of his brothers and his father were afraid of those dreams, and this very fear was certain proof that they believed in them. Joseph innocently found himself hated by his brethren and. Chided by his father for dreaming dreams which were interpreted as prophetic, not by him but by others. (b) His Inspirational Superiority as a Business Man. (Gen. 39:2-5.) (c) His Defense of Chastity in the Name of God. (Gen. 39:9.) Note the ethics of the first part of Joseph's defense, and the religion of the last part of it. (d) An Interpreter of Dreams. The Prisoner's Dreams. (Gen. 40.) The theological value of this reference is in the question, "Do not interpretations belong to God?" Prison walls may hold the body of a seer, but they cannot curtail the vision of his seership. The King's Dream. (Gen. 41.) The magicians failed before they tried. Joseph, in answer to the request of the king for an interpretation, declared himself unable to give the interpretation by say-
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 495
ing, "It is not in me.' Then with the faith of which James speaks, the faith with which Joseph Smith went to the Grove, Joseph declared: "God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace." This was the utterance of a prophet. How much time it took for Joseph to ask God for wisdom is not stated, but the prophecy was fulfilled by the Lord who gave Joseph the power to see the coming events for Egypt, and authorized him to reveal what he saw. And so we see Joseph, the persecuted, the once slave, the recent prisoner, now in all the majesty of a prophet, seer, and revelator, standing before a troubled monarch and revealing truth for the subsequent preservation of Egypt and his father's household from starvation.
3. The Lord's Promise to Joseph. (a) Promises concerning a deliverer of Israel from Egyptian bondage. (See Book of Mormon, II Nephi 3:10, 17.) Joseph as a seer saw the bondage of his people, but this bondage did not come in his day. Israel was free in Egypt as long as Joseph lived. (Gen. 47:12.); (b) Promises concerning the coming of Joseph Smith the Seer. (II Nephi 3:7, 8, 9, 15.)
4. The Death of Joseph. With the passing of Joseph it appears that authority to lead in the name of the Lord was taken from Israel in the earth. With its departure Israel's woes began to increase. While Joseph lived Israel was the honored guest of Egypt; soon after he was gone Israel became slaves of the Egyptians. (Gen. 47:13; Exodus 1:13-22.) The light of revelation, went out and Egyptian darkness of mind prevailed. However, the heroism of the Israelite women seems without parallel. They bore children in the midst of serfdom. It must have been their belief in the prediction of Joseph concerning the coming of a deliverer, and their faith in the promise made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that made it possible for them to face the future, bearing and rearing families that aroused the jealousy. Of the Egyptians and created alarm in the government. Nothing could daunt the women of Israel from obeying the first commandment.
B. A BRIEF SUMMARY
Standing at the end of the Abrahamic Dispensation and looking back to the beginning one cannot fail to see the hand-dealing of the Lord with a few of His elect, for the benefit of the whole
496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
human family, and in the presence of it all one is ready to exclaim, "What hath God wrought." Great families were brought into existence both by the covenant line of Abraham's posterity and the non-covenant line. Isaac was favored of the Lord (See Gen. 17:19) but Ishmael was not forgotten (See Gen. 17:20). God gave Jacob twelve sons and he also provided for Esau to be the progenitor of a race of dukes. (Gen. 36:40-43.) As to Egypt, God made that pagan nation a center of spiritual gifts, and a source of temporal salvation through the instrumentality of the one Israelite, Joseph. Where is the record of any revelation in the land of Egypt. While Joseph was in Egypt? The Abrahamic Dispensation was one of miracles. It was a dispensation of miracles from the calling of Abraham out from an idolatrous people to the calling of Israel into pagan Egypt. Divine interposition was manifest in behalf of the great and the small. The prayer of Abraham for deliverance from the knife of the Egyptian priest was answered, and the cry of the lad Ishmael for water was heard by the Lord. In each case, an angel came to the rescue. The inspiration that led to the union of Isaac and Rebecca was shared by both; the same God that guided Jacob, gave to Rachel the spirit of prophecy. The pre-mortal gradation of spirits was shown to the dispensator, but whether he revealed it to his people or not is not of record, but he wrote it and it comes to us through the revelator Joseph Smith. (See Book of Abraham.)
Questions and Problems.
1. Give scriptural evidence that Rachel was blessed with the spirit of prophecy
2. How do you account for Joseph's dreams being taken so seriously by his brethren?
3. If we are to believe Joseph's own testimony, what was the source of his business success?
4. Show that both ethics and religion formed a part of Joseph's defense of his chastity.
5. Wherein was Joseph (a) a seer, (b) a prophet, (c) a revelator when interpreting the king's dreams?
6. How did Joseph try to comfort his brethren and save them from a continuance of the cuts of conscience? (Gen. 45:4-8.)
7. Connect theologically the lives of Joseph, sold into Egypt, and Joseph Smith the Prophet, through the Book of Mormon.
8. Name the three great provisions made in God's promise to Abraham. (Gen. 22:17, 18.)
9. How is the Pearl of Great Price related to the Abrahamic Dispensation?
10. Discuss the Abrahamic Dispensation as one of family building.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 497
11. What new revelation of record was given in the Abrahamic Dispensation?
12. Discuss the absence of miracles of healing in the Abrahamic Dispensation.
LESSON II (Second Week in November)
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR NOVEMBER
"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things." (Doc. And Cov. Sec 59:7.)
1, Thanksgiving Day is the one national festival which turns on home life. 2. It is an annual time of thanksgiving for the mercies and bounty of the closing year. 3. For the blessings and mercies we have enjoyed, thank Him who gave them. 4. Resolve to make the coming year still better and bigger with more of service and less of self. 5. Have the children tell how and why this custom of celebrating Thanksgiving Day was established. 6. Mothers should embrace every opportunity to teach their children the blessing of thankfulness. 7. A special prayer of thanksgiving in the home on Thanksgiving Day would be productive of great good. 8. Let us all cultivate the spirit of thankfulness on all days of the year.
LESSON III (Third Week in November)
Literature
HENRY VAN DYKE
Henry Van Dyke has done an extraordinary thing, in the field of letters, by writing essays that are as popular as the novel at a time when the novel has crowded the essay into remote and dusty corners of the library shelves. Dr Van Dyke has a long list of prose works to the credit of his ability and industry. Among them readers generally will recognize such titles as the "Blue Flower," "The Other Wise Man," "Fisherman's Luck," "The First Christmas Tree," "The Open Door," as well as a score of other works, for Dr. Van Dyke's books have been good sellers. They are wholesome to the last degree and fortunately for the reading public, they have found their way into many homes.
498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Henry Van Dyke was born in Germantown, Pa., on November 10, 1852. He is the son of the Reverend Henry Jackson and Henrietta Ashmead. He was graduated from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, in 1869, and in 1873 was awarded his Bachelor of Arts degree at Princeton University. Dr. Van Dyke has studied extensively both at home and abroad. Successive periods have found him in the Princeton Theological Seminary, University of Berlin, Washington and Jefferson University, Wesleyan, and Pennsylvania Universities, so that his education is cosmopolitan in its nature. In the year 1877 he was ordained a member of the Presbyterian Ministry. He was married December 13, 1881, to Miss Ellen Reid of Baltimore. Dr. Van Dyke has carried three lines of work in his life. To many he is known as a minister of the gospel; to others as a Professor of Literature, for he was Professor of Literature in Princeton University until his appointment by President Wilson as Minister to the Netherlands and Luxembourg. His third line of work is that of a writer, and to this we owe the long line of books that may be found bearing his name in libraries all over the country. He filled the post of minister to the Netherlands and Luxembourg with distinction, resigning after several years of service. Many of the readers of the Magazine will recall his visit to Salt Lake City, and the West, when he traveled in a party headed by William Howard Taft, in the interest of World Peace. He makes his home at Avalon, Princeton. No doubt his interest in his fellow man as a teacher of religion is responsible for such books as "The Story of the Psalms," "Sermons to Young Men," "The Gospel for a World of Sin;" while his position as Professor of Literature led him to write "The Poetry of Tennyson," "Modern American Writers," etc. His poetry has attracted a good many readers, and to that phase of his literary work we shall more particularly devote this lesson. Indian summer may have passed when Van Dyke's poem, bearing that title, is considered, yet lingering memories of it will assist class members to appreciate the touches of the haze of the season, and other characteristics of Indian summer, that appear in the poem.
INDIAN SUMMER
A silken curtain veils the skies, And half conceals from pensive eyes The bronzing tokens of the fall;
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 499
A calmness broods upon the hills, And summer's parting dream distils A charm of silence over all.
The stacks of corn, in brown array, Stand waiting through the tranquil day, Like tattered wigwams on the plain; The tribes that find a shelter there Are phantom peoples, forms of air, And ghosts of vanished joy and pain.
At evening when the crimson crest Of sunset passes down the West, I hear the whispering host returning; On far-off fields, by elm and oak, I see the lights, I smell the smoke,— The camp-fires of the Past are burning.
Nothing is more natural than that Henry Van Dyke, who is a member of the ministry, should write poems, occasionally, that have a touch of one who has devoted his life to teaching the gospel, as he understands it. In an organization including as many mothers, as we have in the Relief Society, we feel it would be a mistake not to include the poem called "A Mother's Birthday."
A MOTHER'S BIRTHDAY
Lord Jesus, Thou hast known A mother's love and tender care: And Thou wilt hear, While for my own Mother most dear I make this birthday Prayer:
Protect her life, I pray, Who gave the gift of life to me; And may she know, From day to day. The deepening glow Of joy that comes from Thee.
As once upon her breast Fearless and well content I lay, So let her heart On Thee at rest, Feel fear depart And trouble fade away.
500 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Ah, hold her by the hand, As once her hand held mine; And though she may Not understand Life's winding way, Lead her in peace divine.
I cannot pay my debt For all the love that she has given; But Thou, love's Lord, Wilt not forget Her due reward,— Bless her in earth and heaven.
Ah! Hold her by the hand, As once her hand held mine; And though she may Not understand Life's winding way, Lead her in peace divine.
Henry Van Dyke spent much of his time in Europe, consequently his poems are full of touches that call to mind well known places in Europe. In 1908 the lonely island of Sicily was shaken by an earthquake, that wrought a great deal of destruction. Sicily is one of the spots that calls the traveler back again and again, because nature has been so lavish with lovely trees and beautiful bright-colored flowers, and a blue sea and a blue sky. Mr. Van Dyke feels the beauty of this favored spot of earth, which he recounts in a poetic way, in his poem called "Sicily," written at the time of the earthquake:
SICILY
O garden isle, beloved by Sun and Sea, Whose bluest billows kiss thy curving bays, Whose light infolds thy hills with golden rays, Filling with fruit each dark-leaved orange-tree, What hidden hatred hath the Earth for thee, That once again, in these dark, dreadful days, Breaks forth in trembling rage, and swiftly lays Thy beauty waste in wreck and agony!
Is Nature, then, a strife of jealous powers, And man the plaything of unconscious fate? Not so, my troubled heart! God reigns above, And man is greatest in his darkest hours. Walking amid the cities desolate, Behold the Son of God in human love!
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 501
Much as he loves Europe, like all patriotic citizens he loves his own land best. We include in the lesson two of his poems that express his appreciation for the land of his birth, and the land of which he is an honored citizen. The first is "America," the second "America For Me." This last poem is a very great favorite, and is often made a part of patriotic programs, so we have selected it as the last to be considered in the lesson on Henry Van Dyke:
AMERICA
I love thine inland seas, Thy groves of giant trees, Thy rolling plains, Thy river's mighty sweep, Thy mystic canyons deep, Thy mountains wild and steep All thy domains;
Thy silver Eastern strands, Thy golden Gate that stands Wide to the West; Thy flowery Southland fair, Thy sweet and crystal air,— O land beyond compare, Thee I love best!
March 1906.
AMERICA FOR ME
'Tis fine to see the Old World, and travel up and down Among the famous palaces and cities of renown, To admire the crumbly castles and the statues of the kings, But now I think I've had enough of antiquated things.
So it's home again, and home again, America for me! My heart is turning home again, and there I long to be, In the land of youth and freedom beyond the ocean bars, Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.
Oh, London is a man's town, there's power in the air; And Paris is a woman's town with flowers in her hair; And it's sweet to dream in Venice, and it's great to study Rome, But when it comes to living there is no place like home.
I like the German fir-woods, in green battalions drilled; I like the gardens of Versailles with flashing fountains filled; But, oh, to take your hand, my dear, and ramble for a day In the friendly western woodland where Nature has her way!
502 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I know that Europe's wonderful, yet something seems to lack: The Past is too much with her, and the people looking back. But the glory of the present is to make the future free,— We love our land for what she is and what she is to be.
Oh, it's home again, and home again, America for me! I want a ship that's westward bound to plough the rolling sea, To the blessed land of Room Enough beyond the ocean bars, Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.
June, 1909.
Questions and Problems
1. Select the words and phrases in the poem "Indian Summer" that are descriptive of the season.
2. Select some phrases from his poem "A Mother's Birthday," that indicate that he is truly a devout man and that he has faith in Jesus Christ.
3. Has Henry Van Dyke helped you to feel the beauty of Sicily, if so, what means has he taken to do so? State the location of Sicily. If convenient show the class members where it is on the map.
4. Has he stimulated your patriotism? If so, tell how?
5. If there are members of the class who saw Mr. Van Dyke on his visit to the West, let them tell the class something about his appearance and his address.
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in November)
Social Service
FAMILY RESPONSIBILITY
The discussion of various types of special problems, which have been analyzed in the previous lessons, all have a definite relation to family welfare, and the development of normal family life. No matter what particular outstanding problem presents itself in a family, it can never be treated successfully, if it is not related to the whole family structure. The sick mother, the man out of work, the delinquent girl or the runaway boy who come to the attention of social agencies are not isolated phenomena, but are the obvious manifestations of some family failure or maladjustment. As social work becomes more specialized, there is a tendency for agencies dealing with special types of problems to observe and study only the particular outstanding manifestation. The physician and nurse are more aware of the diagnosed tuberculosis or heart disease, than of the home or work environment which produced the disease. The probation officer is
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 503
often more concerned with equitable property settlement of the boy who breaks windows or steals a bicycle than with the social forces that motivated the act. The child-placing agency may emphasize the advantages to the child of finding a new home for it, without weighing the effect on the parents of removing the child from its home. The teacher may attempt to find the causes of dullness or unruliness in the activities of the schoolroom, when the real source of the difficulty may be in a sordid or unsympathetic home. The home is the most important single factor in determining the health, the behavior, and the progress of individuals. The family is the unit of society, through which the individual makes his first interpretation of life and makes his first adaptation to the art of living. While it is true that his degree of health and his measure of intelligence are largely determined at birth, the development of his powers is determined by his later experiences. The home, more than any other factor, will promote or curtail his health, habits, attitudes and conduct. The family is the medium through which the child gains his social heritage. The early environment will often determine whether success, happiness and mental physical health or the opposite, failure, morbidness, mental and physical impairment are to be the fate of the individual. It must be remembered that the first five or six years of a child's life are the most important in development of physical vigor, in forming habits, and in acquiring social attitudes. It is obvious that a child reared in a refined, orderly home, in a pleasant neighborhood, has a set of experiences completely different from the child born in squalid, poorly managed home, in a rough and ugly neighborhood. While the unfortunate child's responses and reactions cannot be exactly predicted, yet it is apparent that his unhappy environment is a factor in his life's experiences that will affect his development. To understand and treat health, behavior, or economic problems, requires a knowledge of the family fabric. To be unaware of the character of the family and to ignore its influence, will make any social treatment end in failure. The individual is such an integral part of family social unit, that any adjustment made without understanding the relation of the individual to the family is bound to be ineffective and even harmful. When the relation of the individual to the family is understood, it is then possible to measure the social factors in the situation and to place a proper emphasis on the particular problem. To be specific, one occasion for social study was
504 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that of a sixteen-year-old girl who had run away from home. The girl felt that her responsibilities at home were too strenuous. Her mother was a widow, working away from home, living on a limited income, and the girl's part in the unattractive home life, was caring for the children. She was tired of the routine, and was ambitious to study stenography. An interested respectable friend was willing to let her work for her during the day, as housemaid, and attend evening school. A modern individualist would perhaps maintain that the girl's preferences should give her the right to plan her life as she wished. But the facts of her own limitations and her part in the family unit should not be ignored. It was learned that the girl had just finished grammar school and had been rather dull at school work. Her enthusiasm for further study was inspired more by the prospect of being an attractive, well-dressed office girl earning fair wages than by any ability or aptitude for the work. It is perfectly understandable that her uneventful life in a drab home, would inspire such an ambition, and that desperation would drive her to run away. She was willing to admit that her earnings and her help were needed at home, and she had many misgivings about her desertion of her mother and younger sisters. The solution to the girl's difficulty, viewed in relation to her family, was not in the escape she had planned. With no assurance of her own success or happiness, it would be questionable whether her desertion from the family group should be encouraged. Her desire to earn money and be relieved of home drudgery, however, should be given consideration. After a time this was accomplished, and it was then possible for the mother to spend more of her time in the home. It happened that the girl did get her wish to be employed in an office, but she was spared the expense and almost certain failure that her first plan presented. The family unit presents this interdependence of its members in various forms, emotional as well as economic. The members of a family are bound by strong common interests and affections, and perhaps the greatest satisfaction and happiness in life results from the family comradeship and sharing of one another's successes. If the emotional bond and strong family affection exists, as it does in most homes, it is quite natural for the members to share one another's burdens in time of difficulty. Family affection and family pride usually come to the rescue when one of its clan has met with some misfortune. The fact that the family is an economic unit makes dependence upon one another only natural. The parents during
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 505
their best years devote their lives to their children. As the parents, with age, lose their earning power, it is to be supposed that the children, now grown, assume the financial burdens. The first responsibility for any financial problem should be assumed by the family, and not by church, state, or social agencies. Family responsibility does not end with the mutual care of its members. The family, too, is a part of a larger unit— the community and the race. If the family fails to function satisfactorily, the good of the larger units must be considered, and the state reserves the right to interfere. With its activities—removing children or incarcerating irresponsible parents. But the strength of society and the fullest realization of individual expression is to be found in wholesome family life, where individuals hold together by a strong natural bond, and work together for their mutual good. (Ref. Normal Life, pp. 183-185.)
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. How does the family life influence an individual's development?
2. Why should an individual's problem always be related to his family?
3. Why was it advisable to discourage the girl in the incident from her first plan?
4. Why should families be responsible for the care of its helpless?
5. Why are family attachments usually essential to normal living?
Mail Orders Filled Same Hour Received
Write Vera Keene The Paris Personal Mail Order Shopper PARCEL POST TO YOU.
The Paris Co. 28-38 E. Bdwy.
This is the Best Flour
There isn't a better judge of flour on earth than my mother. She uses the White Fawn Flour. Merit commands recognition. Consumers of this flour are steadily growing in number. All are pleased and none dissatisfied with the result of its use. Be sure to always ask for White Fawn flour.
Telephone Wasatch 1922
Salt Lake & Jordan Mill & Elevator Co, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
High Educational Standing!
Educate your children in an institution that is recognized the country over for the emphasis it places on serious-minded studentship.
High Scholarship
Only hard working, earnest students are desired. The University of Utah standards for entrance, study and graduation are so high that they are recognized and accepted throughout the educational world.
Freshmen Register September 24 Other students, September 28. Class work starts September 29
For further information write The President University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY
Our Advertisers are our friends. Remember them when Shopping.
AMY BROWN LYMAN, Asst. Mgr. Relief Society Magazine
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Three Great News Services Serve The Deseret News
In addition we have many features such as:
Aunt Het And several other good comics.
Kathleen Kay And the Hearttotium department.
Dorothy Dix The world's most widely read newspaper writer.
Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 2nd Anniversary Sale
Children's Fine Ribbed Hose, Sizes 5 to 9½. Reg. 40c value 4 pr. 85c. Colors: Black, Cordovan, Grey, Deer, Camel, Tan, Elkskin
Children's English Rib, Fine Mercerized. Reg. 50c value 3 pr. $1.00. Colors as above.
Misses Fibre Silk. Reg. 75c value 49c.
Must buy quantity as given but colors and sizes may be assorted.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MRS CARRIE GOASLINIE 463 5TH AVE CITY
BLUE PINE EXTRACTS are guaranteed pure, full strength and wonderfully rich in flavor. Your cakes and pastry will be improved by using Blue Pine Vanilla and Lemon Extracts.
"SAY BLUE PINE TO YOUR GROCER"
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XII OCTOBER, 1925 No. 10
The Status of Women in Japan.....................I. A. Ray Olpin 517 The Other Side.................................Alice Morrill 522 Editorial—Women of the East and the Veil..................... 523 American Literature Coming to its Own......................... 525 Condolence......................................................... 525 The Dawn.......................................Grace Ingles Frost 526 Phyllis Morton's Birthday Gift......................Myrtle M. Dean 527 Diet for the Woman of Forty Plus........................Jean Cox 535 Of Interest to Women...............................Lalene H. Hart 541 Utah State Conference of Social Workers....................... 543 Our Heritage...................................Josephine Spencer 544 Notes from the Field..............................Amy Brown Lyman 545 Guide Lessons for December Love Patriotism.......................................Susan Coolidge 561
CONTENTS
Autumn...........................................Annie Wells Cannon 507 The Editor Abroad.................................Alice L. Reynolds 509 Self-Love.........................................Elsie E. Barrett 516
Frontispiece
Room 28 Bishop's Bldg. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
For our success we are indebted to our friends
Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 65 West First South
Call Your Nearest CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES
Our 30c Brick deliciously different
PHONE WAS. 5225
GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN. IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP
Southern Pacific Lines
THREE TRAINS DAILY FROM SALT LAKE CITY AND OGDEN PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY. For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write. P. BANCROFT, General Agent. 41 South Main Street. Wasatch 3008 Wasatch 3078.
HEALTH
Not in books but in MILK you will find the secret of Health. We offer the city's finest milk and cream—as the majority of your neighbors will tell you.
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
159 West 1st South; Wasatch 2177
ASK YOUR DEALER FOR
Z. C. M. I. FACTORY-MADE
Children's Allovers Khaki and Khaki and White-Backed Peggy Clothes, for Denim for Girls— Dutch Kut, for Boys—
The Famous Mountaineer Overalls Give Splendid Satisfaction
MOTHERS are more concerned with the happiness of their children than they are with their own happiness. Call in our store during conference and let us show you the books and toys that will make you all happy.
Deseret Book Company "Ask us about it" Salt Lake City
Ashton-Jenkins Co.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
44 East South Temple P. O. Box 1793
We'll Finance You to Buy and Install HEATROLA Now!
HEATS 3 TO 7 ROOMS
Just like a furnace with uniform heat all over the house. The Heatrola looks like a phonograph. You don't have to take it down in the summer. Burns no more fuel than an ordinary heater yet Keeps the whole house warm. Holds fire 50 hours on one charge of coal. It is the heating marvel of the age.
OVER 600 HEATROLAS SOLD IN SALT LAKE
Users are delighted. The Heatrola has proven its worth. It is no longer an experiment. Do not be misled, there are many Heatrola imitations on the market that are supposed to be just as good. Buy the original. Buy the genuine.
Mail Orders Given Prompt Attention We Pay the Freight Anywhere
CO-OP FURNITURE CO. The Reliable Mail Order House
W. N. Williams, Pres. And Mgr. Clarissa S, Williams, Vice Pres. Exclusive Heatrola Agents. 383 to 37 So. Main St., Salt Lake City
1069 E. 21st SOUTH:
Price List for Fall and Winter 1925-26
WE HAVE NO AGENTS, BUY DIRECT AND SAVE FROM 25% TO 30%
No. 51 L. D. S. Garments Fine Rib only in L. D. S. New Style..........$1.25
Any of the following numbers can be made up in EITHER NEW or OLD STYLE L. D. S. GARMENT or MEN'S or LADIES' Union Suits,
No. 50 Flat Weave 95c No. 52 Fine Rib $1.00 No. 54 Medium Cotton $1.15 No. 56 Unbleached $1.00 No. 58 Heavy Unbleached $1.25 No. 60 Fine Bleached $1.25 No. 66 Mercerized $1.50 No. 10 ½ Wool $1.50 No. 69 ¼ Wool $1.75 No. 74 Silk and Wool $2.75
For MEN'S Union Suits ONLY
No. 92 All Worsted Wool Grey.................................$ 9.50 No. 96 All Worsted Wool Black................................ 9.50
All Wool Blankets 5 lb. Double 66-80......................... 8.50 All Wool Men's Sweater Coats................................. 6.25 All Wool Men's Shirts........................................ 5.75 All Wool Overcoats...........................................$18.50
If you are not perfectly satisfied with any of our goods, we refund the money
WRITE FOR SAMPLES
Why Pay More For Ladies' Silk Hose When You Can Get A Pure Silk Hose in Any Shade for $1.00 $7.00
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Competent Workers Are Well Paid
There is dignity, satisfaction and financial reward in a good office position. Our courses qualify you in a short time for one of these most desirable places.
Let us show you what our graduates have done and are doing. Let us prove the value of our training.
Fall Term Begins September 8 Call or Write Now!
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Our Big Offer for October Only
A Complete home laundry MASTER Washer SIMPLEX Ironer DOUBLE portable self draining tub FOLDING tub or basket stand WHITE enamelled table top for ironer
$5 DOWN Balance on convenient monthly payments
An opportunity not to be overlooked!
Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service
Temple and Burial Clothes Complete Suits for Men and Women Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
BULBS PLANT NOW
SPECIAL TRIAL ORDER OFFER FOR THE OPEN GARDEN
6 P.-W's Hyacinths, mixed. 6 Double Early Tulips. Named 6 Giant Darwin Tulips, mixed. 6 Poet's Narcissus. 6 Spanish Iris.
Retail Value of Above, $2.60; All (Postpaid) For $2.00
Peonies, Phlox, Gaillardia, Shasta Daisies and scores of other hardy plants should be planted this Fall for best results. We carry the largest assortment of Fall Bulbs and Plants in the West. Write for Free Catalog
P.-W's Seed and Nursery Specialists
SALT LAKE CITY
"KNOWN ALL OVER THE STATE OF UTAH"
"We won't buy till we get our new home," or "we won't buy till we see if the children take their lessons." These are common "excuses" we meet—but both objections are now obliterated by our easy rental plan. Come in—see us about it. No obligation.
Apply all Rent on Later Purchase
Salt Lake City Telephones: Was. 5132 and Hyland 180 Ogden, 466 24th St. Telephone 821-W
In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience.
We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at 260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Autumn
Hold fast. My hand, and walk with me Far from the noisy town Where quiet fields all golden lie And leaves are russet brown.
'Tis autumn time, and on the hills The purple shadows lie While fleecy clouds like phantom ships Are sailing in the sky.
'Tis harvest time, and all around One breathes the perfumed air Of ripened fruits, and garnered grains, And clover blossoms rare.
Come, softly tread the fallen leaves, That carpet bright the ground, For thrushes and bright orioles Thrill all the world with sound.
'Tis now we learn most wondrous things These days that are the rarest, How in the harvest time of life, The years may be the fairest.
Then hold my hand, tf winter comes Along our lonely way We'll still recall the garnered sheaves, And scents, and sounds, and scarlet leaves, And little children's play.
—Annie Wells Cannon.
By Alfred Lambourne
AUTUMN
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XII OCTOBER, 1925 No. 10
The Editor Abroad
THE CITY OF ROME AND THE JUBILEE YEAR
By Alice L. Reynolds
Rome is above all else a city of churches. In the number and magnificence of its churches it doubtless exceeds all other cities of the world. Fortunate it is for the beauty and stability of these churches that Italy is the home of some of the best marble quarries, for the quarries of Italy produce not only a very fine quality of marble, but marble possessing a good many different colors. "We can't eat or burn our marble" was the cry of the Italian during the war. Very true, but they can and have made use of it to build most extraordinary churches. Rome has a reputation for fountains, and it deserves its reputation. The mere mention of its name doubtless brings to mind its seven hills, its yellow Tiber, its gigantic ruins, seen in the Colosseum and famous Roman baths. All these things are to be found in Rome, but they do not consume the attention of the traveler as do the churches; for heathen temples, Roman baths, and senate chambers have all, in turn, been converted into churches by the zealous Christians of the Eternal City. Indeed, the casual tourist, seems to find quite enough of everything he is led to expect to see in Rome. "I am completely 'fed up' on the Caesars," a young woman remarked in the hearing of one of our party. Not a member of our little group but who heard somebody say she had. Had enough of ruins and enough of churches in Rome. Yet these churches are not only very numerous; they are, also, very richly embellished with gold and silver and precious stones, brought from many climes. Yet far more precious than their gold and silver and rare and costly stones are the art treasures to be found in every part of the church. Yes, it is literally, every part, for their floors contain most interesting mosaics, while upon their walls and ceilings are paintings of the great masters of Italy. Great masters, are not idle words when one writes of Italian painters and Italian sculptors. It is doubtful whether at any other time in the world's history such an array of artistic talent has ever been
510 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
brought together as the group assembled to paint the churches of Florence and of Rome. It is the usual thing, perhaps, to connect pomp and ceremony with kings and queens and their courts. The years 1910 and 1911 staged a good deal of that sort of thing in Europe. Francis Joseph, of Austria, received during 1910, a goodly number of the crowned heads of Europe. In 1911 the king and queen of Italy rode through the land, in state, in recognition of the 40 years of Italian Unity. This also was the year of the coronation of King George and Queen Mary of England. Whether this was the last great spurt of display on the part of the royalty of Europe remains to be seen. However that may be, with the great World War much of that sort of thing passed away. Today, perhaps, pomp and ceremony exists more truly in the Roman and Greek Catholic churches than anywhere else. Be that as it may, one thing is certain, that such gorgeousness of costume is seldom seen as that in which the Pope and cardinals and high church officials appear at the various special ceremonials of the church. Such a blending of crimson and gold, purple and silver, white satin brocade and the like may hardly be seen elsewhere, as it is seen in the vestments of high church officials of the Roman Catholic and Greek Catholic churches. Exhibitions of these vestments are to be seen in Vienna and other Roman Catholic centers. They always attract attention because of the richness of material, the beauty of color and the great perfection of the embroidery. The celebration in Rome, in 1911, belonged to the King; this year it belongs to the Pope, consequently matters pertaining to the church are everywhere in evidence. In the emphasis of church matters the Rome of this year is different to the Rome of other years. This year is Jubilee year, or Holy year, in Rome. As the new year was ushered in, Pope Pius XI, in rich attire with the papal crown upon his head, approached the 'Porta Santo," or holy door of St. Peters, and knocking at it with a special hammer opened it for the first time in twenty-five years. Since that time pilgrims from every part of the world have been pouring through its portals. The church processional is almost a daily occurrence; one is almost sure to encounter it, if he visits St. Peters on Sunday, and on the other days of the week he is apt to do so. More than once we found ourselves part of a procession we had planned to be in. These pilgrims pass through this door with rosary in hand, chanting their prayers and kneeling before the various altars for special worship. Yet St. Peters is only one of a group of four churches in Rome that has a holy door. St. Paul's without the gate, St. John Lateran, and St. Maria Maggiore each has such a door, through which processions of pilgrims are daily passing. We were given to understand that the Roman Catholic who passes all four of these doors and also sees the Pope,
THE EDITOR ABROAD 511
according to regulations, is granted complete indulgence by the church. Our party passed through each of these doors in each of the churches, mainly from a belief that we shall not be in Rome the next time they are opened. Holy year has changed the appearance of the streets of Rome. Rome, that has always counted among its population a goodly number of priests and monks, as well as higher church officials, has greatly augmented that number during the present year. At present the streets of Rome are literally alive with men in priestly robes. One group may be wearing the scarlet robe of the student priest of Rome, another a black robe with purple or white-lined sash, perhaps one may meet a large delegation of visiting priests in the regulation robe and hat of black. We met such a group one afternoon when I counted two hundred and eighty, more were in sight but my companions intimated that I was keeping them waiting so I hastened on without knowing the exact number. The churches, too, have undergone changes for the year. St. Peters without shows the marks of age, as it has a right to do, but within it is all bright and new. It has been thoroughly cleansed and is ready to receive the thousands who assemble every week for special service or to take part in one of the church processionals. The beautiful paintings of Raphael and Guido Reni done in Mosaics upon its walls are seen in freshness by the assembled throng. In the churches some things are to be seen quite unusual in their character. In one we saw what we took to be the embalmed remains of a monk dressed in the brown robe and hood of his order. An electric light made it possible for one passing, to see, for his burial place was a crypt in the church. We were told that this monk was to be canonized, or in other words made a saint during this year. In another church, which we think at this writing was St. John Lateran, we saw a Pope with a gilded mask such as one sees covering the face of an Egyptian mummy, dressed in the complete costume in which a pope is dressed for burial. About his waist was a girdle to which symbols of his office were attached.
St. Peters at Rome
512 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
When we visited Assisi, the birthplace and burial place of St. Francis, the saint after whom the city of San Francisco is named, we found a priest in charge who has been called from his post of duty in New York, to act as guide to English speaking people visiting Assisi this year. The Pope is holding many audiences, both of a regular and a special character. As our party, consisting of Miss Elliott, Miss Ollorton, Miss Martain and myself, were at one of the regular audiences, we thought our readers might be interested in knowing something about what must be done in order to see the prisoner of the Vatican. It might not be amiss, before we continue, to call to mind why the Pope remains a prisoner in the Vatican. The Pope was at one time temporal monarch over a group of Italian states. When he was king of Rome he walked or drove through the city of Rome just as he chose. But with the coming of Victor Emanuel into Rome he had to relinquish his temporal power. The theory is that he is temporal ruler over the Vatican grounds, comprising St. Peters and the Vatican, and for this reason he retains a special guard at the palace. Just so long as the Pope does not step without the walls of the Vatican garden he is the subject of no earthly potentate. Should he step beyond the walls he would immediately become the subject of the Italian king. This he refuses to do, so that he is a self-imposed prisoner on behalf of a theory or belief the church wishes to maintain. The first thing our party did, in order to obtain an audience with the Pope, was to visit the American Consul in Rome, and make known our wish. He gave us a letter to the head of the American College, stating that we desired to attend one of the public audiences of the Pope. The head of the American College proved to be a very pleasant young priest who replied to our question in relation to the proper etiquette to be observed, that we must appear in black dresses, or at any rate dark ones, high at the neck and with sleeves to the wrist, and that we must wear a black mantilla over our heads. The next step was to present the letter given us at the college to one of the secretaries at the Vatican. After discovering the special door that leads to the Vatican and passing through it, and also by the Swiss guards, with their quaint antiquated suits of yellow and red, and sometimes other colors, we were admitted to an ante-room that led into the room where the secretary was to be found. There were many persons in the line ahead of us so that we had a long wait. Finally we were admitted, only to begin another long wait. Miss Elliott did say something about the patience of Job, I think, but at last our turn came to state our desire. We were led to believe that our card of invitation would likely be for Wednesday, consequently we were not a little surprised to receive at our hotel Sunday evening, tickets of admittance for Monday accompanied by a little folder telling us how we should be dressed. The question of providing the appropriate costume caused considerable sport among ourselves. We were not all carrying black dresses or even dark dresses, so we looked about to see what might be done by way of borrowing from one another. Miss Elliott, our specialist on dress, looked over the possibilities. Finally by filling up the necks of our dresses with pieces of black crepe-de-chine and lengthening out the sleeves with the same material, we were able to comply with the request of officials; art considerations waived, your humble correspondent, I think, was the most conspicuous in this "fix up," for she was one of the group without a dark dress, so that she had to borrow Miss Elliott's, that proved to be longer than regulation fashion and rather larger all over than the case required. Finally we started in a Roman taxi-cab. On our way we had to stop at a shop near the Vatican, and get our mantillas, which had been arranged for the day before. The rent of the mantilla cost five liras, which is equivalent to 20c in American money at the present rate of exchange. Donning our mantillas we made our way to the Vatican. We thought we were a dowdy looking group but we passed inspection as subsequent events go to show. Presenting our tickets, once more, we passed the portals of the historic building, and once again we walked by the colorful Swiss guards, up a flight of stairs only to be met by some persons detailed to take our wraps. From there we passed through a large room into another large room with a cold-looking marble floor. In this room a good many people were assembled. Finally the rather sombre-appearance of the room was relieved by the entrance of a very fine looking man, in a magenta suit of brocade velvet with trousers to the knee and silk hose to match. We recognized him as one of the officials. We had been told that we might expect such a person, who would look over our costume, very carefully, and see if it was quite right. Consequently, when he came towards us we were just a little fearful. However, he beckoned us to follow him, which we did, into one of the richly carpeted and richly furnished rooms of the palace. While we have joked not a little, among ourselves, about this official approving of our dress, way down in our hearts we have been led to wonder whether the favor showed us, for we really feel that we were favored, did not come from the fact that he probably recognized us as Americans and perhaps had it in his heart to extend such courtesy as was in his power to the citizens of a nation who had not forgotten Europe in her hour of dire necessity. Whatever his motive, we were favored, for in a few moments we were advanced to another room where we were placed opposite the door where
514 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the Pope makes his first entrance for an audience, consequently we were able to see him for a few minutes before he came into the room that we occupied. One matter that attracts attention on an occasion of this sort is that a goodly number of persons take rosaries with them into the room to be blessed by the Pope. Roman Catholics undoubtedly do so for themselves and their relatives, while Protestants often do it that they may have an especially acceptable gift for a Roman Catholic friend. It was now a few minutes to one, the hour for the audience. Things began to shape. A number of young men put on the costumes of the special military guard, and arranged themselves in true military style against the wall. A moment later the Pope's secretary appeared, in a lavender-purple costume that with its lavish trimmings made it truly gorgeous. Now all was expectation. In a moment the Pope appeared in a costume consisting of a white broadcloth robe and cap of the Roman Catholic monk. Around his waist was a girdle bearing the insignia of office, St. Peter's keys that are found, always in the coat-of-arms of the Vatican. On the third finger of his right hand he wore the historic gold ring with the famous blue stone. We saw him pass about the room directly in front of us; then he came into the room. The
A Swiss Guard
THE EDITOR ABROAD 515
etiquette of an audience requires that persons shall kneel when the Pope enters. Beginning with the person near him on the right, the Pope passed along placing the four fingers of his right hand on the back of the right hand of the person he was greeting. Such a clasp makes it possible for persons who care to kiss the ring to do so. Roman Catholics usually do. Protestants perhaps more often, than not, feel the handclasp and the Pope passes on, all is carried on in such a fashion that both the Pope and the Protestant are saved embarrassment. After the Pope had greeted everyone in the room, separately, he went into the corner nearing the next room he was approaching, and repeated some Latin phrases which were responded to by the Roman Catholics in the room. He was evidently blessing them and blessing the rosary that they carried. This experience recalled a story that Francis Marion Crawford, the American author, used to tell in his public lectures. He said that in the time of Pius IX, some Protestant youths appeared in line one day who refused to bow, the Pope said to them gently in passing, "Would you refuse the blessing of an old man," at which suggestion the youth conformed to regulations. The same thing occurred during the time of Leo XIII. The young men appeared to him to be standing in open defiance, and, without ceremony, the Pope called the guards, saying to them as they appeared, "Remove those statues into the corridors," and they were removed. On Tuesday of the same week that we were admitted to the audience a special service was held at St. Peters at which the Pope presided. All members of our party were given tickets, but as it appeared to mean donning the black gowns again, two members said that inasmuch as they had already seen the Pope they 'would let that suffice. Miss Elliott and I attended the service. Presenting our large and colorful cards of admittance we passed into St. Peters and found ourselves in a crowd, or rather a "jam." Before the service began several persons had to be taken out, who were quite overcome, because of the closeness of the room. One lady who attended a special service there, told us that in her attempt to put her hand into her own pocket, she put it into the pocket of her neighbor, a thing that would be very easy to do. However, after what seemed to us a rather long wait, because all were standing, the curtains were drawn apart at one of the side doors that leads from St. Peters into the Vatican. A procession headed by church dignitaries, of high order, in magnificent church vestments began a slow march towards the high or papal altar in St. Peters. Immediately after came the Pope, borne aloft in his highly ornamented gold car by a group of young' men in scarlet costumes, who carried the car on their shoulders. As the Pope appeared to the multitude they clapped. He waved his hand first to the right and then to the left, he was bestowing the papal blessing. As the car neared the altar the Pope descended and AN ELABORATE CHURCH PROCESSION took charge of the service. His costume on this occasion was much more elaborate than on the occasion of the audience, more perhaps like that of an earthly potentate, and less like that of a priest. Special services and special ceremonies understood and esteemed by the Roman Catholics have characterized Holy Year. Perhaps some notion of the sort of thing that has claimed the interest of the church, frequently, during this year may be had from the following item that appeared in a European newspaper under date of July 13, 1925: Home—Sunday. The last of the numerous ceremonies of canonization and beatification planned for this, the Holy Year, took place at St. Peters today, when the Pope closed the ceremonies for the beatification of Pierre Julien Eymard, the French founder of the congregation of priests and nuns of the Holy Sacrament. Self-Love Self-love! O what a sentiment! In narrow rut so closely shut, To others' pains indifferent. Self-love! Big I as precedent! So quickly hurt, will friends desert, Self-pity always evident. Self-love! Tenacious, eminent! A private pill, no thought can kill, Enclosed in selfish element. —Elsie E. Barrett. The Status of Women in Japan By A. Ray Olpin "It is the chief duty of a girl living in the parental house to practice filial duty towards her father and mother. But after marriage, her chief duty is to honor her father-in-law and mother-in-law—to honor them beyond her own father and mother —to love and reverence them with all ardor, and to tend them with every practice of filial piety. "She must not selfishly think first of her parents, and only secondly of her husband's relations. "As a woman rears up posterity, not to her own parents, but to her father-in-law and mother-in-law, she must value the latter ever more than the former, and tend them with all filial piety. Her visits, also, to the paternal house should be rare, after marriage." These few excerpts from Basil Hall Chamberlain's translation of Onno Daigakko, or The Greater Learning for Women, should sufficiently pave the way for the announcement that the Japanese father exclaims upon the birth of a daughter: "Five thousand dollars lost." The exclamation has even more direct application in the fact that, when the daughter dresses herself in mourning and "dies" to her father's house, to be resurrected in that of her father-in-law's; or, in other words, when the bride marries, she is expected to take with her a very complete dowry or trousseau, including household utensils, furniture and necessities in addition to a liberal supply of clothing. The father pays heavily to marry off his daughter. To quote again from the Onna Daigakko, which has been called the Golden Rules for Female Virtue: "From earliest youth, a girl should observe the line of demarcation separating women from men; and never, even for an instant, should she be allowed to see or hear the slightest impropriety." "A woman has no particular lord. She must look to her husband as her lord, and must serve him with all worship and reverence, not despising or thinking lightly of him. The great lifelong duty of a woman is obedience." "Let her never even dream of jealousy. If her husband be dissolute, she must expostulate with him, but never either nurse or vent her anger." ""A woman should be circumspect and sparing in her use of words; and never, even for a passing moment, should she slander others or be guilty of untruthfulness." 518 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "A woman must ever be on the alert, and keep a strict watch over her own conduct. In the morning she must rise early, and at night go late to rest. Instead of sleeping in the middle of the day, she must be intent on the duties of the household, and must not weary of weaving, sewing and spinning. Of tea and wine she must not drink overmuch, nor must she feed her eyes and ears with theatrical performances, ditties and ballads. To temples and other like places, where there is a great concourse of people, she should go but sparingly till she has reached the age of forty." "The five worst maladies that afflict the female mind are: indocility, discontent, slander, jealousy, and silliness. Without a doubt, these five maladies infest seven or eight out of every ten women, and it is from these that arises the inferiority of women to men. A woman should cure them by self-inspection and self-reproach."' The Greater Learning for Women, from which these instructions were taken, was written during the Tokugawa period by one Yekiken Kaibara, and was one of the most influential books of the time. Previous to this time, and especially during the Heian age, woman had been at the zenith of her power. Two of the finest pieces of literature in all Japanese history, Makura-no-soshi and Genji Monogatari, are the works of women. Literature of the Heian period and other earlier regimes infer and frequently state that women wielded a powerful influence. Accounts of two men fighting for the same lady, knights undertaking perilous journeys to gain the hand of fair ladies, a woman gaining a verdict in a breach-of-promise case, etc., all reveal much of the status of women before the Tokugawa shogunate. During the Heian period, laws regulating inheritance provided that all the children of the family be given equal shares. Then, as Professor S. Sassa points out, it was during the period of Japan's civil strife and during the Tokugawa age of peace that followed, when women lost her high place in the national mind. Under the Tokugawas, Confucianism flourished, and Confucianism gave women a low place in the scheme of civilization. Man was the lord, and woman the weaker vessel. Buddhism never attempted to discuss the relations of the sexes; excepting that religion taught men to "regard woman as one of the many evils of life, and warned him against love of her as the way to hell." With the re-establishment in power of the emperor, just what has been the effect upon the status of women? To answer this question, the courtship and marriage of a present-day maiden will be traced.: Although, as a matter of course, the Japanese maiden is expected to marry early in life, she never experiences any of the joys THE STATUS OF WOMEN IN JAPAN 519 of courtship. She is charming in the extreme, yet never forward. She is simply a modest, kind, faithful girl, forced by rigid customs to shun, rather than solicit, the attentions of the male sex. It would be terribly shocking to the people at large, and disastrous to the reputation of the young lady, should she be seen on the street, even at midday, in company with one of the opposite sex. And it would be most disgraceful for a young man to pay a visit to a reputable lady friend to court her affections. Nor does the youth of Japan seem to yearn for the companionship of the opposite sex. Separated early in the primary school, they pursue their courses of study in boys' and girls' schools. No co-ed schools are to be found in Japan and it was only recently that a few lady students were admitted into advance courses in the Imperial University of Tokyo. At the theatre and in church the men sit on one side of the building and the women on the other. As an example of the popular thought on this subject, comes the following experience. A young Japanese lady student of about sixteen years who attended our meetings in Osaka, told me that the Japanese boys were rapidly degrading, and that frequently they said "perfectly awful" things to the girls. "Why, just the other day, while riding on a street car, a boy made a vulgar remark to me," she confided. "He said: 'Kondo no nichiyobi raketto wo motte Nakashima koen ye kot!" While admitting that his language was very intimate, I could scarcely suppress a smile; for all he had said was: "Bring your racket and come to Nakashima park next Sunday." Yet for a boy to so address a girl in Japan was most improper. A number of influences in Japan of late seem to be at work slowly undermining the strong barrier between the sexes. However, these forces are not of the best type, and we fear the results will be evil. For example, the American movie productions are shown all over the empire; and even though the close censorship of the police requires all kissing scenes be cut out from the films, the romantic adventures of youth so often portrayed are perhaps to a great extent, responsible for the tragic romances we read of in nearly every daily paper. "Tragic romances" they are, because a tragedy is the inevitable result of falling in love in Japan. Unable to get their parents' consent for courtship or marriage, and knowing that elopement would bring disgrace not only upon themselves but upon their families, making happy life impossible here on this earth, the mutually infatuated couple have but one course to pursue, namely: to seek a new world to live in. Accordingly, the elopement is usually in the direction of some waterfall, sea or railroad track—some of the popular exits from this life. A day or so after the elopement, a letter may be discovered in which is 520 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE found a statement similar to this: 'Finding it impossible to live together in this existence, we have decided to journey to the next. Goodbye." Although these shinju, or double, suicides are not at all uncommon, even the reports of them are offensive to the majority of the youth of Japan. How, then, are the youth of Nippon mated and entered into wedlock? First of all, if a parent has not already selected his son's wife, a young man who is in a position to marry calls on some married friend and asks him to seek him a wife. The friend, acting as a go-between, canvasses among the young ladies of his acquaintance and inquires of his friends. Finally, he decides upon a certain one and visits her parents to make the proposal. If they approve, a party is arranged at the home of some common friend where the young couple have a chance to meet, perhaps for the first time. Should the young lady positively object to the young man, she is seldom forced to marry him; but no more cordial feeling than simple toleration is expected after marriage. If no reason can be found why the young couple should not be married, presents are exchanged, the betrothal entered into, and the wedding arrangements made. Should it be impossible to find a satisfactory wife otherwise, the soliciting party will advertise in the paper or take his case to a professional matrimonial agency who in turn will advertise for him. By these methods it is always possible to make matches. It is not uncommon for the maiden, desiring to enter matrimony, to advertise for a husband. These ads are amusing to the foreigners. The following was clipped from a current newspaper: "Wanted—a wife up to the age of 26. By a real gentleman, aged 30, position with a certain firm, bearer of the 8th order of merit, household treasures worth $80,000." All arrangements for the wedding are made by the go-betweens or seconds, who are in a measure responsible for the future felicity of the couple. The next thing is to find a lucky day. Frequently, a fortune teller is consulted. Certain days and certain years, January 16, and the whole month of July are known to be unlucky. The middle of November is considered to be the most lucky time. The ninth year of the Simico-Japanese zodiac is a very unlucky year. It happened to be 1920, and the records show few marriages were arranged for then. The reason for the superstitious distrust of that year is found in the two-fold meaning of the zodiacal name. The year is the monkey year, pronounced in Japanese, saru-no-toshi. Now, besides meaning "monkey," saru means to leave or to part, and the popular fear is that couples united during this year are apt to separate soon. THE STATUS OF WOMEN IN JAPAN 521 Practically the only legal requirement for marriage is registration. The marriage ceremony is quite simple, consisting of the alternating drinking of sake (Japanese wine), "three times three" or nine times, by the bride and the groom. The parents of the bride have to supply the bride with a very costly dowry, and the detail and formality of taking this to the house of the groom is characteristic of the ceremonious occasion. Would that it could be said that all couples "live happily ever after." Perhaps many of them do. For they are trained for their parts, the man to be the head of the household and the wife to look after her lord's interests. Harsh and abrupt he appears, and the Occidental is frequently shocked while visiting a typical Japanese home. He wonders that the wife would put up with such a commandeering, bossing type. But seemingly, this is just what she has been trained to expect and look for. She seems to understand that her position is that of chief servant in the household, and that she must do all she can to please the father of her children. There is one head, not two. Divorces are not uncommon. But certainly they are not so common as one would expect. Yet the Japanese maiden has been trained from childhood to live contentedly in the service of her lord. She is seldom misused. "Wife-beating" is rarely heard of. Every girl realizes that her mission in life falls under the "three obediences—obedience, while yet unmarried, to a father; obedience, when married, to a husband, and that husband's parents; and obedience, when widowed, to a son." Formerly, the custom of blacking the teeth by married women prevailed in Japan. Occasionally, at the present time, one sees a woman with black teeth proclaiming the fact that she is married. Although this custom has been practically abandoned, there is still certain fashions peculiar to married life. Noticeable among these is that of head dress. The Shimada coiffure is worn by girls; the Marumage, by women. There is another, known as the Icho-gaeshi, which is worn by old ladies. There are a great many other styles with appropriate names, but the shades of difference are rather confusing. Of course, the dressing of the Japanese lady's hair, is no small task. The Japanese coiffure is a real edifice, and when once completed will last for weeks, if necessary. The dressing of the hair is done by accomplished experts in beauty parlors, and quite a liberal sum is now demanded for the work. In order to preserve the fine lines and_ straight, glossy, jet-black surface; in other words, not to destroy the edifice, the Japanese woman is quite content to sleep on her back at nights with her head hanging over the edge of a hard block for a pillow. In this fashion she keeps her hair from coming in contact with anything that will snarl or ruffle it in any way. 522 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In concluding this article, it might be well to state that ordinarily a woman's religion in Japan, is that of her husband's family. Of course, liberality is beginning to assert itself, and there are many instances of the husband being a Buddhist and his wife a Christian, or vice versa. The results of this condition are not satisfactory by any manner of means. One of the big reasons is that the wife must tend the family kamidana or "godshelf," which is part of the home. There it is that the tablets bearing the posthumous names of the deceased ancestors are placed, and before which must be placed fresh flowers and food every morning. A short prayer is also a part of the daily routine before the small shrine. Is there any wonder then that the lady says, "my lord's religion"? Incidentally, there is one Japanese lady who is having a new experience in doing work for dead ancestors. And that is not before a Buddhist temple or a Shinto shrine, but before the altar of God in a Latter-day Saint temple. Sister Tsune Nachie, through the assistance of the Church and friends, has been enabled to make the voyage to Hawaii, where she is at present doing her temple work. She holds the distinction of being the first Japanese to enter a Latter-day Saint temple to participate in the sacred rites therein. Sister Nichie is an elderly lady, and a widow. For years she took care of the mission headquarters in Tokyo. The Other Side By Mrs. Alice Morrill Let me not pass by on the Other Side When my neighbor lies wounded and bare; Let me take the way to the fainting one Who is needing my help and care. Though the Other Side be a flower-strewn path, Where the pleasures of life abound, Let me take the way where my neighbor lies, Stripped and bleeding, upon the ground. Though the Other Way would bear me swift On the wings of my heart's desire; Make Thou my choice, my brother's need, Though begrimed with dust and mire. Then at the end, the Master's trust, The reward of my toil shall be: "Who hath done it, in faith, to one of these, Hath done it, in love, to Me." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto-—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS: -: -: President MRS, JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON -:: - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN: -: General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs, Rosannakh C, Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon' Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mr. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder ~ Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = -:: Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor: Alice Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XII OCTOBER, 1925 No. 10 Women of the East and the Veil One of the interesting institutions of Syria, is the American College at Beirut. February last, when we visited it, we found the people on the campus in a ferment of excitement because a Mohammedan woman had won first place in the season's oratorical contest. It usually stirs women to have a woman win first place in a contest, when in competition with men, but when that woman proves to be a Mohammedan woman, and her theme no other than the dropping of the veil, under the caption, "Show them the light," there is no element lacking to arouse interest and enthusiasm. The contest in question was held on February 21, 1925, in what is known as West Hall, at the Armenian College, in this Syrian city. The winner of the contest, Ihsan Ihmad, is a married woman. She was one of seven contestants, the other contestants were gentlemen. Members of the faculty in speaking of the matter said that the winning of the contest, by a Mohammedan woman, on that theme, was an epoch-making event, particularly as two of the three judges selected are of the faith of Islam. The prize awarded was $35 which Madam Ihmad promptly turned over to the treasurer of the Alumni Association of the college with $35 added. That the wearing of the veil by the women of the East is a species of bondage, none can doubt who have seen it in practice. The revolution that made of Turkey a republic also encouraged the Turkish woman to drop her veil. She was responded to this 524 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE encouragement in a gratifying manner. The Arabic woman is very much slower to act in this direction, and as yet she has not received the moral support that the Turkish woman has received. When we visited the seaport town of Jaffa, in Palestine, a woman stood near a tree, with her veil pulled aside, that she might have a better look at us. One day while stopping in the "street Straight," in Damascus, our attention was called from what we were doing, by a hand thrust against our back, we turned suddenly only to find a woman who drew aside her veil quickly, and held it for an instant, as if she would say, "I, too, should like to be as free and unencumbered, in such matters, as the women of the West are." We were told at the College that the young men of the East would very much like to see their mothers. And sisters drop the veil, and that, at exclusive parties, the Eastern maiden frequently appears, when escorted by her brother, without her veil. To be sure, we met persons who said that the Eastern woman must, of necessity, use a great deal of judgment in the matter of dropping the veil, for there are some types of Eastern men who might interpret such an action as an invitation to them to become unduly familiar. However, all persons agreed that time and usage will obviate that difficulty. Apart from looks in the matter the veil must be both uncomfortable and unsanitary. Here in these hot countries the cool winds of heaven are not allowed to touch the face of the woman; she is denied the invigoration of first hand contact with sun and air. Those of us who wore masks during the influenza epidemic may be able to sympathize in a measure. Then, too, looks are important. It is a difficult matter for one unacquainted with the custom to realize how unbecoming this sort of dress is, and how completely it obscures all personal charm and beauty. At best when the woman wears a black crepe silk gown, with the head piece a sort of hood to match, and a veil of the same material, as we saw some of the wealthiest women in Damascus wearing, even then it is in no way attractive, yet what we saw frequently was a woman wearing something like a white sheet, folded at the top, in some such fashion as a pillowcase might be folded to form a hood, the remaining part of the sheet forming a mantle, while across her face was a piece of black cloth that served as a veil. This custom assuredly works to make the woman, designed by the creator to be beautiful, little less than hideous.; While in Egypt we heard of women who are pleading for a broader and freer life for the women, and a similar story greeted our ears in Constantinople: We wish them success in their struggle, and we trust that the day is not far distant when the Eastern woman will not feel the embarrassment she feels today when visiting western lands; but that she will stand face to face with her sister from the west with no veil intercepting. EDITORIAL 525 American Literature Coming to its Own Years of struggle, with many rebuffs from the people across the great ocean, is the story behind the effort for the recognition of American literature abroad. At present that recognition so eagerly sought and so persistently withheld for many years is in no small measure realized. During the month of May a goodly number of celebrations in honor of Washington Irving were held throughout Spain. During the month of April the following comments appeared in the Paris edition of the New York Herald: "It is quite true that the memory of Irving, of Fenimore Cooper and of Poe, seems to be more alive in Europe than in our own country. In almost all French bookshops one sees translations of their works." Moreover, these writers were not really scorned by Europe in their own day, for both Scott and Campbell borrowed lines from the American writer Freneau, we are told on good authority. "Tt is a pretty general opinion, at present, that contemporary criticism, of early American writers, including such men as James Kirke Paulding and Nathaniel Parker Willis was far from justified," says a writer of recent date. A new edition of pioneer American writers would perhaps attract a good deal of attention at home, and it would surely be far better appreciated than ever before at home. Many of the members of the Relief Society became acquainted with these writers when they were pupils in the public schools. The members of the Relief Society have followed a course in American Literature just at the time when Americans at home are more fully conscious of its worth, than ever before, and when Europe is willing to admit that America, too, had writers of worth when Scott and Byron wrote. Condolence The loving sympathy of the entire Relief Society organization goes out to Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, of the General Board, on the death of her husband, Henry C. Lund, who passed away, Saturday September 6, 1925. The extent of the sympathy extended to her and the high esteem in which she and her husband are held, was testified by the large number that attended the funeral services, the wealth of floral tributes on that occasion, and the beautiful words of praise and commendation of his life, spoken by those who bore testimony of his worth. Henry C. Lund was the son of the late President Anthon H. Lund. He was a member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A. THE DAY By Grace Ingles Frost. Afar is flung the sable robe of night; The gleaming, golden garment of the morn Trails o'er the earth its witchery of light, And Day from purple mystery is born. The Day whose chariot wheels are twined with flow'rs Close folded o'er a meed of thorny scars; The Day that holds the mystic chain of hours, For man's divine ascension to the stars. The Day! The Day! Whose panting steeds apace, With flowing mane and scintillating eye, Have joined with eager swiftness in the race, That speeds with mad'ning haste the moments by. The Day whose ebbing life tide stains the west, At length in closing conflict with the sun; The Day that finds in recompense of rest, The guerdon of the victory lost and won. EVENTIDE The silence of eventide drifts slowly down, A calm benediction from shadowy hills, Soothing e'en into the land of the sun, Agleam in the far away west. Now here and now there shines a star from the blue Of the stillness that reigns in the heavenly deep, Where night, like a nesting bird covers the earth With peace and the quiet of sleep. NIGHT She does not come as comes the day, In chariot of gold, But like an angel of mercy, With the mantle of peace to fold Close, close around toil-worn nature, While forth from her hand there gleams The sheen of a silent shuttle That weaveth the web of dreams Phyllis Morton's Birthday Gift By Myrtle M. Dean Beth Mason moved hurriedly about her little sitting room, dusting and gathering up scattered toys the children had tired playing with. Though she could not always keep things done up to the minute in her home, yet she always tried to get*things in order before Bob came home from work. All morning she had ironed and patched, and her cheeks were flushed with fatigue. As she finished her task, she hesitated a moment before the front window to glance at the busy crowd going to and fro on the street, before her home. Some there were who moved with joyous step, with light hearts and happy, smiling faces; others, minds on business set, walked briskly to their labors; yet those there were who walked with faltering, weary tread, as if not knowing or caring where they went; and as she watched the never-ceasing throng, she thought, "I neither come nor go, but live my life within my little home, working, caring for the man I love and our four children." A shining, blue car drove into the yard of the home across the street from her own, and a trim little figure alighted and walked briskly up to the door. «~ As Mrs. Mason watched the care-free step and trimly clad figure, a little of envy and resentment crept into her heart, and as the door closed on the dainty neighbor, Beth sank wearily onto a chair and gave vent to her bitter thoughts. Who could better judge what Phyllis Morton's ideals and aims in life should be, than Beth Mason? Hadn't they been children in the same little town together? Then, when they grew up, they were married the same month in the same eventful summer; afterward living just across the street from each other for ten long years. Beth also knew Phyllis Morton's mother had borne ten children, ever caring for them and teaching them the principles of right. Now Phyllis lived her life, just chasing bubbles; childless, never a care or worry, coming and going at her own sweet will; attending clubs, theaters and balls; shopping at the best stores in town, spending Jack Morton's money, that he so freely lavished upon her. While Beth washed, ironed, patched and sewed, did the numerous things a mother must do, when she has four lively, mischievous, healthy youngsters, scarcely two years apart. She had stayed at home, week in and week out, caring for her children. Though the family had been able to dress respectably, and  THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE she had tried ever so hard, to always keep herself neat and becoming about her home, still she knew, one would take her to be at least five years older than Phyllis Morton, although they were the same age. How shocking to even imagine Phyllis, in gingham aprons, working over heated wash tubs, and preparing her own meals, patching socks for her husband, and tying up little hurt fingers, or tucking children in bed. Beth: got up, looking about guiltily, feeling that were any one present he might read her thoughts. It was not without a twinge of conscience that the usual placid Beth, always gently accepting her cares and responsibilities, now gave vent to this harsh criticism of her little neighbor. "Of course, we are not always capable of judging, but any one can plainly see that Phyllis Morton is in perfect health, and they have plenty. To support a family." Beth busied herself patching aprons for Ruth, and stockings for little chubby Bobby, when the shrill cries from the nursery told her that six months' old baby Betty had finished her afternoon nap, and was claiming her share of attention. Baby was placed on the rug, to play with her rattle, and watch while the mending went on. Not many minutes had passed until baby's soft goos and dimpled smiles, sent the bitter resentment from mother's heart. The subject soon entirely slipped from her mind, until a half hour later, she saw Phyllis Morton coming up the walk to the house. As the door bell rang, Beth tried to hide her confusion, for her previous thoughts rushed in upon her, and her cheeks were slightly flushed, though she spoke with the usual cordiality as she greeted her visitor. "Busy? What are you doing, patching?" Phyllis asked on entering the room, "and there's baby Betty, hello, Fatty,' she called sweetly to the baby, and Betty began throwing her hands and wiggling delightedly, giving Phyllis one of her widest baby smiles. Phyllis took her up giving her a hard squeeze. "Say, she's the dearest little thing, Beth, such big blue eyes like yours, and her daddy's big, broad smile, hasn't she?" Beth was accustomed to having Phyllis run in occasionally, and fuss over the children. Many times she took Bobby or Hal, or all of them, over to her home and gave them cookies or candy, or even took them in her car, for a ride, but Beth had seen so many childless women fuss over other people's children for show, she thought; just so they didn't have the care of them! "Tt's my birthday, today, Beth, and I was lonesome for some old friend. Jack is gone all day, you know, and I am so far away from mother and all my family! I do get so lonely, sometimes," PHILLIS MORTON'S BIRTHDAY GIFT 529 Phyllis began yearningly. "You are lucky, having your mother so near you, Beth." - "Yes, I don't know how I should get along without mother. She is always so willing to help with the children, and when they are sick she is such a comfort. I'm glad you came, Phyllis," Beth said, her heart softening, as she watched Phyllis tenderly pat Betty's chubby hand. "It's Boby's birthday, too, he is four today." "Oh, is it? I wish I had known, I would have brought him a little gift. Where are the children?" "They are playing in the back yard, in their swing. Robert made them a swing this morning before he went to work," Beth said, as she looked from the side window and saw the happy youngsters playing, and heard little Bobby calling, "It's my turn now 'cause it's my birthday, you know." Jack gave me a gift this morning, that would be ever so nice for Bobby," Phyllis said, with a little nervous laugh. Beth wondered that Jack would give Phyllis anything that would be nice for a child. She had heard of the usual charming presents she received from her husband. Last year it had been the fine blue car, and at Christmas her beautiful furs and dainty pearl necklace, then there was the cut glass and gold mesh bag, and radio, all, Beth knew, were gifts from Jack to his wife. It was with a little feeling of envy she compared these, with the little simple gifts Robert had given her at such times, but of course it was all he could afford with a family to provide for, which he tried to do well, and many times there was no gift at all, and Robert would say, "I'm sorry I couldn't get you some little thing this time, Beth, but I love my girl as much as if I could give her the greatest gift that money can buy, and that counts most, doesn't it, dear?" he would ask, as he gave her a big birthday kiss. And Beth was happy and satisfied. "Jack always gives you something nice," Beth said, not wishing to seem inquisitive, but wanting to appear interested in Phyllis' affairs. "Yes, ever so many lovely things. Even more than he can afford. His every thought and effort seems to be to keep me happy and satisfied, by the things money can buy and do. I am at liberty to go and come as I please. I have friends in what you would call the best society, yet, somehow, it does not satisfy. This morning, Jack gave me such a beautiful dress, just a dream of a thing. No other man has such good taste, in buying things for a woman, I think, sometimes; and another present he gave me, too," she said hesitatingly, as a little sob of a laugh came from her lips, "a little, white, fluffy ball of a dog; and for me, Beth—a lovely gift for a child, little Bobby would love it, but for
530 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
me—to love—to fondle. Oh, Beth," she continued brokenly, "to think of loving a thing like that, when I might love a beautiful baby like this, if only Jack were willing; but I can't make him understand." Tears fell on little Betty's curls, and her big, blue eyes looked wonderingly at Phyllis. "Dear Phyllis, and I had thought you didn't care," Beth confessed sympathetically, "forgive me, dearie, can you?" "Never mind they all think that, why shouldn't they? We all misjudge one another; it is just as well that I am blamed, I don't want them to blame Jack. He wishes to be kind, and I could not ask that he love me more. He just cannot understand. He was an only child, brought up without companionship, save what money could bestow; he doesn't hate children, as some men do, but he hasn't the natural longings to be a father that a man should have, and thinks it foolish, for me, to want to be tied down with such responsibilities. "The first few years, after we were married he could not think of letting his little girl be tied down," he said, "We must first have a trip to California, then to some other place, and then —perhaps, if I would be so foolish, but still it is the same. Always, he has spent his every spare cent lavishing some luxury upon me; he wants to please me so, and sometimes he appears so hurt and disappointed, that I cannot be content, with just his love and what he gives me, but my mother was a mother of ten children, which she considered, as precious gifts from heaven; this she taught me; besides, my natural woman's instinct—how could I be satisfied? And then, this morning, that little dog—for me— with my arms just aching for a baby, I just couldn't say, 'Oh, isn't it just dear, I'll love it so,' as I have heard so many women say, and I think they lied. I think I didn't say much of anything, and tried not to show that I wanted to kick the poor little thing out into the street. I've always felt that way when I saw women fondling little dogs. I could have petted it, had it been for a little boy to play with, like Bobby. It made me feel so, I couldn't say much about the lovely dress; he brought them in together, and he went away to work, feeling hurt, I know. Forgive me, Beth, for bothering you with this, but it seemed I must tell some one, some one who could understand." "I am so glad you came, and that you told me. I have misjudged you so, thinking you so care-free, with nothing more you desired to make you happy. I have even complained that God has been so kind to me, but I hope I will never complain again, even though it seems a little hard, the responsibilities a family brings. I should be the happiest woman in the world, with my four jewels and a husband who loves me and them."
PHYLLIS MORTON'S BIRTHDAY GIFT 531
Jack Morton walked briskly toward his home. He had left the office a little early, that he might take Phyllis out for a drive into the country, as it was her birthday; and she had complained that it was lonesome, driving alone out away from the city, but he knew she loved the trips, out away from the crowded city streets, into the shady lanes, and through sandy stretches, enjoying the sights of nature, unmolested by the hand of man. He must go with her oftener. As he remembered her this morning, it seemed that she was a trifle pale. His home was first on the corner of the block, and as he turned the corner he saw a little boy, a mere baby, crossing the street, coming toward his home. The child seemed to have his eyes set on something, on this side of the street, and came joyously seeking it, heeding not the harm that might come to him on the busy street. A big car came down the street toward him. Another came up the street and turned up the side avenue. The man in the big car turned his attention to the car that passed, not noticing the mite of a child until it was too late to stop in time, for the child was not more than ten feet away. As he threw on the brakes, his heart sank, and a sickening fear came over him. Just as he threw on the brake, a voice shouted stop! And a man sprang, with the dexterity of an athlete, just in time, yes, thank heaven! Just in time to save the little child unhurt. "A pretty close call," Jack said, trembling with excitement, as he stepped back to the walk with the frightened child clinging to him. "Yes it was a bad scare. Not a pleasant thing to run into a little fellow like that. He's a fine little chap. I am much obliged to you Mr.," the man in the car said gratefully. "Some fine leap you made, just in the nick of time, too, I tell you. Sorry I scared you so, sonny. It scared me, too. You must stay with your mother, laddie, then you won't get hurt." "Yes, sonny, where's your mother? What are you doing out here? Where do you live?" Jack asked the child. "She's over there in the house; I live just over there. I want to see that dog. I want to play with doggie. I was over by our gate, and heard him barking. He wants me to play with him." "What dog? You must go back to mother, she will think you are lost. I'll take you back across the street, so any more cars won't hurt you." And as he turned toward the child's home, little Bobby cried desperately, "I want to see the doggie, pretty, little, white doggie." Jack Morton thought of the little dog he had given Phyllis that morning, and as he looked toward the house, he saw the little, white, fluffy thing, chained securely to a shade tree, jumping up and down, and whining pitifully.
532 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Pretty doggie, I want to play with him,' Bobby continued as he patted Jack's cheek coaxingly, with his fat chubby hand. Jack could not resist the childish entreaties, and carried him into the yard and untied the dog, Bobby clapping his hands in delight, as the dog jumped upon him and began to play. As Jack watched the happy child he thought of a little dog his father had brought home to him when he was a little fellow, how it had delighted him. "Of course, little dogs are for children, not for women like Phyllis." "Do you like the little dog, sonny?" Jack asked kindly. "Yes, I like it. Is this your little boy's dog, where is your little boy? I want to play with him, too." "Where is my boy? Why—why, I have no little boy." "Oh, do little girls like dogs? Where's she?" "I haven't a little girl, either." "No little boy or girl? Then who plays with the little dog?" "He's my—why he's my little dog," Jack said, abashed. Why should he feel so foolish, to confess that it was his, hadn't he bought it for his wife's birthday gift? "Come, Bobby; is that your name? I'll tell my wife where I am going, then I must take you home, or they will worry about you." Jack went from room to room, looking all about the house for Phyllis. As he moved about, even his foot-falls seemed to echo and resound through the house, all was so silent. Never before had it seemed so still, although many times he had found Phyllis away. Thinking his wife to be out at some club, or perhaps shopping, he felt disappointed that he could not spend the afternoon with her. Then, remembering the child, he hurriedly left the house. For a moment he stood on the step, watching the happy child and the dog at play. What a beautiful picture! Bobby's golden hair, shining in the sun, and large blue eyes, sparkling with happiness, as the dog, rejoicing at his freedom, bounded and danced about, with little sharp barks of delight. Bobby's two ruddy lips parted in exclamations of childish glee, then ripples of laughter, brought two merry dimples, dancing like whirlpools on round, rosy cheeks. Jack gazed fascinated at the sight, and though he knew he should go, yet he stood and watched, as he did so, he thought how near a father's dreams, and hopes and plans, for this lovely little son, had come to being ended, had he not saved him. As he thought of dreams and plans of his neighbor, he stopped to ponder on his own, and he realized how narrow and selfish his had been. Plans for just two; plans for all that makes for easy living, ever shirking the hard or that which brought responsibility and care. Dreams and hopes, had he any? As his mind turned to the future, he saw Phyllis and himself, old and lonely, no one to love them; no one to care. Then perhaps, we will be weary of
PHYLLIS MORTON'S BIRTHDAY GIFT 533
our shallow, aimless life; possibly all our frail bubbles shall have burst, and our hearts may grow hungry for someone to cheer us, but the world is too busy to care. Jack was stirred from his reverie, by hearing voices calling Bobby from the opposite side of the street. He hastily went to the child; lifting him to one arm and the dog to the other he hurried toward the little boy's home. The little fat arm of the child went around Jack's shoulder trustingly, and strange little thrills went through him, that he had never felt before. He realized a little then of what he had been missing.
* 
o 
Hal and Ruth came in from the yard, where the children had been playing. Bobby not being with them, Mrs. Mason asked, "where's Bobby, children?" and at the answer, "We thought he came in the house," Beth and Phyllis started to find him. As Phyllis reached the front porch with baby Betty in her arms, she saw Jack coming up the walk with Bobby. The sight of Jack with a child, with its arms about his neck, was a lovely sight to Phyllis. "Where did you find him? Where has he been?' The two women asked in chorus, as Beth at that moment came around the house. "He came over to play with the doggie, didn't you, Bobby?" Jack said smiling at the child. "Oh! Across the street and I didn't even miss you. Bobby, darling, it is a wonder you're alive." Bobby forgetting everything but the fluffy dog, forgot to tell of the big car that almost ran over him, and Jack thinking it just as well that Beth did not know, never mentioned the narrow escape her little son had had. "But how did you happen to be home? I thought you were at the office,' Phyllis said. "I came home early, as it is your birthday. I thought you might like to take a ride into the country." "I shall enjoy it ever so much," Phyllis answered sweetly. Jack smiled, as he saw what a lovely picture she made, with the beautiful babe in her arms. "Let's give the dog to Bobby, Jack, it is his birthday, too. He seems to love it so." "Yes, a good idea. I think perhaps Bobby will like it even better than you do, eh, Phyllis?" Jack asked with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes. Phyllis smiled back at him, then, as she and Jack left and walked back to their home, there was more of comradeship, more of mutual feelings, than there had ever been in those ten years they had been married.
534 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Just one year had passed, since little Bobby Mason had stirred Jack Morton's soul, and awoke him to a new life. Today he did not go out searching for something to give his wife, to make her happy and satisfied with life. Phyllis lay pale, but smiling into Jack's dark eyes, as he sat by her bed and held her little white hand. In a dainty bassinette, beside them, lay their little son. Proudly Jack gazed at the tiny bundle, then looking at the lovely little woman beside him, he held her hand more closely. "How could I have been so blind? Dear one, how can you forgive me? We might have had this happiness ten years ago, but I have tried to crush the natural longings of your woman's soul, and fill your life with the paltry pleasures, and showy gifts of man. Phyllis, I have cheated you." Tears of joy glistened in the little mother's eyes, as she spoke tenderly, "Don't Jack, now I have waited and longed for it so long, I perhaps shall love it more, and now we have the gift; this Precious birthday gift from God; a human soul, to love and train and nurture. May we be worthy of the gift."
AN APPROPRIATE GIFT for CHRISTMAS, MOTHER'S DAY, BIRTHDAY or any occasion Is a Year's Subscription to THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Send the names and addresses of those to whom you wish the Magazine sent as a gift, and the management will send cards bearing the following description:
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 28 BISHOP'S BUILDING SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Announces with pleasure that Mrs. John Jones has subscribed for the Magazine for the coming year as a gift to Mrs. June White
A really valuable gift for $1.00.
Diet for the Woman of Forty Plus
Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education
When middle life approaches, "the fires within slacken," and the usual activity is apt to be decreased. As a result the energy requirement from both the internal processes as well as that resulting from exercises is somewhat diminished. Consequently, the food intake should be decreased proportionately so as not to cause extra strain on the excretory system. Where the weight is noticeably increased at this time, the heart muscles are apt to be overworked and other physical discomforts result. Although some small gain in weight need not cause undue alarm, much extra fatty tissue is one of the danger signs of middle life. Life insurance companies have found that the best risks for them are persons whose body weight after forty does not much exceed the normal weight of the person at twenty-five. Intelligent effort to approach or maintain this normal weight is one of the best kinds of health insurance for the person of forty plus. Much of the ill health of middle and later life is due to wrong kind of diet. The offenders can usually be grouped into two classes. Those who eat too much and those who eat too little. Volumes can be written on the necessity of keeping only a safe. Margin of over weight if any. Life insurance companies have a slogan that the person overweight is a much poorer risk than the normally thin one. They claim that every additional inch to the waist line is bad business for them. Increased profits in life insurance companies result when the waist line remains normal. One well known authority chuckles when he comments on his comparison of over-weight people with the animals in a fat stock show. Over-weight means that more has been eaten than was needed for activity and general metabolic processes, If the person is more than 10% over-weight, attention should be given the diet so that the individual will not become one of the group suffering from chronic obesity. The amount of food eaten at different meals is largely habit. Probably when the person was more active than at present two pieces of toast for breakfast were necessary in addition to cereals, etc. Think about it, that extra carbohydrate may now add to increasing weight! Perhaps this overweight person is especially fond of desserts and eats one large or two small servings, half of which would be ample. Probably, too, his body-needs have been met before the dessert was served. Too little attention is given to the fact that rich desserts are an easy way to pile up fatty tissue, although if a fattening diet is desired desserts may become a valuable part of
536 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the menu. If the person is overweight he should beware of pies, puddings, etc., that carry 300 to 400 calories of excess fuel in an average serving. Possibly all of the members of the family at the present time are less active than they were. If so, why continue to serve generously of rich gravies, sauces and cream salad dressings. Why not consider that constant over-eating results in headaches, constipation and irritability? The person who has reached 60 years of age should be careful not to over-eat because the heart does not beat so rapidly and respiration becomes slower. The digestive organs, heart, liver, and kidneys cannot handle the volume of food which was required during the period of greatest physical activity. Any great excess over and above what is needed is a source of danger to the elderly person. Van Noorden claims that the food requirements of individuals from 60 to 70 years of age should be reduced 10%, for people from 70 to 80 years of age should be reduced 20%, for people from 80 to 90 years of age should be reduced 30%. It is possible you haven't had the habit in your home of eating simple salads made of lettuce, endive, cress, cabbage or various combinations of vegetables on several lettuce leaves served with a simple dressing. Simple fruit salads are also valuable means of serving raw foods. Salads are also valuable for bulk which gives a feeling of well being when cutting down the caloric intake. This bulk is due to the water and cellulose which are necessary for a healthy digestive tract, soft vegetable cellulose such as this increases the peristaltic movement of the intestines which helps to prevent constipation. While cellulose is not digestible it is attacked by fermentative bacteria which produces gases and thus hastens the movements of the body wastes through the intestines. Many authorities on diet for constipation prefer to use the soft vegetable fibers such as vegetables contain to the harsher cellulose of bran in whole wheat and other cereal mixtures. The claim is made that the softer cellulose ferments more readily than the harsher fibre and that the gas produced hastens the movement in the intestines. The specialists further argue that the harsher cellulose is apt to irritate the intestinal tract. The greatest value of the salad vegetables, however, is due to their richness in vitamine and ash. Dr. Benjamin Harrow says, "Vitamines are substances as yet ill defined whose presence in food is essential to our well being. Their absence makes life impossible. When the diet is limited to muscle meats, starches, sugars, and fats the vitamine content of food is low. Necessarily, as a result, appetite fails, too little food is eaten, and the person gradually becomes below par physically. In order to safeguard the intestinal tract, easily digestible foods are much to be preferred to those more difficult to digest. Danger results when too many acid-forming foods are consumed. Compared with most vegetables and fruits, flesh foods are high in
DIET FOR WOMEN OF FORTY PLUS 537
acid forming substances. Because of this danger of overworking kidneys and also because the protein requirement for body tissues is considerably less than formerly, the meat consumption after forty plus should be somewhat decreased. Further safeguarding from an excess of acid foods may result from using fruits and vegetables and milk in the diet. It is safe to say that some of our best dietary customs are based upon a safe proportion between acid and base forming foods. The following tables show foods high in acid and base forming elements.
Foods in Which Acid-Forming Elements Predominate Estimated Excess Acid-Forming Elements Equivalent to Cubic Centimeters Normal Acid Per 100 Calories Beef, free from visible fat.........................................10 Eggs................................................................9 Round Steak.........................................................6.7 Oatmeal.............................................................3.2 Wheat Flour.........................................................2.7 Wheat, Entire Grain.................................................2.6 Rice................................................................2.4 Bacon...............................................................1 Corn, Entire Grain (High Protein)..................................1
Foods in Which Base-Forming Elements Predominate Estimated Excess Base-Forming Elements Equivalent to Cubic Centimeters Normal Alkali Per 100 Calories Prunes..............................................................40 Cabbage.........................................................10-13.6 Potatoes........................................................9-12 Raisins.........................................................7-9 Milk............................................................6-12 Apples..............................................................5 Beans...........................................................2.9-6.8 Peas................................................................1.9 Corn, Entire Grain (Low Protein)...................................8
The fruits likewise show a predominance of base-forming elements over acid-forming elements and for this reason may be used to balance the diet. An additional argument for the use of milk in the diet of those who are forty plus are: It is rich in vitamine A and B. Raw milk also has some vitamine C. It is one of our chief sources of calcium for maintaining body tissues and fluid. It is a reasonably bulky food which should decrease the intake of too much concentrated food. It furnishes an easily digested protein which is easy on the kidneys. At present prices it is one of the most economical foods we have. Very few people are sensitized against milk. Statistics show only one person in 25,000 find milk a food poison.
538 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
There is usually good reasons why Mrs. Overweight tips the scales at a higher figure than she should. Usually she enjoys good things to eat and because of the variety of food afforded at her table she eats generously of meats, fats, and starches, forgetting the health value of fresh fruits and green vegetables. Very often, too, her activity is decreased so that her general metabolic processes are considerably slowed down. The food eaten in excess of her needs is constantly stored thus increasing the strain on the heart, and excretory organs. Very often Mrs. Overweight has a very complacent view toward life in general. She consoles herself because "her family are fat,—that, however, is not sufficient proof that health and longevity are assured for all the members of her family tree. If no warning is heeded she may suffer from various ills which follow obesity. It is safe to say that the normal person should attempt to control his or her own weight. "Excess fat is not easy to control. It is much easier to reduce the fat that has recently been put on rather than that which has been stored in the body for some years. One lecturer in a medical college advises young doctors not to take obesity cases who have been overweight for years and who have a family tendency to be stout. Treatment in a sanitarium is often much more satisfactory in reducing avoirdupois than the usual more or less erratic dieting that the person in the home attempts to carry on. Those interested in the Home Treatment of Obesity might be interested in the article on this in the September Hygiea Magazine. The person determined to keep young and be well, will conscientiously check on weight in relation to height. Normal weight is usually that weight at which one feels best. The following table of height and weight for women of different ages is worthy of careful consideration. Symonds' table of height and weight for women at different ages: (Based on 58,855 Accepted Applicants for Life Insurance.)
[THIS IS TABLE: Height and weight table with age ranges 15-19, 20-25, 25-29, 30-34, 35-39, 40-44, 45-49, 50-54, 55-59, 60-64 for heights from 4 ft. 11 in. to 5 ft. 10 in., showing weight ranges]
4 ft. 11 in.....|111|113|115|117|119|122|125|128|128|126 5 ft. 0 in.....|113|114|117|119|122|125|128|130|131|129 5 ft. 1 in.....|115|116|118|121|124|128|131|133|134|132 5 ft. 2 in.....|117|118|120|123|127|132|134|137|137|136 5 ft. 3 in.....|120|122|124|127|131|135|138|141|141|140 5 ft. 4 in.....|123|125|127|130|134|138|142|145|145|144 5 ft. 5 in.....|125|128|131|135|139|143|147|149|149|148 5 ft. 6 in.....|128|132|135|137|143|146|151|153|153|152 5 ft. 7 in.....|132|135|139|143|147|150|154|157|156|155 5 ft. 8 in.....|136|140|143|147|151|155|158|161|161|160 5 ft. 9 in.....|140|144|147|151|155|159|163|166|166|165 5 ft. 10 in.....|144|147|151|155|159|163|167|170|170|169
DIET FOR WOMEN OF FORTY PLUS 539
In most cases overweight is not pathological but the result of over-stocking the body tissues. Almost any one would rebel at carrying around and being responsible for 20-50 lbs. Of tissue in addition to what they should carry. Yet that is exactly what the otherwise normal individual is doing who has been indiscreet and made a practice of eating a little more than her body demands. Some women, however, when they realize how much too heavy they are, proceed to go on extreme obese diet. That is not good practice. Probably the extra tissue has been accumulating for several years, it is hardly fair to the organisms to expect the body to adjust itself to radical changes in the diet in a few weeks or months. Usually when this is done the person soon forgets, breaks training and again gains in weight. A knowledge of bulky and concentrated foods will help the person inclined to be stout to remain reasonably thin. The following general suggestions should help. Avoid foods such as sweets or fats. Do not eat too much bread, fat, meats, fried foods, cream and nuts. Avoid in between meal foods such as ice creams, sundaes, rich chocolate. Do not eat candy, it is one of our most concentrated foods. Not all women of forty plus are over-weight. While according to the life insurance companies the thin ones are better risks, it is not wise to be too thin. It is generally considered that about normal weight for height for 27 years of age is a reasonably safe guide. Too much underweight is not in accordance with good health standards. There may be several reasons for this, one or more of which will probably fit any one special case. Among the most important causes of underweight are, worry, overwork, nervous tension, improper selection of food, poor food habits, lack of interest in personal health, and unpleasant meal times. "Equanimity of mind" according to Dr. McCollum is most important for good nutrition. The individual not at peace with herself and surroundings cannot have a normal appetite and good digestion because the digestive juices cease to function normally. Dr. Mendell of Yale tells the following: "A woman suffering from indigestion went to her doctor's office, by appointment to eat a test meal so as to determine which one of the digestive juices failed to function. When the doctor brought the test meal of a roll and cup of weak tea, the tea was in an unattractive mug and the roll fell on the floor of the doctor's office. After the usual time the stomach contents were pumped out of the stomach and the doctor found, to his surprise, that no stage of digestion had taken place." While this is somewhat extreme, it shows the effect of the emotions upon the flow of digestive juices and gives convincing argument that meal time should be happy. Because of this, unjust criticism of food should be considered extremely poor taste. It is sometimes a great pity that the camping out rule that the first person to find fault with
540 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the food must prepare the meals until someone else is guilty of fault finding, cannot be in vogue within the home. It is safe to say that the worst critic does less food preparation than anyone within the group. Frequently the under weight woman has poor food habits. She does not eat sufficient variety of food either during the meal or the week. This often results when the diet is limited to bread, a little meat, potatoes, few other vegetables, no salads, and little fruit. This diet practically eliminates vitamine B which is necessary to stimulate appetite. This type of person should change her food habits and make additions in her diet of milk, green leaf vegetables, citrus fruits, some uncooked food every day and some fresh fruits. This will safeguard the ash and vitamine requirements. The woman of forty plus should want to be well, happy and vigorous. Probably the biggest single factor is food. The next one is being at peace with oneself and the world, and the other important factor is living under hygienic conditions and living up to the rules of the health game in terms of sufficient exercise and recreation. In these days any intelligent person ought to feel humiliated when she is incapacitated by disease which her own intelligent care might have prevented. Too many women stay indoors far too much, for many homes do not have sufficient sunshine. Many mothers are not convinced that direct sunlight has distinct health giving properties. The habit of filling one's lungs with fresh air is a good one. "For the long breath, the deep breath, The breath of the heart without care, I will give Thanks and Adore Thee God of the open air." Additional argument for the use of fresh fruits and vegetables in the diet lies in the fact that, constipation is apt to be one of the ills of middle life. At this time extra precaution should be taken to keep the intestinal tract in a healthful condition as constipation is one of the predisposing causes of high blood pressure, kidney trouble, and other forms of auto-intoxication. Constipation is an outstanding cause of restlessness and sleeplessness. People with a clean alimentary tract can sleep all night. Dr. McCollum aptly compares annoyance of a full alimentary tract with trying to sleep with a clothespin on one's ear. A full intestinal tract means that gas is evolved, and when gas forms in a loop in the intestine the blood cannot pass through. This results in pain, discomfort, and frequently nausea. Above all things, the woman of forty plus should have a wholesome mental attitude. The old saying that a woman is not older than she looks might be changed to read that she is not older physically than she is in her mental attitude toward life. People
DIET FOR WOMEN OF FORTY PLUS 541
who have worked hard all of their lives often find they have few resources for leisure time, and thus get into habits of introspection and a morbid attitude toward health, they soon find they enjoy hearing of other people's ills without thought that their health morale is lowered as a result of this frequent depressing information. Decreased exercise for so much inactivity consequently increases tendency to indigestion. Frequently gas in the stomach from indigestion causes people to believe that their heart is very apt to stop entirely. The majority of people of middle age need to really believe that a good way to die is to die suddenly and thus quit worrying over ills that may be all but imaginary.
Of Interest to Women
Conducted by Lalene H. Hart
Questions:
What makes a scum on the top of cocoa or chocolate when made into a drink?
The scum that rises on cocoa or chocolate when allowed to stand very long is the albumen in the milk, which has been coagulated by the heat. Some recipes for preparing cocoa will tell you to "mill" it which means to beat thoroughly with a dover egg beater. This process breaks up the albumen into fine particles and retains it for nourishment. Cocoa and chocolate are practically the same, except chocolate contains a much larger amount of fat. Both contain fat, starch and protein and when made from milk makes a nourishing food. Chocolate cannot be cooked as long as cocoa because the fat separates and rises to the top. Both also contain caffien, the same stimulating substance that is found in tea and coffee, except in smaller amounts. Cocoa is easier of digestion because of its percentage of fat. If cocoa is made with milk, and smaller proportion of cocoa used, children can be allowed to drink it in moderation without any harm.
Will you offer some suggestions for the school lunch baskets?
If space permitted many suggestions might be given as to containers and packing of the lunch, etc., besides the food. Itself, but perhaps you want more information on the latter than the other items. Sandwiches usually form the basis of the lunch. There are many kinds and varieties. Bread just old enough to cut easily without breaking or crushing is best for sandwiches. It may be white, whole wheat, rye or salt raising made with or without raisins, nuts or prunes. When the fruit or nut breads are used, only butter or lettuce and salad dressing need be used. Eggs, meat, fruit, marmalade, cheese, olive or pimento may be used in numerous ways, both singly or in combination, for fillings, Combining of
542 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
flavors should be done carefully. Some combinations that are good are, dates and green peppers chopped and mixed with salad dressing, peanut butter with lemon juice or mayonnaise and sliced bananas, chopped raisins and nuts, peanut butter with chopped prunes or figs, bits of bacon left from breakfast and chopped dates moistened with salad dressing. Cookies, tarts and turnovers are always good and can be kept on hand. Cream puffs and popovers with firm fillings are good for variety. Sometimes home made candy or candied fruits, such as pineapple or cherries, will furnish the sweets that are required. Many other combinations will be suggested by the material you have at hand. While variety is essential it is not necessary to always buy new material for the lunch box.
How can I remove the lime deposit in my tea kettle without injury to the kettle?
The lime deposit in the tea kettle may be removed by boiling a pint of vinegar in it. The acid in the vinegar dissolves the lime which may be easily removed. Wash and rinse the kettle thoroughly before using.
An easy and economical way of making a dustless duster at home is to add one tablespoon of linseed oil and turpentine to one quart boiling water. Wet the cloth in the solution and dry roll and place in box with cover. Cheese cloth or old soft cloths or leg of cotton stockings are good to use.
A pack of small blotters kept on hand may prove to be very useful in an emergency. When anything is spilled on the table cloth a blotter will take up all the moisture and will not allow it to spread, making a large stain. They may be used for other such things with equally good results.
When you have a crack or small leak in your tub, bucket, pan, etc., take an old fruit bottle rubber and light a match to it and apply to the hole on the outside. As the rubber melts press it over the place to be mended. One application will last a long time.—Mrs E. C., Paradise, Utah.
If you have an old brass bed that has become marred and. Unsightly, just cover it with two coats of flat cream paint. When it has dried thoroughly cover with a good walnut stain, your bed will be most attractive—Mrs. F. S., Pine Valley, Utah.
When food is burned in an aluminum kettle, use table salt for cleaning. Sometimes this will prove more effective than other cleansing agents— Miss M. H., Drummond, Idaho.
To remove callouses and corns from the feet, soak them in warm water and scrape with any dull knife or scissors. Apply castor oil freely and rub thoroughly. If this method is persisted in the most stubborn corn will be greatly relieved if not entirely cured.— Mrs. E. B., Blanding, Utah.
Utah State Conference of Social Workers
The first annual conference of the social workers of the state of Utah will be held in Salt Lake City on October 1 and 2. It is expected that this event will be interesting and an educational one, and it marks an event in the history of the development of welfare work in the state. The organization, known as the Utah Conference of Social Work, was effected in Salt Lake City on July 10, 1925, by a group of persons interested in social welfare. It is the purpose of the Conference to promote a better understanding of the work and aims of the various welfare agencies of the state, and to bring about a closer co-operation among agencies which are interested in promoting the welfare of their communities. At the preliminary summer meeting, officers were selected for the ensuing year and these officers are now planning an elaborate two-day session for the first annual meeting. There will be three sessions on the first day, one at ten a. M., another at 2:00 p. M., and an evening session at 8:00 o'clock. On the second day, morning and afternoon meetings will be held. It is expected that some nationally prominent social workers will be present to address the Conference. Persons from various parts of the state engaged in various types of community betterment, will also make addresses. The subjects for discussion will be those of vital interest to all persons engaged in social work. The unemployment problem will be discussed and special sessions will be devoted to child welfare and to family problems. Several round table discussions are planned so that questions can be raised and particular problems can be discussed. The meeting will be open to all persons who are interested in welfare work. The date for the social workers Conference precedes the Relief Society Conference which is October 3, and all visiting Relief Society workers will be made welcome. The officers of the Utah State Conference of Social Work are as follows:
President.......................................Supt. E. J. Milne First Vice President.....................Miss A. A. Buffington Second Vice President....................Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Secretary-Treasurer............................Miss Cora Kasius
The board members are, Miss Kate Williams George W. Worthen B. H. Robinson Eunice Wattis Bowman A. Alma Clayton Mrs. A. H. Bird Daniel Alexander CAutumn By Josephine Spencer. Gone are the forms that the seasons fashioned Of rare-spun garments and rain glow dyes, Delicate blossoms, and blooms impassioned With Springtime's breath and the Summer's sighs. Fled is their radiant life and drifting In purple films of the Autumn's veil, The restless souls of the flowers are lifting The aching sound of a ceaseless wail. O, passionate blooms of the Summer's wearing! O, pale, sweet blossoms of tender Spring! What are the sorrows your souls are bearing In the dim, fair realm of their vanishing? We know they are filled with some tearful longing, For sighs are sounding on every hand In mournful surges of color, thronging The shores of Autumn's shining land. For the dawn is a pensive thought—and a dreaming Of purple eves is the afternoon; And the sunset's glow is a red flood streaming To quench the light of a white-faced moon. And that wistful haze on the far-off mountains, And the throbbing hues on the hillside near, And the leaves that are drying their life's fresh fountains With flame of their red and ash of their sere, Are sad with the pain of the sweet souls filling The Autumn world with their whispered woe; And these minor chords of color are thrilling In touch of a spell which their spirits know. But in that sleep which their souls are nearing, When the snow-tomb creaks on its icy hinge, They will drift to a land beyond our hearing, And take from the landscape its mournful tinge. Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman Garfield Stake The Relief Society stake officers of Garfield stake maintain that they have a difficult district to visit. Garfield stake is unique in having within its borders a ward, namely the Boulder ward, which lies in the eastern part of Garfield county, and which for a distance of forty miles round about has never had an automobile accident. The reason for this is that there are no automobiles there. The lack of the modern conveyance is to be accounted for because of the lack of roads. Those who live in that section, however, declare that they have plenty of pavement, nature-made, out of smooth, white and colored sandstone, the only difficulty with the pavement being that it tends to seek a perpendicular rather than a horizontal position. This is very well from a scenic stand GARFIELD STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ENROUTE TO Visit BOULDER WARD Left to right: President Sarah S. Larson, Counselors Martha A. Bushman and Polly A. Spencer point, however, as Boulder is receiving some attention as the center of Utah's scenic wonderland, though it is as yet inaccessible except to adventurous tourists who make the trip on horse-back. The stake Relief Society officers, however, are not adventurous tourists. They are just home women unaccustomed to horse- 546 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE back-riding who make the trip because it is their duty to do so. Sometimes the officers secure a buck-board and a trusty span of mules or horses and make the journey of about forty-five miles by way of what is known, by courtesy, as "the road," but at other times they take saddle horses, and, with a pocket lunch, a roll of clothing behind them, and a small bag of grain for their horses' noon feed tied on the side, they set out. These trips are not without their pleasant features, of course, in spite of the sore and aching muscles that always result. Two things there are which the visitors are always certain of at the end of their long day's journey, namely, a hearty welcome from the Relief Society members of this little isolated ward and a sense of happiness and satisfaction that attends Relief Society workers everywhere. South Sevier Stake The South Sevier Relief Societies cooperating with the stake Genealogical Society conducted a very successful temple excursion, when ordinance work was performed for 137 persons. The stake presidency accompanied the Relief Society workers on this excursion. The South Sevier stake Relief Society conference was held at the Marysvale ward, Sunday, May 31. A good representation was present from the various wards and an instructive program given, consisting of talks on health, food values, and the value of music in the home, followed by musical numbers. In the early part of Spring, the Relief Societies of the stake conducted a fly campaign. Each president worked diligently along this line soliciting help from the schools and other public institutions, all of which cooperated willingly in the undertaking. The results of the campaign were very satisfactory and gratifying. North Central States Mission. On Thursday evening, August 13, the Minneapolis Relief Society assisted by the Young Ladies and Young Men of the M.. I. A. Presented a pageant which they called, "Our Relief Society." It showed the first meeting held at Nauvoo, March 17, 1842, those representing the early characters appearing in costume and a chorus behind the scene singing, "'Come listen to a prophet's voice." The next scene represented the early days in Utah, when the crops were a failure, and showed some of the women gleaning in the wheat fields as the chorus sang, "Hard times come again no more." The next was a typical literary lesson, the regular teacher giving a sketch of James Whitcomb Riley's life, and other members giving readings and songs from his selections. This was followed by an act in which two Relief Society teachers visited a home and led a discussion on the importance of the extermination of the house fly. Then, while an organ solo was being played, the scene opened NOTES FORM THE FIELD 547 Iona Relief Society member entering the home of a family to watch at the bed side of a sick child that the mother might rest. The closing scene was a work meeting held in Scandinavia, the sisters again being in costume and singing, "I have work enough to do, ere the sun goes down." These scenes were connected by short talks making it a continuous story. In closing, the entire congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice." Liberty Stake The Liberty stake Relief Society teachers are furnished with a neat visiting card which they leave where families are not at home and on the first visit to new families. Both sides of the card are used, and it read as follows: (1) LIBERTY STAKE Relief Society Teachers You are respectfully invited to attend the regular sessions of the Relief Society held each Tuesday at 2 p. M. In the ward chapel. The lessons given are very instructive and interesting. The following subjects are being treated. Ist Tuesday of each month, Theology—Parables of Christ. 2nd Tuesday of each month, Business Meeting and Sewing. 3rd Tuesday of each month, American Literature. Ath Tuesday of each month, Social Service, the Field of Social Welfare. Australian Mission. The following report of the organization of a Relief Society in Perth, West Australia, has just been received from the secretary, Miss Rose Banks. "Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of Australia, with president Charles H. Hyde, visited the West Australian conference, June 14, when the new church was dedicated and a Relief Society organized. There were present at the meeting for the election of officers, 15 women who were desirous of taking part and joining the organization. Mrs. Hyde first of all emphasized 548 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the fact that an organization would not be successful unless there was co-operation on the part of the members and a spirit of harmony, that the members must support the officers, and abide by their rulings and instructions. President Charles H. Hyde, after pointing out that it was absolutely essential that the officers receive the support of the members in order that the work should be successful, proposed that Mrs. Jane Davis be appointed president, Mrs. Lucy Wallace and Mrs. Elsie Wood, counselors. These sisters were unanimously sustained in these positions. It was decided to appoint the secretary, treasurer and class leader at the first meeting of the Society. Mrs. Hyde then explained the work of the organization stressing its great importance and the help that it would be, not only to the needy, but to each individual member and to the conference as a whole. She stated that it was work which had been organized by the word of the Lord and that if the officers and members united, the work would prosper; and if they put their trust in the Lord they would be successful. She expressed confidence that the women in the West Australian conference would work unitedly together, and that the Lord would abundantly bless them in their labors. President Hyde then set the officers apart for this work. On the following Wednesday, June 24, the first meeting of the Society was held, when Rose O. Banks was appointed secretary treasurer of the organization, Mrs. Dolly Banks and Mrs. Clayton were chosen as class leaders. It was decided to hold weekly meetings, and Monday night was chosen as the most suitable night for all to meet as on this night they would be able to meet by themselves." Moapa Stake IN MEMORIAM St. Thomas has sustained a great loss in the passing of Mrs. Martha Ellen Gentry, one of the most noble pioneers and beloved citizens of the Moapa Valley, whose death occurred May 18, 1925. Mrs. Gentry was born in Tocqueville, Utah, in 1859, her parents being among the first settlers of that place. She had a vivid recollection of the hardships and Indian troubles that beset the early settlers at that time. She grew to womanhood in Panaca and while there was greatly interested in Church affairs, being an active worker in the Primary and ward Relief Society. About 1886, she with her husband moved to St. Thomas, where she continued her activities in Church work. She acted as president of the ward Relief Society until 1912, when the Moapa stake was organized. At this time she was called to act as president of the Relief Society of the new stake, which position she held at the time of her death. Mrs. Gentry had a profound faith in God, and a strong and NOTES FORM THE FIELD 549 abiding testimony of the Gospel. Throughout her life, she sought to practice its teachings, ministering to many hundreds in times of sickness and need. Verily she has earned a great reward. She was the mother of nine children, six of whom survive her. The stake Relief Society was reorganized, August 30, 1925, with the following officers: President, Lois E. Jones; counselors, Viola Earl and Mary E. Wells; secretary-treasurer, Ellen Perkins. European Mission. The Edinburgh Relief Society which was reorganized in December, 1924, is a most energetic branch with a membership of 15, an average attendance of 10, and frequent visitors. For a number of months meetings were held at the home of the president, Mrs. Elizabeth Crawford, but through the work and energy of the members, the society is now able to pay rent for a hall in Picardy Place and is thus self-supporting. Funds have been raised by candy sales and by knitting socks, making pillow cases, towels and other THE EDINBURGH RELIEF SOCIETY articles for sale. The society meets weekly, on Tuesday, from 7.30 to 9:30 p. M., and will continue through the summer. The lessons in the Magazine are followed and supplemented by discussions. The members were very much interested in the article on Scott and the Scottish people in the Relief Society Magazine, written by the editor, Mrs. Alice L. Reynolds. This article was read at one of the regular meetings. The chief aim of this Society as stated by the officers is, "To live and help one another and to do everything possible for those who are unfortunate." The officers are: Mrs. Elizabeth Crawford, president, Mrs. Waldie and Mrs. Mary Allen, Counselors, Miss Jeanie Percy, Secretary and organist. Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony THE MOSAIC Dispensation TIME: From the Calling of Moses to the Coming of Christ, PART I A. Moses' Premortal Estate. 1. He was foreordained. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, said, on May 12, 1844: "Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the grand council of heaven before the world was." (See Compendium, Gems, page 285.) In the light of the above declaration and a knowledge of the great spiritual work done by Moses, we are justified in saying. That what was recorded of Jeremiah could have been said of Moses. (See Jer. 1:5.) 2. He was a man of prophetic promise. That the preparation of Moses for his mission as a dispensator was a matter of special consideration in the spirit world is made plain in the Book of Mormon, II Nephi, 3:9, 10, 17. B. In Mortality. 120 years. (Deut. 34:7.) 1. The first forty years. With idolators, but under the protection of the Lord. The evil one had special interest in the captivity or the destruction of Moses, and the Lord had special interests in his preservation. Satan, as he always will be in a contest with God, was defeated. (a) Born under a death sentence of a Devil-inspired King. (Ex. 1:22.) The heinousness of this crime against children had its parallel in the edict of Herod. In each case the cause was jealousy, the major part of which is always cowardice. (b) Saved by a mother of superior intelligence. While the infants of other mothers were being discovered and drowned, she kept her babe from the Egyptian officers for three months. When others paid the penalty of the awful edict she obeyed the letter of the law and escaped the consequences of its evil spirit. There is no room to doubt that God added inspiration to her intelligence. (Ex. 2:2, 3.) (c) Becomes the adopted grandson of the King. No matter how kind the daughter of Pharaoh may have been in disposition, her gentleness had against it the prejudice of the nobility and of GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 551 the populace against anything Hebrew. Egyptian nobility had passed through one experience of having a Hebrew slave placed over them, but her compassion was intensified 'and her courage strengthened by the same power which impelled the mother of Moses to do the unusual. (Ex. 2:6-10.) (d) A scholar, educated by Egyptians but not impressed by their idolatry. He stood in the front ranks both as scholar and athlete. (See Acts 7:22.) The Levite parents of Moses could not pray with their boy Moses, but how they must have prayed for him. 2. The second forty years. (Acts 7:23.) He is with nature, under the inspiration of the Almighty. (a) His heroism. 1. In avenging oppression. See Ex. 2:11-15. Lincoln, when a young man, said of slavery: "If ever I get a chance, I will hit that thing hard." Was not his spirit Mosaic? 2. In repulsing the ruffians. (See Ex. 2:17.) How like his ancestor Jacob was the heroic Moses. It was a case where "blood tells."" A real nobleman will always see that women are protected in their rights. - (b) Heart-power employment. Next to caring for children, the duties of a shepherd in olden time developed a tenderness of feeling the habits of faithfulness. Moses had exchanged the sword for the shepherd's can of which God was to make a wand of matchless power. (Ex. 3:1.) (c) Isolation and meditation. With an exceptional mind, trained to think. Moses in his isolation from the sham and surgings of society, communed with nature, the handmaid of God. Every great person and every great people have had periods of isolation. Each of us needs a short period every day to commune with nature and nature's God. Whoever neglects secret prayers sets aside the opportunity for the development of noble personality. 3. The third forty years. (See Ex. 7:7; Acts 7:30.) Working with the Lord as a servant and as a son. (See Num. 12:7 and P of G. P., Moses 1:4.) (a) The dispensational call. 1. The burning bush.—The spirit of the Lord illuminates without consuming, but the spirit of the evil one consumes without illuminating. Ex. 3:22. The rod of power. There is the possibility of venom in power. It was no harmless snake that Moses fled from. See Ex. 4:3-4. Moses was learning the one great theological lesson of implicit obedience as a preparation for the safe possession of power. (b) The triumph of the Holy Priesthood over Egyptian Sorcery. In the end the authority of God will overcome all else. Trickery must go down before the truth. Such was the lesson taught by the contest. (See Ex. 7:9-12.) 552 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (c) Perfect faith at the seashore. The assurance that God lives, the assurance that He has power and the assurance that one's conduct is in harmony with the will of God, all as gifts from God —this is perfect faith. With the sea in front of them and the Egyptian army behind them, Israel's leader shouted: "Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord.' The command was the expression of perfect faith. (Ex. 14:13.) The eloquence of that utterance is excelled only by the command, "Peace, be still."" Panic stricken Israel obeyed the one and the elements obeyed the other. One was the call of delegated authority, the other was the command of inherent authority. In days of doubt or fear or even rising rebellion, every one of us needs the faith to hear and heed the Mosaic call, "Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord." (d) The sacrifice at Sinai. Moses had given up his princely position and the possibilities of national fame for the possibility of aiding enslaved Israel and was betrayed by those he sought to help. He had sacrificed the peace of a pastoral life for a conflict with the wizards of counterfeit wisdom and the burdens of leadership of a wayward people. And now he set aside an offer of exaltation and offered to God his registration in the Book of God's election to save the worshipers of a Golden Calf from banishment from the recognition and care of the Lord. (See Ex. 32:9, 10, 31, 32.) (e) Marvelous authorship. Who today can hope to write a book that will be on the lead in three thousand years from now? The five books of Moses in the Bible hold high place in human interest. The best literature of the Hebrew race and of the Christian world is all flavored with Mosaic authorship. Moses as a writer fulfilled prophecy. See II Nephi 1, 8, 7. (4) The passing away with the Keys of the Holy Priesthood. See Compendium, Gems, page 287. True to his '"'meekness" Moses accepted without complaint the sentence passed upon him by the Lord and went to the place where he was to see the end of his life as leader of Israel. It was a place of contest. Michael, the arch-angel, and Lucifer, his opponent in the war in heaven, were there. They contended concerning the body of Moses. Did the Lord decide that Moses should be translated? Satan certainly would have no use for the dead body; he would have an interest in demanding that Moses be deprived of his body and sent back to the spirit world as far removed as possible from the field where Satan is permitted to operate.' See Deut. 33:48-52; 34:4, and especially Jude 9. (g) Moses Since God "Buried Him." 1. He met on the mountain with the Savior, Elias, Peter James and John, when the Father's voice was heard (See Matt. 17; GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 553 1-9). This was evidently one of the greatest meetings ever held on the earth. 2. He restored the Keys of the Gathering of Israel at the Kirtland Temple, April 3, 1836. (See Doc. And Cov., 110:11.). So Moses has, in person, taken part in three gospel dispensations. Questions and Problems 1. Give theological proof that Moses was foreordained: for his mission. 2. Show that the mother of Moses was a woman of rare intelligence. 3. What reasons have we for believing that Moses resembled Jesus? (See Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:3.) 4. Show that the meekness of Moses consisted in obeying the Lord and refusing to obey Satan. (See Pearl of Great Price, Moses 2:12-22.) 5. Show that Moses was a participant in three gospel dispensations. 6. Discuss Moses as one who completed the cycle of existence described in the Hymn, "Oh my Father." 7. Discuss the Statement: "Moses has been moving the world for more than 3,000 years and is still moving it." 8. Show that Moses, the leader of ancient Israel, was under the personal direction of Jehovah, the Christ, yet unborn as the "Only Begotten." See Exodus 6:1-8. LESSON II (Second Week in December) Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR DECEMBER "Not what we give, but what we share, For the gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself with his alms, feeds three, Himself, his hungering neighbor and Me." 1. Broadcast Christmas cheer and make yourself happy by serving others. 2. Allow nothing to enter the home or the hearts of those who dwell there to crush the true Christmas spirit. 3. Recall the last incidents in Christ's life to realize the value of this true spirit. 4. Christ's greatest gift was himself in service of those who needed spiritual food and comfort. 5. No Latter-day Saint family can afford to neglect the opportunity afforded at this season of the year to teach and encourage the spirit of peace and good will toward all. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 4 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December) AMERICAN POETS AND THE WORLD WAR The great world-war stimulated a number of talented poets in England, Canada and the United States. Unfortunately a great many of these men and women were victims of the war in one way and another. Of these poets America claims Joyce Kilmer, Alan Seeger and Charles Divine. The American public received a shock, in August, 1918, over which it has hardly yet recovered, when the daily press carried the news that Joyce Kilmer had fallen in action; for Joyce Kilmer had written "Trees," and "Trees" is one of the most exquisite poems ever written by an American. The poem was written for Mrs. Kerry Mills Alden: TREES I think that I shall never see A poem lovely as a tree. A tree whose hungry mouth is prest Against the earth's sweet flowing breast. A tree that looks at God all day, And lifts her leafy arms to pray; A tree that may in summer wear A nest of robins in her hair; Upon whose bosom snow has lain, Who intimately lives with rain. Poems are made by fools like me, But only God can make a tree. Soon after Joyce Kilmer's death, Mr. Irving Clarke, a citizen of the state of Massachusetts wrote this tribute to him which appeared in the New York Times: "T have been looking at the tree tops silhouetted against the sun's sky and reverently recalling Joyce Kilmer's "Trees." From his boyhood on the banks of the old Raritan, through the beautiful years of his poetic young manhood to his heroism in the fight for freedom, Joyce Kilmer grew strong and beautiful as a tree in the open, under the sky. His tribute to the trees is immortal, his tribute to humanity is celestial." "I think that I shall never scan A. Tree as lovely as a man, A tree depicts divinest plan, But God himself lives in a man." GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 555 When Rupert Brooke, the young English poet, fell upon the battlefield, it was Joyce Kilmer who wrote the most touching tribute on this side of the Atlantic. Occasionally a man in paying tribute to another writes his own best epitaph; this Joyce Kilmer has done, so we include it in the lesson: IN MEMORY OF RUPERT BROOKE 'In alien earth, across a troubled sea, His body lies that was so fair and young. His mouth is stopped with half his song unsung; His arm is still that struck to make men free. But let no cloud of lamentation be Where, on a warrior's grave, a lyre is hung, We keep the echoes of his golden tongue, We keep the vision of his chivalry. So Israel's joy, the loveliest of kings, Smote now his harp, and now the hostile horde; Today the starry roof of Heaven rings With psalms a soldier made to praise his Lord. And David rests beneath Eternal wings, Song on his lips, and in his hand a sword." ALAN SEEGER Alan Seeger was born in New York on June 22, 1888. His parents who were of old New England stock moved to Staten Island when Alan was a baby one year of age. He received his preparatory education at the Staten Island Academy and the Horace Mann School, and his college work at Harvard University. The war was only three weeks old when Seeger went to France and enlisted. He loved France and was willing to fight for it. Seeger was invited to write a poem to be read before the statues of Lafayette and Washington, in Paris, on Decoration Day, during the period of his service. The committee, consisting of American residents of France, asked that he write an ode in memory of the American volunteers fallen for France. His leave of absence did not arrive in time for him to attend the service, but fortunately the poem was written. It is one of the noblest poems of the war. Mr. William Archer has written an account of Alan Seeger's death so we include it in Mr. Archer's words: "On July 1, the great advance began. At six in the evening of July Fourth, the Legion was ordered to clear the enemy out of the village of Belloy-en-Santerre. Alan Seeger advanced in the first rush, and his squad was infiltrated by the fire of six German machine guns, concealed in a hollow way. Most of them went down, wounded in several places. * * * As his comrades came up to him, Alan cheered them on, and they left him behind; as they passed on they heard him singing a marching song in English. They took the village, they drove the invaders out; but for some reason unknown, perhaps
556 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a very good reason, the battlefield was left unvisited that night. Next morning Alan Seeger lay dead." Like Joyce Kilmer, Alan Seeger wrote his own best epitaph in the poem prepared for Decoration Day. We quote it: "Aye, it is fitting on this holiday, Commemorative of our soldier dead, When, with sweet flowers of our New England May, Hiding the lichened stones by fifty years made grey, Their graves in every town are garlanded, That pious tribute should be given, too, To our intrepid few, Obscurely fallen here beyond the seas. * * * * * Now heaven be thanked, we gave a few brave drops; Now heaven be thanked, a few brave drops were ours. * * * * There, holding still, in frozen steadfastness, Their bayonets towards the beckoning frontiers, They lie—our comrades—lie among their peers, Clad in the glory of fallen warriors. Grim clusters under thorny trellises, Dry, furthest foam upon disastrous shores, * * * * * And on those furthest ruins of hallowed ground Where the forlorn, the gallant charge expires When the slain bugler has long ceased to sound, And on, the tangled wires The last wild rally staggers, crumbles, stops, Withered beneath the shrapnel's iron showers:— Now heaven be thanked, we gave a few brave drops; Now heaven be thanked, a few brave drops were ours." One of the finest stanzas from the pen of Alan Seeger, having in mind the Americans who died in France, reads: "Opposed to their Elysian quietude; Our salutations calling from afar, From our ignoble plane And indistinction of our lesser parts; Hail, brothers, and farewell; you are twice blest, brave hearts; Double your glory is who perished thus, For you have died for France and vindicated us." Some critics say that "I have a rendezvous with Death," is the poem above all others that gives Alan Seeger his place with the best of the poets of the last war. The first and second stanzas of that poem follow: "I have a rendezvous with Death, At some disputed barricade, When Spring comes back with rustling shade And apple-blossoms fill the air— I have a rendezvous with Death. When Spring brings back blue days and fair,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 557
"It may be he shall take my hand And lead me into his dark land, And close my eyes and quench my breath— It may be I shall pass him, still— I have a rendezvous with Death, On some scarred slope of battered hill; When Spring comes round again this year And the first meadow flowers appear."
CHARLES DIVINE.
Charles Divine was a private in the Army, belonging to the 27th Division U. S. A. Before the war Divine was a reporter on the New York Sun, and in leisure moments he wrote verses for Life, Smart Set and various other magazines. Already his verses had attracted some attention, but the war made them conspicuous. He was born January 20, 1899, at Binghampton, New York. He grew very impatient in the military camp, in the U. S. A., and was apparently greatly pleased when his division was ordered to France. In a letter written after the order came, he said: "Being with the sanitary troops, expect to go through the war unharmed and come back and be run over by a baby carriage." The best pen sketches of soldier life, so far as America's contribution is concerned, were written by Charles Divine. Joyce Kilmer and Alan Seeger wrote of the great sacrifice, Charles Divine of actual soldier life. In one of his sketches the poet writes first of the oak trees and pine trees near the camp, and then he says: "Here soldiers sit bent over tubs And wash their clothes with rhythmic rubs. Through leaves, white-tipped, each open space Floods: moonlight, patterned songs, and lace; A silver bush on moon-sprayed ground Breathes music sweeter than a sound. Where beauty is, are loves, desires, Night's vague and vibrant softness fires; Adventures brighten in the South— Where romance calls from full-lipped mouth— And see! The lifted arms hang still, A moment's doubt that guns can kill. Then scrubbing hands forget the night: 'Who's got the soap? The grease sticks tight'." The Lavender Lantern, gives us another sketch of soldier life, which has been described as, "as honest and charming a bit of verse as ever came from a poet turned soldier:" "I wonder who is haunting the little snug cafe, That place, half restaurant and home, since we have gone away; The candled dimness, smoke and talk, and tables brown and bare— But no one thinks of table cloths when love and laughter's there." The war of the American Revolution gave us a group of poets as did also the Great Civil War; and in the output of poetry
558 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that has come to us from the Great World War we have an example of history repeating itself. Any period of time that tries and stirs men's souls as do the times of war is sure to develop a group of singers.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Joyce Kilmer was a religious man who believed in the Divinity of Christ. Do you discover anything in the poem "Trees" that marks him as a religious man?
2. Explain the lines: "Today the starry roof of Heaven rings With psalms a soldier made to praise his Lord." Who was the soldier who made the psalms to praise his Lord?
3. Select from Alan Seeger's poem, written to be read on Decoration Day, in Paris, lines descriptive of the mode of warfare in the last great war.
4. What does the word rendezvous mean?
5. Explain the lines in Charles Divine's poem: "And see! The lifted arms hang still, A moment's doubt that guns can kill."
6. What evidence is there in this poem of Charles Divine that he loves nature?
LESSON IV
Social Service
(Fourth Week in December )
THE SPIRIT OF SOCIAL WORK
It has been the purpose of the discussions in this department for the past two years to point out some existing social problems and to discuss some of the principles of study and treatment that are followed by the students of social science of our day. As the closing lesson in this course of methods in welfare work, it perhaps will be valuable to interpret some of the principles and methods previously discussed, in the light of the theory and philosophy of social work. Social work, in its broadest sense, is as old as the history of mankind. The sick and the old and the helpless have always been given some sort of attention and care. The crippled and aged, begging on the streets, dependent on the bounty of almsgivers, are familiar figures in fiction and history. The early Christian Church undertook to shelter and care for the aged, the orphans, the sick and the helpless. Various religious orders sheltered the homeless, took provisions to the destitute, and trained nurses to administer to the sick.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 559
The state, too, has felt some obligation for the care of its citizens. Wounded soldiers and the orphans of soldiers were recognized as a state responsibility even in old Roman days. Hospital and institutional care by the state were gradually extended until it found its most inclusive, and perhaps its most inhumane, functioning in the workhouse of the nineteenth century. The sick, the delinquent, the aged, the criminal, and the orphans were all crowded together, made to care for one another, and all fed on the most miserable fare. In our country the outstanding example was the Bellevue Workhouse in New York City of fifty years ago, which is now reformed into a modern public hospital. Another form of beneficence administered by the state, has been the granting of small sums by city or county units, to their unfortunate members. This relief has been termed "out-door" relief to distinguish such assistance from institutional care. It was for many years a subject for controversy among public officials, whether the policy of giving outdoor relief instead of sending all the needy to the workhouse did not increase the number of indigents. Such an inquiry, superficial as it seems now, was perhaps one of many that led thoughtful persons to closer study of the problems of economic failure and to attempt to find methods that would relieve the world of the problems of failure and dependency. So the first of the modern studies of social problems centered about economic failures and dependency. The most optimistic social economists of a few decades ago were confident that the abolition of poverty was possible by industrial reform. There followed an encouraging era of betterment of industrial conditions. The wage scale increased, working conditions were improved, children were legislated out of factories, and women were given some industrial protection. At this time, legislation was enacted to better living conditions, to improve building and sanitary conditions and to protect tenants from exploitation. Workmen's compensation acts were passed to protect the workman and his family in case of injury or death. Admirable as these and other social reforms are, it was found that the problem of poverty and dependency was not solved. There were still a number in every community who fail to be self-maintaining. So the trend of study and research in social problems of the last quarter century has extended into a more personal study of causes and treatment of social maladjustments. The emphasis of many recent studies has been on the individual, and on the individual causes of failure. The treatment applied has been personal, individual treatment, in contrast with the disbursing of doles or the crowding into a workhouse of less than fifty years ago. The social workers of today, then, realize that the treatment of social problems depends upon a two-fold program; first, upon
560 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a continued legislative program and upon the improvement of the environment, including industrial conditions and educational and recreation facilities; and second, upon a growing ability to understand individual capacities and limitations, and to adjust the individual in a sphere that will foster his greatest development. The early faith that poverty and other social ills could be remedied still motivates much of our social work. It is true that intelligent treatment can often change the social failure into a self-maintaining individual. A tubercular man, if given proper treatment during the first year or two of his illness, can be returned to his place in society and can continue as the breadwinner of the family. Likewise, by investing adequate care and education in a child, who is dependent because of the death or failure of his parents, he can be trained to become a useful and successful member of society. It is also recognized that by providing an income to a widow with a family of children, perhaps for a long period of time, the normal development of this family is made possible. Under such circumstances, the expenditures of private or public funds, is justified, for there are now a great many studies which show that such investments pay the community dividends in rehabilitated, useful, and independent members of society. But as social workers have become more analytical of their work, they have found that providing funds and medical care and vocational training, etc., did not always result in adjusting a failing individual or in steadying an unstable family. The fields of psychology and medicine, in many instances, make it possible to predict whether a person can be expected to be successful. The mental expert can measure an individual's alertness and capabilities, and can direct the type of endeavor in which he is most likely to succeed. It has been found that certain individuals have limitations which they can not overcome, and no great measure of success can be expected of them. If the responsibilities of adult life, of providing for a family, or keeping house and caring for a number of children, is too difficult and intricate, perhaps assistance of some sort will be necessary. It may be advisable to find the man a simpler employment at which he can succeed, or to give the woman kindly assistance and training in the essentials of child care., It has also been found that certain individuals need permanent assistance, supervision, or hospitalization. It may be that some day individuals, now considered more or less permanently afflicted, can be restored to health and activity, but until that day, society must assume the responsibility of providing kindly and adequate care for them—the feebleminded, the maimed, the epileptic, the mentally ill, etc. The task of the social worker is obviously not a simple one. The old method of giving provisions or funds upon request, at irregular periods, can have no constructive wholesome effect on
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 561
the recipient. Likewise, to withhold relief because it appeared that the family was careless or indolent, could have no great beneficent effect. The causes of failure are so complex and interwoven, and the road to rehabilitation is such a long and discouraging one, that temporary interest and haphazard giving is a very little contribution. The only care that is constructive is based upon careful study of the environment, history, health and capacities of the individuals concerned, and upon a long period of interested, intelligent treatment. The responsibilities of the social worker are so great and the progress often so slow that the first reaction is one of discouragement and futility. It is true that one individual contribution to the field of social service is infinitesimal, but is this not true in any field of endeavor, art, science, education, or statecraft? The faith of the social worker must lie not in her own contribution to any particular problem, but in the spirit and organization of social work. A society, in which the stronger and abler, feel and assume a responsibility for its weaker members, can not fail, in the end, to make a great contribution to human progress and happiness. It is the social worker's reward to be a part of an organization that seeks to extend human development and happiness.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Why was the early Christian church active in caring for the unfortunate?
2. Why was the care given at a workhouse inadequate and inhumane?
3. Why cannot the problem of poverty be entirely solved by industrial reform? 4, Why does it pay to give adequate care to the family of a sick man? Of a widowed family?
4. Why is long, continued supervision of a family sometimes necessary?
Love
Patriotism
Susan Coolidge
He serves his country best Who lives pure life, and doeth righteous deed, And walks straight paths however others stray, And leaves his sons as uttermost bequest A stainless record which all men may read; This is the better way.
No drop but serves the slowly drifting tide; No dew but has an errand to some flower; No smallest star but sheds some helpful ray, And man by man, each helping all the rest, Make firm the bulwark of the country's power,
Regular readers of the Deseret News may obtain one of these policies by paying a registration fee of $1.00. Write today so we can send you full details and tell you all about this unusual offer Just send your name and address, no obligation. All we want is a chance to tell you all about it.
$500 ACCIDENT INSURANCE FOR EVERY SUBSCRIBER OF
The Deseret News
DESERET NEWS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Mail Orders Filled Same Hour Received
Write Vera Keene The Paris Personal Mail Order Shopper
The Paris Co. 28-38 E. Bdwy.
Such Nice Light Bread
As your heart delights in can best be baked from our WHITE FAWN brand of flour. No matter how skillful you are WHITE FAWN FLOUR will enable you to attain still better results. If your baking has not been all that you would like try our flour. You will commence doing better at once.
Salt Lake & Jordan Mill & Elevator Co. Manufacturers of all Grades of Fine Patent Roller Mills Flour. Dealers in all Kinds of Grain, Millstuffs, Etc.
TELEPHONE 682. R. M. HOLT, SECY., TREAS. AND MGR.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Utah's supreme loud speaker.
"UTAH" LOUD SPEAKER SPEAKS FOR ITS SELF
THE GUARANTEED LOUD SPEAKER
We say it to be the best manufactured in the United States today. Ask the man who has one. We are manufacturers—not assemblers.
GUARANTEE
Buy a Utah and use it for two weeks. Compare its tone with the best the others are able to produce. If the Utah does not give better reception return it to your dealer and he will refund your money.
THE UTAH SUPREME. Finished in a soft antique mahogany, designed to please both eye and ear. Measures 10½x8x7¼. Weight 8 pounds. Price $25.00
Radio Products Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Vanity Hosiery Shop 22 EAST BROADWAY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair..................................................................$1.75 Box of Three Pairs.................................................$5.50
Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair................................................................$1.25 Box of Three Pairs................................................$4.25
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair................................................................$1.50 Box of Three Pairs.................................................$4.25
Holeproof Hosiery Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, Chiffon. All Colors Per Pair................................................................$1.95 Box of Three Pairs................................................$2.89
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL is pure, sweet and rich in food value. Made from choicest ripe French Olives. Ideally good in salads and dressings. And for sacred uses—its purity makes it the ideal choice.
Say Blue Pine to your Grocer
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XII NOVEMBER, 1925 No. 11
CONTENTS
Rheims Cathedral..........................................Frontispiece Armistice Hymn.........................................................563 The Editor Abroad............................Alice L. Reynolds 565 Diet for the School Child...........................Jean Cox 564 Editorial—Arise and Shine Amid the World's Deep Night......581 Armistice Day..........................................................582 Home Again............................................................583 Condolence...........................................................584 My Prayer.........................................Juanita Pulsipher 584 Golden-Rod...............................Elsie Talmage Brandley 585 Endurance.........................................Josie E. Childs 592 Of Interest to Women............................Lalene H. Hart 594 Your Flag and My Flag....................................Nesbit 596 Keep a Health Budget..............................James H. Wallis 597 Notes from the Field..........................Amy Brown Lyman 599 Guide Lessons for January, 1926..............................605
Room 28 Bishop's Bldg. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
For our success we are indebted to our friends
Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 65 West First South
Call Your Nearest ICE CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES
Our 30c Brick or deliciously different 50c Special
PHONE WAS.5225
GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP
Southern Pacific Lines
THREE TRAINS DAILY FROM SALT LAKE CITY AND OGDEN PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY. For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write. P. BANCROFT, General Agent. 41 South Main Street. Wasatch 3008 Wasatch 3078.
Mail Orders Filled Same Hour Received
Write Vera Keene The Paris Personal Mail Order Shopper
The Paris Co. 28-38 E. Bdwy.
Our Advertisers are our friends. Remember them when Shopping.
AMY BROWN LYMAN, Asst. Mgr. Relief Society Magazine
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
ASK YOUR DEALER FOR
Z. C. M. I. FACTORY-MADE
Children's Allovers Khaki and Khaki and White-Backed Peggy Clothes, for Denim for Girls— Dutch Kut, for Boys—
The Famous Mountaineer Overalls Give Splendid Satisfaction
Mothers, do you know that the best leather soles will wear three times longer than poor ones? They are water proof too.
You just try the Royal Shoe Repairing Co. 38 So. Main Street, Salt Lake City "Parcel post a specialty"
Money for Home Building
"Ask us about it"
Ashton-Jenkins Co.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Build a Better Home, We'll Finance You
A business man says I will not get anything out of this kind of advertising. Maybe not, and yet the few dollars I am putting into it shows I appreciate the unselfish work of the Relief Society, so after all I do get something out of it— the satisfaction of helping a good cause.
Dr. M. H. Dearden Eye Strain Specialist 503-504 Utah Savings & Trust Co. Bldg.
The Reliable Mail Order House
1069 E. 21st SOUTH
Price List for Fall and Winter 1925-26
WE HAVE NO AGENTS, BUY DIRECT AND SAVE FROM 25% TO 30%
No. 51 L. D. S. Garments Fine Rib only in L. D. S. New Style..........$1.25
Any of the following numbers can be made up in EITHER NEW or OLD STYLE L. D. S. GARMENT or MEN'S or LADIES' Union Suits.
No. 50 Flat Weave 95c No. 52 Fine Rib $1.00 No. 54 Bleached Cotton $1.15 No. 56 Unbleached $1.00 No. 58 Heavy Unbleached $1.25 No. 60 Fine Bleached $1.25 No. 66 Merc. $1.50 No. 10 ½ Wool $1.50 No. 64 Lisle $2.25 No. 72 ¾ Wool $1.75 No. 74 Silk and Wool $2.75
For MEN'S Union Suits ONLY
No. 92 All Worsted Wool Grey...........................$ 9.50 No. 96 All Worsted Wool Black.......................... 9.50
All Wool Blankets 5 lb. Double 66-80.................. 8.50 All Wool Men's Sweater Coats.......................... 6.25 All Wool Men's Shirts................................. 5.75 All Wool Overcoats....................................$18.50
If you are not perfectly satisfied with any of our goods, we refund the money
WRITE FOR SAMPLES
Why Pay More For Ladies' Silk Hose When You Can Get A Pure Silk Hose in Any Shade for $1.00 $5.50 $7.00
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Competent Workers Are Well Paid
There is dignity, satisfaction and financial reward in a good office position. Our courses qualify you in a short time for one of these most desirable places.
Let us show you what our graduates have done and are doing. Let us prove the value of our training.
Fall Term Begins September 8 Call or Write Now!
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Cook it Perfectly on an Electric Range
Electric Cooking is CLEANER MORE ECONOMICAL MORE PLEASANT
Because you have NO ASHES—NO SOOT NO FUMES—NO SMOKE LOW OPERATION COST
Any range in our stock can be placed in your home for $5.00 DOWN, with 24 months time on the balance.
Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service.
We carry these old standard lines of MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
Chickering, Marshall & Wendell, Brewster pianos. Ampico Reproducing Action in the Chickering and Marshall & Wendell.
Gulbransen Registering Pianos and Straight Pianos.
Victor, Edison and Brunswick Phonographs
Holton Band and Orchestra Instruments
One of these fine instruments will make and extremely appropriate Christmas Gift.
Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co. 161 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
Every L. D. S. Home Should Have,
A Garden full of spring flowers.
"O, My Father" "We Thank Thee, O God for A Prophet"
We Offer 50 Giant Darwins in Mixed Colors for $2 postpaid
Almost without a rival for brilliance of bloom the Darwin Tulip is justly one of the most popular
Peonies, Phlox, Gaillardia, Shasta Daisies and scores of other hardy plants should be planted this Fall for best results. We carry the largest assortment of Fall Bulbs and Plants in the West. Write for Free Catalog
P.-W's Seed and Nursery Specialists SALT LAKE CITY
Double 75c Columbia Record
We Offer FOR $2.00
These records are brand new—regular 75c value— a selection on each side. Specially priced now at....49c
Add 10c for Postage and Packing
Mail Coupon—We Ship Anywhere
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO. 61-3-5 So. Main, Salt Lake, Utah.
Send me record No. 2073, I enclose 49c.
In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience.
We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at 260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City Telephones: Was. 5132 and Hyland 180 Ogden, 466 24th St. Telephone 821-W
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
ARMISTICE HYMN
Hail! Day of Armistice, hail to the nations Quenching the fire of the thunderous guns; Ended the anguish of war's desolations Broken the strength of the terrible ones.
Hail to the warriors peacefully sleeping, Nameless or known in the cross-covered plains; Bow we with those who sit quietly weeping, Bearing their loss for the world's richer gains.
We will be keeping the tryst ye decreed us, Ye who lie under the wave and the sod; Watchful we stand, guarding all that has freed us, Resting our deeds in the judgment of God.
Hail Day of Brotherhood, hail to the morning Of the new day that has scarcely begun, When, o'er the earth in that glorious dawning. Goodwill shall triumph and all men be one.
"RHEIMS CATHEDRAL, THE SHRINE IN BEST BELOVED FRANCE, BEFORE ITS BAPTISM OF FIRE."
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XII NOVEMBER, 1925 No. 11
The Editor Abroad
Egypt
Alice L. Reynolds
A trip of five days from the city of Marseilles brought my traveling companion and me to the city of Alexandria in Egypt. Meeting congenial people is one of the pleasures of travel, so that we were glad to discover, opposite us at our first meal on the steamship Sphinx, Mr. And Mrs. Kenneth Brown of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Mr. Brown, like Miss Elliott and myself, is a teacher; the English department of Harvard University being his place of service. We soon learned that Mr. And Mrs. Brown had in mind visiting the same countries that we expected to visit, so that our lot was happily cast together through the Orient. Long before our ship cast anchor in the harbor of Alexandria, the interest of this strange land had fastened itself upon us. The semi-circular, white city, as we saw it in the distance, nestled under a blue sky with the blue waters of the Mediterranean stretched before it, suddenly became alive with its "turbaned host," its jumble of strange houses, strange vehicles, and strange people with yet stranger languages and stranger cries. The temper of the Orient manifested itself in the small matter of taking our baggage to the customs and to the outgoing train for Cairo. Two men had been detailed to look after us, one from the travel bureau in Alexandria, with which we were connected, the other from the hotel where reservations had been made for us
566 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in Cairo. One was a large, dark-skinned husky; the other, dark also, but of slender build. Both had been told to look after us and both seemed to take their commission most seriously. Instead of talking the matter over and seeing where the mistake occurred, they began fighting for possession. The small man suspecting he would be outmatched by the large one, watched his chance hoping to creep up to the baggage and get it when the other was not looking. On one of these attempted "sneaks" on the part of the small man, they got into a real fight which resulted in the larger gaining control. At the height of the contest, Mrs. Kenneth Brown stepped quickly behind the big burly fellow, saying as she did so, "I know nothing of the 'rights' or 'wrongs' in this matter, but I am going to stay by the big man; he is the best fighter." As we rode along from Alexandria to Cairo the skyline was broken by long stately rows of date palms, and by a moon of extraordinary size. On reaching Cairo we were received at the door of our hotel by a man in an elegant Oriental costume of white and lemon-colored silk, with the appropriate number of spangles and dangles on his headgear. We found our beds completely enveloped in soft, white, double mosquito netting, which
THE EDITOR ABROAD 567
looked regal enough, we thought, to have been the bed of Cleopatra. Still better things awaited us. Egypt retains the past and takes on the present. The next morning, stepping from our room on to a veranda, we were aware that we were on the most important street of Cairo. What we saw was a veritable moving picture; a street pageant whose parts needed only to be closed up a bit to make it one of the most splendid of pageants, and this was the real thing. In all probability the streets of Cairo are the most interesting streets in the world. Here are some of the things to be seen from a veranda or window: women wearing the veil which is usually black, although it is occasionally white, and is held in place by a very large, yellow spool that stretches across the forehead and attaches to the headpiece, holding it in place. The Oriental uses his head (or more frequently it is her head) for whatever is to be carried; consequently, we saw in the group women with water bottles on their heads. Sometimes they carried baskets full of vegetables, and once we saw a woman with a box containing live chickens upon her head. It is customary for women to carry children on their shoulders; indeed, one of the picturesque sights of the Orient is that of a woman carrying a small child upon her shoulder. Jostled together, pedestrians and equestrians alike, we saw, on this same street, donkeys trudging along, bearing sometimes a man in a simple white garment, with the usual headpiece held by a cord, and sometimes a man with an inner and outer garment that suggested a flowing robe. The camel with his stately stride, his head held high and his long neck decorated with strands of blue beads to keep away the evil eye, always attracts attention. Every conceivable sort of vehicle may be seen, from a rumbling old wagon to an up-to-date automobile. Now and again one sees a type of carriage that suggests the elegance of the past, carrying a woman in a white gown, profusely decorated with gold and silver ornaments. Our guess was that she was an Egyptian bride, although, through our American eyes, she looked very much like a person dressed for a fourth of July pageant. Yet this street was to take on a much more colorful appearance later in the day. A very short distance from our hotel was Shepherd's
568 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
hotel; the haunt of the fashionable tourist. In front of this. Hotel, particularly during the season, the guides, who seem to have adopted the stock name of "Moses," congregate. Their garments attract a good deal of attention as they are usually of very brilliant colors. Blue seemed to be a favorite color with them: whether it is worn by them as by the camels to keep the evil eye away we did not learn. These guides had as a rule both the inner and outer garment, and wore upon their heads the red cap with the black tassel, prevalent in Mohammedan countries—the hat that marks the man of the east for Americans. We include a description of the costume of our guide because he was exceptionally well dressed. His outer garment was of broadcloth, mustard-color; his inner garment was of silk, with a golden brown pin stripe upon a creamy background. A girdle of crushed silk, that harmonized with the robe, held the inner garment at the waist. About his neck he wore a scarf of Damascus silk, having a wine-colored-background and a border of green and silver stripes. The fringe, elaborate in character, was of black tied with silver. The red cap, with the black tassel common to his country, blended into the colors of his costume, making it harmonious and unusually effective. He was a very intelligent young man speaking English with scarcely an accent. His people came from Sudan. The English people, in Egypt, say the inhabitants of Sudan are to be preferred to the Egyptians; our guide would seem to bear out this contention. He was in all probability a Mohammedan, as he reacted very quickly in one of the mosques when a tourist, no doubt striving to be witty, asked if the camels were allowed within the mosques. On the instant, our guide replied, "Yes, and the donkeys also." Still not all the interesting sights were to be seen on this street of well known hotels. One of the strangest sights in Egypt is that of the water carrier, bending low under the burden of a goat skin full of water thrown across his back. This sight may be seen on the side streets at most any time. When we visited the graves of the Mamelukes we saw a man pouring water from the neck of a goat skin on the lawn. Then, too, the vendors of all sorts, so characteristic of Eastern and Italian life, lend color and motion to the scene, as well as a
THE EDITOR ABROAD 569
good deal of noise by their varied cries. We could not make our way along the street without being stopped by boys, with brush in hand, perchance at the entrance to a mosque, in front of the king's palace, or the great museum, who told us of the dust upon our shoes. These vendors carry many things upon their shoulders which they offer for sale. In fact, anything from an armful of Oriental rugs to a small boxful of green and brown beetles which they declare are genuine scarabs, although it is generally known that they are manufactured. Beads are always in evidence, although the mummy beads are perhaps most frequently offered to tourists.
570 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The bazaars of Cairo are interesting. There, in the midst of dirt and dust, and sometimes ragged denizens of the street, one sees shops displaying most attractive wares: charming necklaces, bracelets, scarfs of gold and silver sheen, as well as many lovely bronzes. / The camel is the great carry-all of this part of the country. Practically all people know how useful it is upon the desert, while not so many people are acquainted with its great usefulness in the inhabited parts. If a young woman is married, the wedding train may consist of the bride mounted upon a camel, followed by more camels loaded with the furniture she will place in her home. Camels take the place of the moving van in the east: we were told that even so bulky a piece of furniture as a piano is sometimes strapped to a camel's back. On the country roads they are sometimes seen carrying boxes of live chickens, great bundles of cotton, hay, boxes of oranges, in fact anything and everything that needs to be carried. Intermingled with all these things that are so typically Oriental, one sees the electric tram, the railroad train, perchance the latest make of automobile, and over and above all, he hears the whir of the aeroplane. Egypt owes its past, stretching far into the centuries behind us, as also its present, to the Nile river. This great river is reached in a few minutes from Cairo, either by a tram car or an automobile. On reaching it one's attention may be drawn to many things: our party took delight in the picturesque sail boats that still ply its waters, and in the flowers that we found in full bloom in the month of February. Modern means of transportation brings the great pyramids very close to the city of Cairo. On our way to the pyramids we past villages whose mud dwellings would look familiar to Joseph or Moses, so the historian tells us. These monuments of stone have excited admiration and wonder throughout the centuries, and it is fairly safe to say that they will continue to do so as long as they grace the earth. As the sun sank behind them into the desert, and as the moon cast its mellow light upon them, there came to us thoughts of the days when the Patriarchs Abraham and Joseph knew them.
THE EDITOR ABROAD 571
It is a fact worthy of note that many of the most "noteworthy architectural developments of the world take their origin from the cult of the dead. Of all the mighty Pharaohs who ruled in Egypt, only one has left us a fragment of his palace, but scarce one was so careless of his mortal remains that his tomb is not preserved to this day. Nay, more, we have tombs of every class—tombs of personages from the humblest to the most exalted, and we can trace step by step their evolution from the simple 'mound of sand to the mighty pyramid—the most colossal of all human buildings." (This paragraph is taken from Mr. H. H. Powers' book on Egypt.) The largest of these pyramids is the great pyramid of Cheops, covering thirteen acres. A stone's throw from this great pyramid, one finds golf links, and close to it, in another direction, excavations are being carried on by Harvard University. At no great distance from this mighty pyramid is the Sphinx. Just what this mysterious Sphinx represents has been a matter of constant controversy, and opinions still remain so varied as to its origin that they are not worthy of quoting in this article. However, we cannot pass it by without one observation which touches once again the destructiveness of war. It is a regretable fact that Napoleon's soldiers, while in Egypt, levelled their guns at the nose of this mighty monument, that had stood through the ages, and partly destroyed it. We now turn for a few moments to the city of Cairo, which
572 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was a rival of both Bagdad and Damascus at the time when Moslem culture and Arab splendor covered that part of the world. It was during this period that the mosques of Cairo were built, and the tombs of the caliphs. It is evident that the architecture of the mosque follows the architecture of the Christian east, resembling churches to be found in Russia, Constantinople, and even the well-known Church of St. Marks in Venice. It is different from them in that it adds the minaret which is said to be the only contribution that the Moslem world has made to architecture. One of the finest mosques in the city of Cairo is the mosque of Sultan Hasan. The minarets of Cairo are different from the minarets of Constantinople, which were built at a later period. They are elaborate in form and produce a distinctively picturesque quality that characterizes the Orient. The Arab has always had a mania for covering his architecture with patterns. In order to distinguish Arab decorations from other decorations, they are spoken of as Arabesque. The mosque of Sultan Hasan is the grandest of all the mosques of Cairo, but the tomb of Kait Bey is the most exquisite of all the mosques. The dome and minaret of this mosque are exceptionally fine examples of the Arabesque
THE EDITOR ABROAD 573
decorations. Every mosque has its prayer niche on the pillared side, and the ablution fountain in the center which the Mohammedan uses freely before he goes in to pray. In the mosque of el-Azhar is the University of Cairo, the largest Moslem institution in the world. It was built in the tenth century and is exceedingly large, following the usual plan of an open court with covered colonades along the sides. In the covered part, which is ten colonades deep, sit the students, ranging from little children to gray-haired men, all swaying to and. Fro as they strive to commit to memory the words of the Koran, or seek to understand the explanations made by their teachers who sit garbed in flowing robes, with turbans upon their heads. Without a doubt the most attractive modern building in Cairo, and for that matter, most likely in all Egypt, is the great museum. This museum has been very properly characterized "an epitome of ancient Egypt." In it one finds at the present time beautiful alabaster vases that have been taken from King Tuthankhamen's tomb, as well as many other articles of interest. Everywhere one sees the elaborately decorated sarcophagus of the mummy with a mummy inside. Sometimes, these mummies have gold rings upon their fingers. Very early in the visit to the museum one encounters long shelves covered with black cats that at a distance would deceive the spectator and lead him to believe that they had just perched themselves upon the shelves for inspection, were it not for the fact that they are so deathly still. Nearby these shelves of black cats are shelves of dogs, and in other parts of the museum one may see mummies of crocodiles and of the Sacred Bull. It is impossible when looking at the Sacred Bull not to be reminded of the custom that was in the minds of the children of Israel when they fashioned in the desert a golden calf at the time when Moses, their leader, was in communication with the Lord of Hosts. Egypt is an intensely interesting country, not alone because of the great variety of scenes that present themselves on every side, but because it is the pathway of civilization for many centuries. "Truth shall spring forth from the earth." Practically every day something is being extracted from the sands of Egypt, revealing the splendor of other days. In no other Country could the mummies of men and animals have been preserved as in this land where the Nile has been the source of its vegetation, its luxuriant trees and beautiful flowers, but behind which are countless acres of sunburned sand. Diet for the School Child By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education The diet of the school child is the most important single factor for its success in school. From careful studies made by Dr. Emerson Holt and others on the relationship between failure, retardation and special promotion, to height and weight, there is a very marked correlation. From a study made in Washington, D. C., of boys and girls who had had one or more special promotions up to the eighth grade, every one of these pupils weighed a little more than the weight recorded in tables showing the average weight for height. This margin of safety increases resistance, tends to stabilize the nervous system and is probably the result of good food habits, regular meals, adequate sleep, and other indications of living up to the rules of the health game. Where a successful school lunch has been put into operation there is usually a noticeable improvement in the grades made by the children. This is particularly noticeable where the child is on the border line of malnutrition. The extra amount of milk, vegetables and milk dishes usually served in the school lunch are a valuable contributing factor toward turning probable failure into success, both in terms of weight and school progress. The warm dish tends to relieve fatigue, stimulates flow of digestive juices and also makes the box lunch more palatable. Unfortunately the average school lunch available is almost worse than none at all. Highly seasoned meats in terms of hot dogs, candy bars, unbuttered sandwiches, soda pop, and often poor quality pie or ice cream, are not suitable for food for the growing child. Too often, too, the price of school lunch dishes is excessive for their value. It is indeed unfortunate that more Parent Teacher Associations, or other women's organizations, do not sponsor an adequate school lunch. It has been done successfully in several districts in the State. For the past two years, for instance, some of the mothers in Cedar City, anxious to have their children, who had some distance to go to school, enjoy their lunches, have cooperated with the homemaking teacher and worked out the following plans: l These parents have furnished the materials so that at least one nutritious hot dish has been served to their children to supplement the cold lunch brought from home. One of the interesting things about this lunch project is that very little money has been used in exchange for school lunches. When a family kills an animal, meat for roast, boiling, stew or soup is sent to the department after arrangements have been made with the foods DIET FOR THE SCHOOL CHILD 575 teacher. The same organization holds with vegetables, butter and milk. One family who produced a dependable quality of milk delivered a gallon a day which more than paid for the hot lunch dishes served several children during the year. This school lunch prepared by girls in their regular foods classes has become an institution. One of the requirements for the teacher of the present year was that she must be able to handle the school lunch problem. What has been done in this community can without doubt be done in other communities. Another interesting result of this experiment is that there is a general belief that children who have the hot dish are doing better work and are in better physical condition than. They would otherwise be. Iron county, by the way, © is doing some of the best health work being done in the state. They are making concerted, consistent, and determined efforts to have their children free to gain and free to learn. There is much psychology connected with the feeding of the school child, for in the excitement of getting to school on time many high strung, nervous children are too much "on edge" to really enjoy their meals. This is especially true where family meals are not very regular and inclined to be late. Meals should be served on the minute so that children will be trained to feel that there is plenty of time for them to eat their meal, get to school without running and. Still have a little time for play. Permanent physical injury results where the needs of the school child as to meal time are not given careful consideration. Too often mothers allow some of the mechanics of housekeeping to overshadow their responsibility of feeding their school children so that they will be unquestionably healthy and happy. Special care should be exercised over the six-year-old who, when school begins, enters a new world. Going to school for a child of this age is an advent which overshadows past experience. Moreover, the excitement of getting to school is very apt to interfere with the appetite for breakfast. The wise mother will, therefore, quietly give the child to understand that breakfast is quite as important as school, and that unless the child eats fruit, cereal, milk, toast and possibly a little egg or bacon, that he will become too tired before 12 o'clock comes to do good work. A vigorous protest should be entered against the carelessness of some mothers who allow children to run hurriedly to school with only a piece of dry bread or bread and jam, half of which they are apt to throw away as they run. One nutrition worker sums up her regard for this shiftless responsibility by saying: 'Parents who do not see to it that school children have an adequate breakfast, in peace, ought to be required to go without food for a least twenty-four hours." If all of the mothers in Logan and vicinity, who have had the 576 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE opportunity of hearing Dr. McCollum the past two summers, will live up to nutrition requirements set by him of a quart of milk a day, ten drops of cod liver oil twice a week, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, citrus and fresh fruits, they will have the right to expect noticeably a more sturdy and successful group of children than the average. A satisfactory nutrition program backed by enthusiastic public opinion is not of overnight growth. Poor food habits cannot be so easily changed. There must be a gradual conversion to new principles, an interest in new foods or food combinations aroused, and a firm belief that the change in food habits is worth while. Many people have the idea that their children are free from rickets, anemia, and other striking evidences of malnutrition. This is not always the case. There is far too much evidence in every community of malnutrition in nervous, high-strung children, noticeable rachitic changes in bones, and apparent anemia in many little boys and girls of all ages, for anyone to feel self-satisfied with the average child's health. In many cases the health standards of a family or community are too low. Many people believe that living in the country insures good health although this is not always borne out by health clinic records. More parents need to feel a distinct pride in feeding children with the definite aim in view to obtain solid, well shaped teeth, straight bones of good average size, red blooded-and steady nerves. The noon meal, which is generally considered to be the best time to serve dinner where there are children, should always be served on time. Further, it should be a well-balanced menu to meet the needs of the group. Usually this meal should include bread and butter, meat or meat substitute, two vegetables, other than potato, preferably one of the green leaf vegetables, or it may be used in a simple salad, and a simple dessert. Milk should also be used, if there isn't generous use of milk in the vegetables or dessert. Some mothers may think this is impossible. It isn't for the average home as the cost isn't as much more as is usually supposed if careful selection is made in terms of cost. Usually, too, an appreciable saving may be effected if storage facilities for root vegetables make the purchase of these in large amounts possible. Almost anyone can have a box of sand in a basement to keep these vegetables from drying up. A sufficient amount of these vegetables can be cooked at one time for two meals. Keep them in a cool place, and do not add butter or sauce to the unserved portion, or it will have a warmed-over taste when it is served. If all of the housekeepers would only believe that two vegetables and a simple dessert are easier than one vegetable and two desserts or one elaborate dessert there would be less objection to the DIET FOR THE SCHOOL CHILD 577 extra vegetable requirement which is a better means of health insurance. The following short cuts may help those belonging to the "Doubting Thomas Group." Cookies are usually easier for the sweet bit at the end of the meal than cakes. Plain cakes may be given a quick icing effect by sprinkling sugar with a bit of cinnamon in it before the cake is baked. Many housekeepers make a five-cup batch of fondant and pack in pint fruit jars. When cake icing is desired they take some of this, warm slightly, thin with a very little cream and spread on top of the cake. A variety of easy puddings should be in the recipe catalog of every housekeeper. There are almost an endless number of sego, rice, and bread puddings that may be varied by using brown sugar, honey, or carmelizing part of the granulated sugar. For flavoring, add a little ginger with a little vanilla or lemon, or add raisins, cocoanut, a few rolled peanuts, chopped figs or dates; dried peaches or apricots that have been soaked may be added for variety. Puddings composed largely of milk and eggs are also a very valuable part. Of the supper menu. May a plea be made for one hot dish for the supper when the weather is not warm. This is also a satisfactory means of serving part of the vegetable requirement. Frequently the supper of bread and milk and fruit is inadequate without the addition of a cream soup, warmed over vegetable, or a more concentrated dessert than fresh or stewed fruit. The extra enjoyment of the meal and the general feeling of happiness which results are much more worth while. Every family having electric lights should have some electrical or other contrivance whereby a quick hot dish can be prepared without making a fire in the range. Some housekeepers, mindful of their families' welfare, slowly cook rice or cereal in milk during the preparation of the noon meal, and then use the electrical or oil stove for heating it. While this is not an ideal way, proper health standards are worth consideration. Proper feeding of school children is one of the best means of keeping down taxes, because there will be fewer failures and less retardation. In our average sized school district this might easily mean one or more extra teachers who are required to struggle against malnutrition, lassitude and irritability which result when the child is not receiving food right in amounts and kinds. Some may question this, but careful experiments have been carried on to show that a proper kind of school lunch actually pays the school board. If care is exercised over all of the meals, isn't it reasonable to believe that it will not only pay the school district to have intelligent mothers, but won't it also pay the family, community and nation to have well nourished husky youngsters to carry on the work of tomorrow? 578 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Aside from food, the next biggest factors for the health of the school child are sleep and sunshine. Every elementary school child should have eleven hours of sleep. Those in junior high school should have at least ten hours, and high school boys and girls should average nine hours as a minimum requirement. Neither adult nor child can do satisfactory work with an inadequate amount of healthy restful sleep in rooms with windows wide open Unfortunately, many children suffer from too little sleep and as a result have to be almost pulled out of bed to get them awake. This is unfortunate and should be remedied by having more hours of sleep in the earlier part of the evening. As a means of safeguarding health, every child should have opportunity of playing in the sunshine every day. There is some good argument for short sleeves and socks which expose the wrists, elbows and knees of the normal rapidly growing child. Direct sunlight helps to prevent rickets, Sun therapy is becoming more and more important. It is possible that sun baths will be found to prevent and cure many of the diseases from which children and adults suffer, at the present time. Why all the emphasis on more vegetables and milk? The answer is that the newer medicine is prevention rather than cure. The new dietetics also aims to prevent illness in the baby. Obesity, or emaciation in the child or adult, anemia or rickets in children or adults. Everyone should realize that anemia and rickets are decidedly nutritional diseases. Prevention of one or both have been discussed in these articles. No less authority than Dr. McCollum states that if everyone would live up to the rules of positive health that rickets could be stamped out among small children in two years' time. The scars on older children will remain, but some headway could be made. Anemia and rickets are often found together, for both result from inadequate diet. The following accepted height and weight tables recently compiled by Drs. Wood and Baldwin were printed by the American Child Health Association and are worth careful consideration. Every child should be encouraged to have a margin of safety of a few pounds over weight, rather than being content with being underweight. Mothers should know whether or not their children's weight for height and for years is approximately normal: The tables are to be used as follows: Take for example, a 14 year old boy who is 64 inches tall. By following the numbers horizontally opposite the figure 64 it will be found that he should weigh 113 pounds. A 12 year old boy who is 64 inches tall should weigh 109 pounds, and an 18 year old boy should weigh 126 pounds. Age is taken at the nearest birthday; height at the nearest DIET FOR THE SCHOOL CHILD 579 WEIGHT—HEIGHT AGE TABLE FOR BOYS OF SCHOOL AGE
Ages: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19
Height and corresponding weights by age:
3'6": 30, 30, 30, 35 3'7": 31, 31, 31, 36 3'8": 33, 33, 33, 38 3'9": 35, 35, 35, 40, 40 3'10": 37, 37, 37, 42, 42 3'11": 39, 39, 39, 44, 44 4'0": 41, 41, 41, 46, 46 4'1": 43, 43, 43, 48, 48, 48 4'2": 45, 45, 45, 50, 50, 50 4'3": 47, 47, 47, 52, 52, 52, 55 4'4": 49, 49, 49, 54, 54, 54, 57 4'5": 51, 51, 51, 56, 56, 56, 59, 61 4'6": 53, 53, 53, 58, 58, 58, 61, 63, 63 4'7": 55, 55, 55, 60, 60, 60, 63, 65, 65, 68 4'8": 57, 57, 57, 62, 62, 62, 65, 67, 67, 70, 72 4'9": 59, 59, 59, 64, 64, 64, 67, 69, 69, 72, 74, 76 4'10": 61, 61, 61, 66, 66, 66, 69, 71, 71, 74, 76, 78, 80 4'11": 65, 65, 65, 68, 68, 68, 71, 73, 73, 76, 78, 80, 82, 85 5'0": 69, 69, 69, 72, 72, 72, 75, 77, 77, 80, 82, 84, 86, 89, 92 5'1": 75, 75, 75, 78, 78, 78, 81, 83, 83, 86, 88, 90, 92, 95, 98, 101 5'2": 82, 82, 82, 85, 85, 85, 88, 90, 90, 93, 95, 97, 99, 102, 105, 108, 111 5'3": 90, 90, 90, 93, 93, 93, 96, 98, 98, 101, 103, 105, 107, 110, 113, 116, 119, 122 5'4": 100, 100, 100, 103, 103, 103, 106, 108, 108, 111, 113, 115, 117, 120, 123, 126, 129, 132, 135 5'5": 111, 111, 111, 114, 114, 114, 117, 119, 119, 122, 124, 126, 128, 131, 134, 137, 140, 143, 146, 149 5'6": 120, 120, 120, 123, 123, 123, 126, 128, 128, 131, 133, 135, 137, 140, 143, 146, 149, 152, 155, 158 5'7": 129, 129, 129, 132, 132, 132, 135, 137, 137, 140, 142, 144, 146, 149, 152, 155, 158, 161, 164, 167 5'8": 139, 139, 139, 142, 142, 142, 145, 147, 147, 150, 152, 154, 156, 159, 162, 165, 168, 171, 174, 177 5'9": 150, 150, 150, 153, 153, 153, 156, 158, 158, 161, 163, 165, 167, 170, 173, 176, 179, 182, 185, 188 5'10": 162, 162, 162, 165, 165, 165, 168, 170, 170, 173, 175, 177, 179, 182, 185, 188, 191, 194, 197, 200
Age ranges and corresponding measurements: 6—9 YEARS: Height (Medium), Weight (Medium); Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 10—14 YEARS: Height (Medium), Weight (Medium); Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 15—19 YEARS: Height (Medium), Weight (Medium); Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) A child years old at any time between 514 and 6% years. The figures not starred represent exact averages in round numbers. The starred figures represent smoothed or interpolated values. The following percentage of net weight has been added for clothing (shoes, coats, and sweaters are not included): For weights from 35 to 63 lbs —3.5% of net weight is added. For weights 64 lbs. And over—4% of net weight is added. Prepared by Bird T. Baldwin, Ph. D., and Thomas D. Wood, M. D., published by the American Child Health Association, and reprinted by their permission. Is considered 6 580 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WEIGHT—HEIGHT AGE TABLE FOR GIRLS OF SCHOOL AGE
Ages: 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19
Height and corresponding weights by age:
3'5": 29, 29, 29, 29 3'6": 30, 30, 30, 30, 32½ 3'7": 31, 31, 31, 31, 34 3'8": 32, 32, 32, 32, 35½ 3'9": 33, 33, 33, 33, 37 3'10": 34, 34, 34, 34, 38½ 3'11": 35, 35, 35, 35, 40 4'0": 36, 36, 36, 36, 41½, 41½ 4'1": 37, 37, 37, 37, 43, 43 4'2": 38, 38, 38, 38, 44½, 44½ 4'3": 39, 39, 39, 39, 46, 46, 46 4'4": 40, 40, 40, 40, 47½, 47½, 47½, 50 4'5": 41, 41, 41, 41, 49, 49, 49, 52 4'6": 42, 42, 42, 42, 50½, 50½, 50½, 54, 54 4'7": 43, 43, 43, 43, 52, 52, 52, 56, 56, 58 4'8": 44, 44, 44, 44, 53½, 53½, 53½, 58, 58, 60, 62 4'9": 45, 45, 45, 45, 55, 55, 55, 60, 60, 62, 64, 66 4'10": 46, 46, 46, 46, 56½, 56½, 56½, 62, 62, 64, 66, 68, 70 4'11": 47, 47, 47, 47, 58, 58, 58, 64, 64, 66, 68, 70, 72, 75 5'0": 48, 48, 48, 48, 59½, 59½, 59½, 66, 66, 68, 70, 72, 74, 77, 80 5'1": 49, 49, 49, 49, 61, 61, 61, 68, 68, 70, 72, 74, 76, 79, 82, 85 5'2": 50, 50, 50, 50, 62½, 62½, 62½, 70, 70, 72, 74, 76, 78, 81, 84, 87, 90 5'3": 75, 75, -, -, -, -, 74, 74, 76, 78, 80, 82, 85, 88, 91, 94, 97 5'4": 103, -, -, -, -, -, -, 80½, 82½, 84½, 86½, 88½, 90½, 102½, -, -, -, 65 5'5": 119, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, 87, 89, 91, 93, 95, 97, 109, 113, -, -, 66 5'6": 125, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, 95, 97, 99, 101, 103, 115, 119, 123, -, 67 5'7": 133, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, 105, 107, 109, 111, 123, 127, 131, 135, 68 5'8": 142, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, 116, 118, 120, 132, 136, 140, 144, 69 5'9": 152, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, 128, 130, 142, 146, 150, 154, 70 6'0": 163, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, 141, 153, 157, 161, 165, 71 6'1": 175, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, 165, 169, 173, 177, 72 6'2": 188, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, -, 182, 186, 190, 73
Age ranges and corresponding measurements: 5—9 YEARS: Height (Medium) 45, Weight (Medium) 45, Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 47, 49, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62, 64 10—14 YEARS: Height (Medium) 57, Weight (Medium) 59, Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 61, 63, 65, 67, 69, 71, 73, 75, 77, 79 15—19 YEARS: Height (Medium) 83, Weight (Medium) 85, Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 87, 89, 91, 93, 95, 97, 99
The following percentage of net weight has been added for clothing (shoes and sweaters are not included): For weights from 35 to 65 lbs—3% of net weight is added. For weights from 66 to 82 lbs.—2.5% of net weight is added. For weights form 83 Ibs. And over—2% of net weight is added. See also notes on "Weight—Height—Age Table for Boys of School Age." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - -:. - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT: -: - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON -: - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN -: - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynelds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mr. Amy Whipple Evans: Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIER SOCIETY MAGAZINE – Clariss A Smith WILLIAMS: - Alice Louise REYNOLDS: Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop' s Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Editor: Associate Editor - - i Assistant Manager - - Vol. XII; NOVEMBER, 1925 No. 11 Arise and Shine Amid the World's Deep Night One of the Latter-day Saint hymns calls upon us to "Arise and shine in splendor, amid the world's deep night." The words 'world's deep night," are significant, suggesting, as they do, great precision in their selection. In the blaze and dazzle of our 20th century civilization it is difficult to realize how much superstition and spiritual darkness is to be found in our so-called up-to-date world. After spending a year abroad amid sights and sounds that for the most part please, we have often been greatly pained and profoundly shocked at the depth of superstition that tells of the world's deep night. For instance, there is a city in Germany that claims to be in possession of the bones of the three magi. If one visits that city some one is pretty sure to point to a certain gate, forming part of the old walls of the city, and in all solemnity say that the bones of the three magi were brought through that gate into the city. The visitor may see a silver box resembling in shape the Noah's Arks children play with, made of solid silver and very elaborately decorated with statues of saints. This most extraordinary box was made in the 12th century for the express purpose of forming a fitting receptacle for the bones of the magi. That box is being exhibited at a summer Exposition in Europe. It is marvelous as a specimen of 12th century art, but terrible as an example of religious belief. To be sure, none of the readers of the Magazine will believe
582 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
for an instance that this German city ever had the bones of the magi, the absurdity of the whole thing will dawn upon any one who gives it a moment's thought, yet this is only one of the instances that might be cited of claims that can have no foundation in truth, of superstitions that bind the minds and hearts of men, and keep them from finding the Lord. Hence the gratitude that should fill the heart of every Latter-day Saint, that we have been taken away from this superstition and that our lot has been cast among the virgin hills and blue skies, and above all else that the gospel has been brought to us and that through it we have been delivered from the bondage of ignorance. This editorial will reach our readers soon after the October conference. At that conference we heard as we have heard in many conferences of the past, clear expositions of the truth as revealed through our latter-day prophets. Against the background of superstition and gross ignorance that may be found in some parts of the world, the latter-day gospel is as a sunburst, giving joy to all who are made partakers of it. Happy the individual and happy the people who are convinced of its truth. Surely the splendor and the glory of the Lord is descended upon them.
Armistice Day
Seven years will have elapsed, on November 11, since the plenipotentiaries of the German nation met General Foch in the beautiful forest of Compeigne and signed the Armistice that brought to a termination active hostilities in Europe. The memory of the horrors of the war seems to be so deeply implanted in the minds of the present generation that Armistice Day appears to be the most solemn day in all the year in European nations. It is not to be wondered at, for there in the open country near the fort at Verdun, four hundred thousand men fell whose bodies are unidentified, and whose bones have been gathered together and placed in a temporary ossuary. Behind the temporary building is a permanent building that is being erected by interested contributors from all over the world to be the receptacle for the bones of the men who died on the field of battle. In this building are various altars—altars where the Roman Catholic prays according to his convictions, and altars where those of Protestant persuasions can offer their devotions in accord with their idea of acceptable worship. It is, to put it in a blunt and crude way, a place of a jumble of bones. Everybody knows that in the Roman Catholic division they likely have many bones of Protestants, and in the Protestant division there are bones of many
EDITORIAL 583
Roman Catholics. These bones have been placed in boxes somewhat resembling a coffin in shape, but very much smaller in size. They are covered with a white cloth and flowers, and wreaths are constantly placed upon them by relatives and visitors who go there. At no great distance from the ossuary is a section where a group of soldiers died standing, with bayonets in hand. A shellburst, buried them just as they stood. The bayonets extend above the ground and a monument has been built around, with a canopy overhead to offer protection to the steel from inclement weather. It is a ghastly sight—one that stirs to the very depth— presenting a horrible picture of some of the terrible realities of the last war. There is no honor that can be paid these men that they have not merited through their sacrifice, but all the honor that we can pay them through laurel wreaths and flowers and the devotion of our lips and hearts is of little use unless we set to work to find the remedy for this most terrible of curses that has beset civilization in all periods of the world and which looms up in particular horror at this present time.
Home Again
After one year we are again back in the office, breathing the pure air of our mountain home. Frequently we met tourists on our travels who had visited the West. At such meetings we were pleased to note that they always had complimentary things to say about it. In Ireland on a stroll leading to the Killarney Lakes, there were three persons in the group, one from New York, one from Indiana and one from Ohio who had visited Utah, each in turn remarked upon the cleanliness of Salt Lake City. We are happy once more to greet the Magazine readers from our office in the Bishop's Building. During our sojourn we have communicated with you from France, Italy, Egypt, Syria, Switzerland, England, Ireland and Wales, so that word has reached you from many lands and from many climes. Asia, Africa and Europe are interesting, and it is a great privilege to visit places of such profound concern in the history and development of our world civilization, but it is equally gratifying at the end of such a sojourn, to have a home to come to such as we have in the valleys of the mountains. We certainly feel to exclaim, "God bless our mountain home so dear," with the writer of our hymn. We shall continue the travel articles until we have covered the countries visited, changing the caption to suit the circumstances. However, the article appearing in this issue of the Magazine will retain the old caption as it was written abroad.
584 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Condolence
Our sympathy is extended, at this time, to Mrs. Elsie Chamberlain Carroll whose gifted and devoted husband passed on, September 30, 1925. Mrs. Carroll is, as President Harris, of the Brigham Young University, asserted at the funeral services of her husband, one of the best writers the State of Utah has produced. She has been a constant contributor to the Relief Society Magazine and in this her hour of sore trial the members of the General Board extend heartfelt sympathy to her, In the midst of her sorrow, she must have great satisfaction in the knowledge that she was an inspiration to her husband, and that through his skill, he was enabled to relieve pain and bring comfort and cheer to those who suffered and were in distress. We pray that the choice blessings of our heavenly Father may rest upon her and her son and daughter, and that she may realize in full measure the promises made by our heavenly Father to those who are bereft.
My Prayer
Juanita Pulsipher
Help me, oh, Lord, to be Grateful for life in its beautiful wholeness; Help me to see That the valleys of gloom, the shades somber and dark, The sorrow, the anguish, that tears at the heart, The pain of remorse, the sharp pangs of grief, Are but shadows that throw into bolder relief Its high lights: The joy of achievement, The untold contentment Of hard, honest work, of victories won, The satisfaction of services willingly done, The happiness brought by love's rosy glow, Or support of a friend, understanding and true. Help me to say That, blended, they make a harmony sweet; A picture, not perfect, but grandly complete.
Golden-Rod
By Elsie Talmage Brandley.
Gwen Keridan's color scheme—the one with which the fairies had endowed her at the christening—fortunately was that delectable combination of gold and sapphire, white and rose, which is the despair of every other girl; and she had the red mystery for lips that all beauty specialists search in boxes for. It was especially nice of the fairies to have picked Gwen for their gifts to adorn, as her extremely hard-worked salary, as stenographer at the offices of Bryce and Weldon, interior decorators, would never have consented to stretch itself far enough to pay for the mixtures and marcels which the other girls made use of, to show Mother Nature that she hadn't hurt their feelings so much after all in forgetting to touch them up in the days when she had them in her care. Gwen's salary considered itself very obliging to pay for all it did—rent of a tiny flat, food for Gwen and the crippled sister, and for clothes for both, besides tooth-paste, stamps, and the papers and magazines which Marcia needed so desperately to keep her from brooding over her condition. And Gwen never ceased being grateful to the responsible party, though she was a bit hazy as to its identity, for her blessings in the matter of complexion, natural waves, and the slim, graceful form which had the magic power of making her clothes and hats look, the minute she put them on, as if they had cost at least four times what they really had, and might even have been tailored expressly for her. This very satisfactory and comforting state of affairs gave Gwen an expression of radiant, care-free, girlish, happiness; and Marcia, lying flat on her back all day long, often stopped reading just to shut her eyes and see before her that merry, beloved little face, and hear in her mind's ear the ripple of low, sweet laughter that always seemed to be throbbing in Gwen's throat, waiting for release. Sometimes Marcia would say her prayers in the middle of the day, so that she could say, "Thank you. Lord, for Gwen's loveliness and laughter,' and she felt sure that it didn't sound flippant in the realms above. Marcia had so much time to think that she regarded it as a special dispensation of Heaven that she had so perfect a thing as Gwen to think about. Before the accident. Which had resulted in the injury to her spine, and the consequent complete helplessness, she had considered Gwen an adorable child who should never know anything but careful loving, and a chance to study all
586 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the good and beautiful things in the world. She had been given the sacred charge of raising the little sister, and she would fulfil it gloriously. She would work hard and well, that the life-insurance money, left them at the death of their father, need not be touched until Gwen was ready for college. Then had come the dreadful accident; and every plan and hope had been shattered. The life-insurance money paid for the doctor, gave Gwen a short business course, and left enough in the bank to keep them from starving in case Gwen took sick or lost her job. Ever since then the position of the two was reversed. Gwen had been given Marcia's old position, and was financier, manager, cook, housemaid, and general comforter and joy-dispenser. Marcia's little world consisted of that part of the little home within her range of vision from the couch in the corner of it—and Gwen. She read things, of course, and always had interesting things to talk to Gwen about during the enchanting evenings when just the two of them were there together, but it was all vicarious experiences of book and story people, scientific experiments of unknown men, culinary achievements of unknown women. It seemed to her that Gwen's most ordinary word was more vital than anything in any book, for she lived in a world of real, live people. Who spoke aloud, wore actual clothes, and walked along cement sidewalks. Marcia lived for those conversations. "Sis," Gwen would say, "Marg West came into the office this morning and she had on a sleeveless dress, and gloves only to her wrists! Can you picture it? When I looked up and saw the endless length of freckled arm, I was utterly terrified!" or "Marcia, honey, you could never guess what we're having for supper, so don't try! I've decided that the potato is to lowly a food for us of the aristocracy, so shrimp salad shall be our portion from now on!" and Marcia, observing that Gwen left the house twenty minutes earlier than usual each morning of the following week, knew that she was walking to work, to save the extra dimes that the salad had cost, but she said not a word to show that she knew. That would have spoiled the whole thing, for Gwen loved planning little surprises. Sometimes they were not so little, either, but she liked to suppose that Marcia had no idea of them. Of course, they were as transparent as plate glass, and Marcia adored her for them. The phonograph had been the biggest of all. It had taken the money for her winter coat, and a dollar a week all winter beside. The breezy assertion that the old coat was in better style than when it was new. Tossed off so lightly, might have convinced a less understanding person, but Marcia knew that many a day during the coldest weather there was an unnatural bulge to Gwen's
GOLDEN-ROD 587
trim appearance, denoting a sweater under her coat. And every time the slightly rasping notes of the records fell upon her ear Marcia thought of the bulgy sweater, and tears of something like worship filled her eyes, and frequently dripped down so plentifully that she had to turn her pillow over. It was an evening in June that Gwen spoke the word her sister had half dreaded for some time. It came with studied casualness. "Marcia, do you remember my telling you last winter that Mr. Weldon's son had come into the office? He is to be taken into the firm, if he makes good, 'L. J.' his father calls him, so we all do the same, to save confusion. Well, I'm to be his private secretary when he needs me, and have a desk in a little room with the two other secretaries, instead of the outer office, and my salary is raised fifteen a month, and I love my work with him! Isn't it nice?" "Gwennie, it's gorgeous!" Nobody could have found anything lacking in the quality of Marcia's vocal enthusiasm, but her heart had dropped several degrees. The epoch-making 'fifteen a month' had been mentioned incidentally and the italics put upon the fact of loving to work with him. It was sure to come some day, that love that would crown the life of one girl and leave the other's desolate, but the fear that this might be the beginning, turned her cold and a little sick. Though not a breath of her dread tarnished the golden sincerity of her voice, as she repeated the formula. "Gwen, it's utterly gorgeous!" And in the following month, when no further mention was made of 'L. J.' Marcia's fear was quieted. Then, suddenly, "Marcia dear, would you mind much if 'L. J.' came here some evening to talk things over with us? (Marcia loved her for the 'us.) He is doing a couple of houses all by himself, and he has an idea that we can help out with the question of window-drapes. I've made a suggestion or two he seemed to like, and have told him how you are always reading up on such things, so he is anxious for a little help. You see, these are the houses to decide his fate. If they are right, he's to be taken into partnership, so you can't blame him for being worried, can you?" No, Marcia couldn't, and she'd enjoy having him come some time, she was sure. "I've told him to come on Friday." "All right, that's fine. Sometimes I've fairly ached to have a finger in a business pie again. When I was with Bryce and Weldon half my waking hours were spent in planning colors and curtains for their houses, though I'll have to admit that they
588 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
didn't often use my ideas. Bring him along." and Marcia resolved that she would bite her tongue off before it should ever utter a syllable that might tell of the chill in her heart. She must always pretend that she enjoyed it completely, looked forward to the times when "L. J." would come with his sample of chintz and velour, and his sketchbook. It was a chance to repay to Gwen a part of the debt she owed for these years of comraderie and laughter. In due time "L. J." was brought along, and the evening really was not bad at all. There was a great deal of fun batted. Back and forth, for young Weldon proved to be that boyish, poised, simple clever sort of American who puts everyone at ease immediately, by being so completely there himself. Marcia was included in every word that was spoken, and felt herself being really interesting to the young aspirant for a place in the firm. She was thankful not to be conscious of the sense of her own superfluousness which she had feared. Her ideas on home decorating were good, and, thanks to her reading-habit, very up-to-date and helpful. "L. J." was amazed at the amount of information she had at her command, and said so several times. Gwen served lemonade and cookies of her own making, of which their guest partook so freely that they feared he might be ill, but he seemed to have no such qualms, and went on eating. "By George," he declared, with vim, "I've not tasted such cookies since I used to loot Grandmother Weldon's cookie jar! Where do you find 'em, I'd like to know?" "Make them, kind sir," replied Gwen demurely, and found herself coloring foolishly at the look he shot at her. Marcia saw that look, too, and while she knew it to be one of admiring, friendly interest, she wanted men to have for Gwen, it shut her out, imperceptibly. The next time he came, it was with an armful of gleaming Golden-rod. Gwen was ecstatic. "Marcia, look! Golden-rod! It's just like we used to find up on Tompie's Trail before it was out anywhere else, and after it had quit blooming farther down in the valley. It makes me think my little-girl days are back again. It's—Golden-rod!" "L. J." appeared well-pleased with the reception accorded his humble offering. "I'd an idea you might like it, Gwen. You make me think of Golden-rod somehow, you know." That was all, but it left an unmistakable impression in the air that he meant a great deal more than was in those few words. Interior decorating was only one of a number of subjects which came in for a share of attention during the rest of that summer. They talked of everything—gardening, radio, fashions,
GOLDEN-ROD 589
tennis, poultry-raising, and politics; but the greatest of these was cooking—Gwen's cooking. "L. J." went into raptures over her chocolate cake, and transports over the lemon pies she concocted. "It's unbelievable that a girl like you can cook," he said once. "I have always divided girls into two classes—good-lookers, and good-cookers—and foolishly imagined that never the twain shall meet. But here we have the proven combination! Whew!" His obviously complimentary remarks always just missed being too personal, but there was an approving quality in his smile, a significance underlying his Gwenward glances that carried over the message of his growing interest; the fact that it did get over was attested by the tender, womanly sweetness which gradually came to take the place of the rollicking merriment Gwen had displayed toward Marcia—Marcia who needed so much love now that she was missing all of the glory life was pouring out upon the younger girl with such unstinted generosity. The summer had passed in a blaze of heat and happiness, and September was well along with its gift of heavenly coolness before Gwen could bring herself to speak of the new thing in her heart. Then one evening in the soft twilight she slipped down onto the floor beside Marcia's couch. "I can't fool myself any longer, Sis," she said simply. "I'm utterly and completely in love! And I believe he cares for me, too, though he hasn't told me so, formally. His houses aren't done yet, and I imagine he's waiting until he knows whether or not he's to be a member of the firm, before he declares himself. Do you think I'm mistaken about his caring, Marcia?" "No, Gwen, honey. You're right; I'm sure as if he had broadcasted it from L. J. W. It's dear of him to want to be quite sure of what he is asking you to share. And it will make me very happy to see you in the care of a man like him," Marcia replied with conviction. "Oh, Marcia!" and Gwen was on her knees with both arms tight around the other, and the fulness of her glad heart pouring out in her voice. But the very next day brought an end to her dreaming. She was glancing through the morning paper while waiting for the eggs to boil, and read that Mr. And Mrs. Alexander Sauls announced the engagement of their daughter, Jane, to Mr. Lawrence John Weldon, the marriage to take place in October, after Miss Saul's return from Europe. It was an ordinary enough bit of news to most people, but to one girl standing over the gas range, it was world-destroying. To her torture-numbered heart she advanced the feverish argument that it was her own fault, 'I should not have let my own feelings
590 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
interpret his friendship into something different! He has never said a word which a soon-to-be-married man might not properly say to any girl. He has been the soul of honor, and I've been nothing but a sentimental! Little simpleton, and it is up to me to forget the whole thing as soon as possible!' and she took that page of the paper and stuffed it into the waste-basket, that Marcia need not know. She would sympathize, and that would be the last straw. A decided pallor, and hard-boiled eggs were the only signs of anything amiss; the world-old excuse of a little headache, which will always cover a multitude of heart-aches, sufficed to quiet the question of Marcia's lips, and somehow the girl found herself at her old desk, with the world giving every indication of a firm intention to continue as usual. Gwen made a tremendous effort to be the same friendly, business-like secretary "L. J." had known, and succeeded surprisingly well, considering everything. He little dreamed how deadeningly life stretched out ahead of her that day. But the day was still holding earthquakes for Gwen. At home she found Marcia thrilled to the point of incoherence. Before she was well inside the room Marcia had hurled at her the bomb of her own felicitation. "Gwen, Doctor Foster and his wife have been here, and they are going to Vienna to study spinal diseases, and they are going to take me with them, for he thinks my back can be cured! Think, Gwennie, cured!" "Oh, Marcia, it's too wonderful to believe all at once! You'll come home to me all strong and well again? It's the answer to all our prayers, dear! It's the reason we could be brave in the face of everything you've had to bear." "But I won't go, Gwen, unless I know that everything is to be as we hope with you and 'L. J.' I couldn't leave you alone for three years, even to get my back made well," Marcia continued in a tone of finality, and Gwen knew without thinking it all out that their old game of "make-believe" would have to defend its right to existence now—tomorrow. "I love you, Marcia," she said. That night she did not sleep a wink; the morning after, she faced the hardest task of her life, for Marcia's sake. In answer to her almost inaudible tap on his door, "L. J.," in his cheery morning voice bade the tapper enter. She did, and walking straight up to him, plunged into the thick of it. "'L. J.', please don't interrupt me, or I'll never get up courage to go on. It's dreadful to ask the thing I'm going to ask of you, but it's to make Marcia go to Europe and have her back treated properly, so I must. You see she has a most mistaken idea that you and I care for each other in a serious way, and she won't
GOLDEN-ROD 591
leave me unless she's sure that I'll be taken care of—be left in good hands, you know—and she thinks they should be your hands. Of course, | know of your engagement, but Marcia doesn't, so would you mind pretending, just for a week that you'd like to marry me, so that Marcia can go in peace? As soon as she leaves, I'll jilt you—before the boat is out of sight—and not a soul will be harmed. Will you do it—could you?" The excitement had made of her eyes and cheeks a jumble of stars and roses. An inscrutable, masculine Mona Lisa smile came upon the face of "L. J." "Yes, I will, if you'll ask me to supper tonight, and have hot biscuits and honey!" "It's a bargain, then," and Gwen's cold little fist was closed for an instant in the man's big warm one. "At six-thirty, then," and neither one referred to the matter again all day. "L. J." was disconcertingly prompt. It was six-twenty-four when he sniffingly entered the door. "Biscuits ready?" he called boyishly. "I went without my lunch so I'd have an excuse to eat all I craved. They smell about right!" "Five more minutes," Gwen's voice from the kitchen sounded as light as the biscuits, but her heart was as heavy as the oven door. It was impossible to catch what was being said between Marcia and "L. J.", but Gwen feared the worst, and the sight of her sister's shining face confirmed her fears. "Fate is on our side, Gwennie, and I can't even wait to let "L. J." tell you about it himself. He wants you to marry him as soon as you can be ready—he asked if I thought you cared at all for him—imagine!" Gwen ran back into the kitchen to hide her scarlet face, and filled a pitcher with water to make them think it was water she went for. But there was already one pitcher on the table, so it really made her embarrassment more emphatic, and they all laughed. She wondered if she could possibly keep the tears back until "L. J." had gone, and if the ghastly hours would ever drag by. They did at length, and dropping into her bed she slept from sheer weariness. Then morning drifted into her consciousness like a shroud. At the office "L. J." very considerately avoided her until well along toward afternoon, when came a summons from his office. "There's a particular shade of yellow I'm thinking of putting in a house I'm doing, Gwen, and if you don't mind I'd like you to go with me and see what you think of it." Wordlessly she complied, and soon they were speeding in
592 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
his luxurious gray car along a road so full of happy memories that she could scarcely bear it today, in her misery. "Don't take me this way, please, 'L. J.'! It's Tompie's Trail, where the Golden-rod used to grow, and I'd rather go another way, if you don't mind. Unheeding, unanswering, he spun along to a point in the trail where Golden-rod flung its feathery beauty abroad in prodigal abundance. Stopping the car, the man climbed out, and gathered a great clump of it to thrust into Gwen's arms. Then he looked straight into her eyes. "Gwen, please don't interrupt me until I've finished, or I'll never get courage to go on! I just want you to know that I'm not engaged—that's my Uncle, Lawrence-John Weldon, and I'm not even named after him! And Jane Alexander is forty if she's a day. I've cared for you a lot, Gwen, but was so afraid that you regarded me as only a rather wearisome person who tried to inflict business on you after business hours, that I haven't scraped up the crust to ask you what you thought of me. Then last night, Marcia said that you had told her you 'did see a little something to like in me. Gwen, is it true? Do you honestly think you could care enough to marry me? Will you, dear? I love you.' There was blue mist in her eyes, and a rainbow in her smile. "Why, I don't even know your name, but whatever it is, I'll call you by it,' cause I'm so frightfully glad that it isn't Lawrence John." "It's Leander Joseph! Will you marry me, Gwen—tomorrow?" "Oh, Leander Joseph, I will, tomorrow, if you'll let me have Golden-rod for my bridal bouquet!"
Endurance
Third poem to receive honorable mention in the Eliza R. Snow. Memorial Contest.
By Josie E. Childs
I labored up a rugged steep, Endurance for my guide; My burden more than mine alone, But she kept by my side To urge me, when I fain would stop To rest, with words of cheer— To reach the summit of the hill That seemed to her so near.
ENDURANCE 593
Weary and footsore, on I went, Faltering as I stepped, The load upon my back so great, In agony I wept. Why should I struggle with this load? Was not my own enough? Why not turn back and try to find A path less steep and rough?
'Twas then Endurance kindly spoke, In words so soft and low, "Dear, you will find great obstacles Which ever way you go. It was intended from the first. Your pathway should be rough, Till God himself was satisfied And gently said, 'Enough.'
"The obstacles now in your path Will swiftly pass away, If dauntlessly you look ahead And watch as well as pray. Then keep right on, do not turn back No matter what the cost; You must be valiant to the end Or everything is lost,
"And what you do to aid mankind, And ease their load of care, Will bring to you great happiness— Their pleasures you shall share. The burden which you felt so great, Each step will lighter be And in the end bring rich reward Throughout eternity."
I thought, then, it is not so hard This rugged steep to climb, If through experience I obtain These blessings so sublime. I wished no longer to turn back, But, with undaunted will, I and Endurance safely reached The summit of the hill.
Of Interest to Women
Conducted by Lalene H. Hart
Which is better, squash or pumpkin for making pies?
Since colonial days the pumpkin pie has been a favorite and popular one, especially at this time of year. The best ones, however, are made of squash. It has a more delicate texture and sweeter flavor. It requires less sugar, and since it is not so watery as pumpkin, more milk need be used. There is a difference in squash, too. The dry, mealy or fluffy type when cooked is best.
Do not leave a metal spoon in the pan if you want the contents to boil quickly. The spoon is a good conductor of heat and much is carried off, hence the delay in cooking.
When plants have to be left a long time without water, try this method. Put as many bricks in a tub as there are plants to be watered. Pour enough water in the tub to barely cover the brick. Stand a flower pot on each brick. The latter being porous absorbs the moisture and sufficient water is carried to the plant to keep it fresh.
Before putting new oilcloth on the table, paste a square of heavy muslin on the inside of the cloth where the corners of the table come. This lengthens the wearing qualities.
If, when traveling, you are required to carry bottles of medicine or liquid of any kind, dip the tops in melted paraffine wax to avoid danger of leakage.
To shrink woolen yarn before it is knitted, or crocheted into scarfs, sweaters, etc., wrap it in a cloth and place in a steamer, or put into a hammock placed in the wash boiler, for several hours. Keep the water boiling. Shake out and dry in the wind. If put into too hot a sunshine the white wool is apt to turn brown and be streaked. This method is a good way to treat yarn that has been used once and raveled out. It can be used again and will be as fluffy as new yarn.
In homes where the year's supply of flour is purchased at one time, a convenient and sanitary way of storing it is to use a large galvanized iron, or any other strong mouse-proof metal bin. Place in the attic or any other convenient place so that a spout no smaller than eight inches in diameter coming from the center of the oval bottom of the bin, will connect with the kitchen in the most convenient place for obtaining the flour. It is best in an enclosed side-cupboard with space allowed under the spout to admit a container for receiving the flour. Care must be taken that the receiving door, seams, and the stop in spout, are substantial and close-fitting — Mrs. C. N. H., Malta, Idaho.
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 595
When the field corn has ripened, is the time to make hominy. To make lye hominy dissolve one teaspoon red seal lye in one quart of boiling water. Put this in an enamel kettle, add the corn from two large ears, cook for thirty minutes or until the hulls will slip off easily when pressed between the fingers. When all the hulls are loosened, take from the stove, add cold water and stir. Pour off the water, repeat several times, then take a wire potato-masher and churn it, adding and pouring off water frequently until the corn is clean. Cover with water, heat to boiling point and drain. Repeat several times until you are sure all the lye is washed off. Add more water and cook until tender, add salt when the corn is nearly done. Then bottle and seal. It may be cooked in a pressure cooker, which will insure it keeping perfectly. Mrs. A. H., Blanding, Utah.
To prepare mustard which resembles the commercial product use the following: 1 tbsp. Flour. 3 tbsp. Mustard. 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Turmeric. Mix these ingredients and add one egg, beat until smooth, mix thoroughly with 1 cup of vinegar diluted with water and sugar to suit taste. Boil until thick stirring constantly to avoid lumps. Pour into glass jars while hot and seal. It keeps indefinitely —Mrs. O. H., Spanish Fork, Utah.
Very attractive and economical holders for ironed doilies and centerpieces can be made by using cartons or any stiff. Cardboard. Cut in pieces the size and shape of the doilies, then with library paste, paste white paper or cloth on the inside and figured or plain colored paper or cretonne on the outside. Punch holes on each side and tie two together with ribbon. These will lay perfectly flat in a drawer and will keep the doilies from being wrinkled or soiled—Mrs. E. B. S., St. Thomas, Nevada.
A few drops of iodine applied to a bee or insect sting will give almost instant relief and will prevent the affected part from swelling if used at once. Do not bind after application. Mrs. L. A., Logan, Utah.
I have found this preparation for cleaning wall paper to be equally as good as the commercial product and is much cheaper. Use one quart of flour and one tablespoon of alum. Mix together in cold water until a little thicker than pancake batter. Cook it, stirring all the time, until it becomes
596 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
so thick that you can not stir it any more, then mix in either of the following you may have: cornmeal, germ-made or bran, until the dough does not stick to your fingers. Rub the paper lightly with this and it will look fresh and new. This will not remove fly specks. Some of the market preparations will not do this either—Mrs. E. S. J., Mapleton, Utah.
The springs of an old window shade make good substitute springs for a screen door. They may also be used for the baby's swing and the bird's cage. The rollers of the discarded shade may be covered and used for rolling large centerpieces and doilies to keep them from being soiled.— Mrs. O. J. H., Ogden, Utah.
When children are going to school there are sometimes many stains of ink on their clothing. I find this very helpful in removing them. Just place the part that is stained in a small vessel of boiling water to which has been added a heaping teaspoon of common baking soda and let stand until water is quite cool. If ink is not all removed repeat the same treatment and then wash in usual way.— Mrs. P. N. P., Winter Quarters, Utah.
When the first cold or stormy weather comes is the time to prevent colds, especially with children. In nine cases out of ten a cold can be prevented by gargling the throat and spraying the nostrils with a solution of boric acid. I tried this simple remedy in my home last winter and the entire family were practically free from colds. If there is no nasal spray in the home snuffing the solution up the nose thoroughly is just as effective. Salt water, though not quite so good, may be used in place of the boric acid.— Mrs. G. W. Al., Logan, Utah.
Your Flag and My Flag,
Your flag and my flag. Oh! How it flies today, O'er your land and my land, and half a world away. Rose red and blood red, its stripes forever gleam, Snow white and soul white, our good forefathers dream. Sky blue and true blue, its stars forever bright, A glorious guidon of the day, a shelter through the night.
Your flag and my flag, oh! How much it holds Your land and my land secure within its folds. Your heart and my heart beat quicker at the sight; Sun kissed and wind tossed, the red, the blue, the white. The one flag, the great flag, the flag for me and you, Glorified all else beside, the red, the white, the blue.
—Nesbit.
Keep a Health Budget
James H. Wallis, Executive Secretary Utah Public Health Association.
There is no question but that the Federal budget works. We see and hear favorable comments about its efficiency published or spoken nearly every day. There is no question but that a health budget works, also. In keeping the health budget a man or woman is putting by a nest egg for the rainy day without which any money budget, however carefully followed, will be useless. For what does it matter if, after years of careful planning to live economically and successfully, a person's health fails? All the riches of Croesus in the later years of life are of no use unless one has health to enjoy their benefits. For after all, health is at the basis of all enjoyment of life. As you portion out your yearly income, devoting so much money to housing, so much to food—to clothing—to charity, to amusement, so should you portion out your health budget. A happy comfortable home for oneself (and, if fortunate, for one's family) is the goal toward which everyone primarily is working. And to keep this home comfortable and in excellent condition, repairs and improvements are constantly demanding their share of the money budget. "In planning the health budget you will center everything about the body home—after all, everyone's real home. First you must know just what sort of a home your body is. Can it give the proper amount of service? Can it compete with other homes about it? Or do its boards squeak, its windows rattle, does its roof leak or are its ceilings cracked and its attic untidy with the accumulation of years of neglect? The best way to find out its condition is to have a thorough overhauling of your body by a good physician. If he finds any boards that are rickety, such as a weak heart, a poor liver, deranged kidneys, bad tonsils, or teeth, or eyes, you can take care of them before real trouble occurs. Then as you allow so much of the money budget for lighting, heat and fuel so must you put thought (for the health budget requires thought rather than money) into planning the fuel for the body. Food is the fuel that keeps it running. Eat the right foods as conscientiously as you buy the best wood or coal. Plenty of leafy vegetables; more meat, if you are doing hard, physical labor, than if you have work that keeps you confined to a desk; fruit to keep the digestive apparatus functioning properly; milk; bran or wholewheat breads; well-cooked cereals and enough sweets to add variety but not too much, to make you flabby. Fresh air is a big part of the health budget. That is 598 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE indirectly associated with practically every other item. Fresh air day and night helps to keep every part of the body working well. It is a cleanser, a purifier, and without it one's home would. Become as dusty and musty as the old-time unopened "guest chamber." Not only the lungs need the fresh air but every part of the body responds to this tonic and will give better service. Fresh air is a sickness preventive and is cheaper than any other medicine. Especially at night in the bedrooms should windows be opened wide to allow the outdoor air ito do its work. Rest is also most essential. Just as we know we must oil our lawn mowers, put grease in our motor's oilcups, so must we keep lubricating our systems. Everybody needs rest to keep his body engine running. Edison, who claims he can live on but a few hours' sleep at night, often rests on a couch at intervals during the day. When there has been a strain, either mental or physical, the body needs more rest. Try going to bed earlier when the day's toil has seemed particularly trying. Mothers, go to bed earlier when the children or housework have given you a difficult day. The next day's efficiency will be doubled. Exercise should be in the health budget. Exercise keeps every muscle in good working order, and, if only a mile walk a day is possible, that is better than nothing. "The more exercise in the sunshine and fresh air the better will be the physical service rendered in later years. Play is also necessary, for this is stimulating when taken at the proper time and is of the right kind. Play, moreover, is mental relaxation. Anything that is of mental benefit is pretty sure to be of physical help, too, for a happy, contented mind can often buoy up a tired out body. These are a few of the main items in the health budget. They will practically guarantee happiness for later years and for that reason, if for no other, they are closely linked with the money budget. As one works toward a goal in money so can one work toward a goal in health. Prevention is far better than cure, just as a nest egg is better than poverty. The National Tuberculosis Association, and its affiliated organization, the Utah Public Health Association, believe that prevention of tuberculosis through the education of men, women and children has been a great cause for more than cutting in half the death rate from this disease during the past twenty years. Their work is financed by the annual sale of tuberculosis Christmas seals. They have no other revenue. You can help them in December by buying Christmas seals. You can help them all through the year by keeping a Health Budget. When you buy seals, be sure they are the tuberculosis seal. The amount Utah has been called on to raise is $45,000. Dr. John A. Widtsoe has again very generously consented to take charge of the Christmas Seal Sale this year. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Swiss and German Mission. The following cordial letter of appreciation and greeting was recently received. By President Clarissa S. Williams from Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje, president of the Relief Societies of the Swiss-German mission: "I wish herewith, in the name of the members of the Relief Societies of the Swiss and German mission, to express our gratitude for the friendly greetings from you conveyed to us by Miss Alice L. Reynolds, during her visit to our mission. It was indeed a great joy to us, dear Sister Williams, to know that you think of your far-away sisters; and we wish to assure you that we are striving as best we can to contribute to the success of our great organization, the direction of which rests in your worthy hands. "It is a great pleasure for us to be able to tell you that the women of this mission recognize your blessed endeavors, as General President of the Church Relief Societies, and we trust that your health shall permit you to stand at the head of this organization for many years to come. "We send you simultaneously, with sincerest wishes that your endeavors may continue to be crowned with success, the most devoted greetings of all the women of this mission as your faithful co-laborers in the work of the Lord. "The Relief Society Presidencies in the branches of the Swiss and German Mission in the conferences of Basel, Bern, Zurich, Berlin, Breslau, Chemnitz, Dresden, Frankfurt, Hannover, Hamburg, Koln, Konigsberg, Leipsig, Stettin, Stuttgart, Vienna, (Signed) Margaret Hoyer." Granite Stake. The Granite stake Relief Society held an elaborate and most successful carnival in each of the nine wards of the stake, simultaneously, on the fifth Tuesday in September, at the regular meeting hour. The special object of the carnival was: to honor the mothers of the stake; to pay a tribute to motherhood: to create an interest among the young mothers in the Relief Society lesson work which is designed to be especially helpful to young mothers in rearing their children, to stimulate interest generally throughout the stake, and to start out the year's work with enthusiasm. 600 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE All mothers of each ward were invited to participate, in full, in the carnival, regardless of creed, their names and addresses being furnished by the visiting teachers. An excellent outlined program with copy of short drama, and suggestions, was sent to the wards several weeks before time for the carnival, in order that there might be adequate preparation. The program and some of the suggestions follow: MOTHER'S CARNIVAL (To be held in each ward in Granite Stake, September 29, 1925) (Suggestive Program) 2:00 p. M.—Formal reception with ward presidency and visiting General and Stake officers in receiving line. Soft lullaby music. 2:30 p. M.—Congregational Hymn, "Count Your Blessings." Prayer. Lullaby Music Short Drama, "Cornelia." Lullaby Music. Story by ward Literary Class Leader. Music or Dance Number. Few remarks on glory of Motherhood and why it should be honored; and announcement of the year's program of Relief Society Work, by Ward Relief Society President. Presentation of special gifts or prizes by M. I. A. Girls if possible to:. (a) Youngest Mother present. (b) Oldest Mother present. (c) Mother of most sons. (d) Mother of most daughters. - (e) Mothers of twins. (f{) Mothers of triplets. (g) Stake prize for longest membership in Relief Society of any mother present; second, and third prizes for those who have belonged next longest times. Presentation of gifts to all other mothers present. Grand March of the Mothers in two's, led by those who have borne the most children, followed by those who have borne the next number, and so on.; Light refreshments served, cafeteria style. Doxology. Benediction. MOTHER'S CARNIVAL (September 29, 1925) Suggestions and Notes Have nothing morbid or sad in the program. Feature lullaby music and cradle songs. Use M. I. A. Girls as helpers wherever possible. Send a gift to all mothers who are detained at home through sickness. 5 During carnival, ward recreation committee might hold a little NOTES FROM THE FIELD 601 children's party in another part of the building. The stake recreation leader will provide outline for this party. 6. Those who have taken children to rear, though they have not been so blessed as to have children of their own, are honored according to the number they have taken, just as if they had borne them. 7. Gifts. Have a gift for every mother in the ward, such as: decorated candles, neck-wear, handkerchiefs, aprons, garters, perfumes, talcum, nail files, powder puffs, doilies, towels, useful bags, caps, mats, pictures, scarfs, books, music, beads, candy, etc. 8. Secure the gifts by having some of the articles made during August and September from scraps, under the direction of some capable person; by collecting contributions for purchasing gifts, from members of the Priesthood quorums and all others who will contribute; by having the young ladies of the ward make candy for gifts. 9. The day before carnival, all gifts should be wrapped and numbered. There should be enough gifts for every mother in the ward to have one. Keep the prizes separate from the gifts. Officers can determine before hand how many of these will be needed. 10. All Relief Society officers and visiting teachers should be at Relief Society Hall at 1:45 p. M. Teachers should receive all guests at the door, welcoming those from their own district and seeing that the necessary information is recorded in card index. A number should be pinned on each mother by her visiting teacher. This number should not be lost as it entitles her to the gift marked with the same number. 11. The stake will provide each ward, with cards for card index to assist in determining the prize winners. The stake will send copies of the short drama to all wards; the stake literary leader will assist in selecting and preparing a suitable story, if desired; the stake music department will provide list of suitable musical numbers from which selections may be made. Gunnison Stake. On September 4, the Gunnison stake Relief Society gave a social in honor of all local officers and teachers. An appropriate program was followed by dancing and refreshments, and a very sociable time was enjoyed by about two hundred and fifty people. Prizes were awarded to wards excelling in the following activities, during the first six months of the year: highest percent of attendance; greatest number of days spent in the temple; highest percent of teachers' visits; highest percent of Relief Society members taking Relief Society Magazine; teacher longest in service, and oldest acting teacher at the present time. Wards highest in the above first three activities received two Relief Society song books each, and the three latter received one year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. It was found that Mrs. Hannah M. Christensen from the Mayfield ward has been a teacher for the past forty-nine years and: is still active; that Mrs. Elizabeth Anderson from the same ward has acted forty-seven years; and that the oldest acting teacher in the stake is Mgrs. Sena Larson who is seventy-eight years of age, and never fails to visit her district each month. 602 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Teton Stake. On Friday, August 7, the officers of the Driggs ward Relief Society entertained in honor of the following elderly women of their ward: Ann Mary Hyde, Emily Fairbanks, Francis A. Hopkins, Sarah A. Price, Mary A. Griggs, Margaret E. Crandall, Francis Huff, and Emma McDaniels. The honored guests were taken for a car ride, after which a delicious luncheon was served in the stake office. The tables were beautifully decorated with flowers, large bouquets being used as centerpieces and smaller ones as favors. The time was spent in pleasant social chat and humorous stories, and toasts to the honored guests. Morgan Stake. On September 1, at Como Springs, the Morgan stake Relief Society gave a social in honor of the officers and members of the Relief Society, with their husbands. The stake recreation committee had charge of the program and games and assisted greatly in making the affair a success. The stake board served refreshments to 150 people. Northwestern States Mission. The Relief Society pageant, "The Guardianship of Life," was recently put on in Hall, Montana, to a large and appreciative audience. The Methodist minister, of Drummond, wrote the Society a very complimentary letter regarding the performance. An invitation was received later to take the pageant to Philipsburg (thirty miles distant) and put it on in one of their churches there. The invitation was accepted, but the opera house was used instead of the church because of stake facilities. Alpine Stake. The Alpine stake health center committee held eight conferences or clinics during the month of August and early part of September. Five of these conferences include several wards. The names of those with defects and the nature of defects was left with each ward Relief Society president. Realizing that the presidents understand conditions in their wards, they have been appointed assistants to the health center committee that follow-up work may be better looked after. The health committee with their social service fund assists very materially in the follow-up work. Great satisfaction is felt in all the communities with the results. Mindoka Stake. Early in July the Minidoka stake Relief Society. Wrote the State Health Department of Idaho requesting them to arrange a date for a clinic to be held in the stake. The request was readily granted and arrangements were made for a health conference to NOTES ROM THE IIELD 603 be held on one day at Heyburn (August 29), and one day at Minidoka (August 31). The idea of holding the clinics at the two places was to accommodate more people and lessen the distance people would have to travel. President May Jones, in company with the field nurse, made the preliminary arrangements and on the days appointed, Mrs. Jones, together with her counselors, Zella Smith and Matilda Sanford, did all the weighing and measuring of the children. There were four pairs of twins examined at the Heyburn conference and a total of 107 mothers and children examined during the two days. Only three children among those examined were found to be in normal health condition. Follow-up work will be done in the near future with the return of the field nurse, who will be assisted in the work by the stake Relief Society presidency. Tooele Stake. Several of the wards of Tooele stake have conducted health clinics during the summer, and, while the follow-up work has not been so thorough as desired by the stake, a fine beginning has been made and there is hope that the future will see great improvement along this line. REORGANIZATIONS Benson Stake. At the quarterly conference of the Benson stake, held in Richmond, July 18-19, president Lucy M. Funk with her counselors and board members were honorably released. Mrs. Funk has served faithfully and well during her term of office and she and her associates will long be remembered for the excellent work they have accomplished. At the same meeting the following officers were sustained to take the places of those released: Mrs. Effie A. Greene, president; Mrs. Hilda Roskelley and Mrs. Mable Pond, counselors; Mirs. Mary B. Timmins, secretary, all of whom bring to the Society a valuable fund of knowledge gained from experience in various phases of church work. On Wednesday evening, August 5, 1925, the new officers tendered a testimonial social to those retiring. An interesting program was rendered, after which games and dancing were enjoyed under the direction of the stake recreation committee. This was followed by a delightful luncheon served cafeteria style. Mrs. Mable Pond, counselor to the new president, paid a splendid tribute to the retiring officers, some of whom had served for ten years, presenting each with a book, beautifully inscribed, as a lasting token of appreciation for their untiring and faithful service. Mrs. Funk in a response said that each of those retiring had been deeply touched by the token of respect and declared that the joy of service had amply repaid all for the time and effort expended. 604 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Moapa Stake. The Moapa stake was reorganized August 30, 1925, at the quarterly conference. Mrs. Lois E. Jones was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Ellen Gentry, who passed away in May, 1925. The following other officers were appointed to serve with Mrs. Jones: Mrs. Viola Earl and Mrs. Lois Wells, counselors; Mrs. Ellen Perkins, secretary-treasurer. Eastern States Mission. On September 13, 1925, Miss Pearl Snow was honorably released as president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission. Miss Snow was an efficient and faithful officer, and gave very valuable service in the interest of the Relief Society during her term of office, but as the time had come for her release from the mission field, a reorganization was necessary. ' Miss Luella B. Owen was appointed president to succeed Miss Snow. "The world stands out on either side No wider than the heart is wide; Above the world is stretched the sky No higher than the soul is high. The heart can push the sea and land Farther away on either hand; The soul can split the sky in two And let the face of God shine thorough. But East and West will pinch the heart That cannot keep them pushed apart; And he whose soul is flat—the sky - Will cave in on him by and by." Guide Lessons for January LESSON J Theology and Testimony THE MOSAIC Dispensation (Continued), Editors' note: You will observe that the lessons for 1926 are in the main a continuation of those of 1925. In other words, the Theology Lessons will be taken from the Old Testament, the Literature Lessons will be American authors, chiefly of recent date. The Social Service Lesson will be Child Welfare, emphasizing mental hygiene of childhood. PART II. WOMEN OF THE DISPENSATION 1. Miriam. (a) Biography. Her parents were of the tribe of Levi, chosen to officiate in spiritual matters, and after whom the Lesser Priesthood was named. She was born about three hundred and forty years after the Israelites, consisting of seventy souls, came to Egypt. A girl not more than eight years of age she acted the part of a sentinel of salvation on the banks of the river Nile. She married a valiant Israelite named Hur, of the tribe of Judah, who, with Aaron, held up the hands of Moses until Israel prevailed. (Ex. 17:11-12.) That she was a mother in Israel is evident from Ex. 31:2. At the age of eighty-seven, she led the women of Israel in triumphal dance and song, replying to the men who sang the first song of record. See Ex. 15:1-21. In the wilderness she made one mistake. See Numbers 12. She died during the latter part of the journey in the wilderness, being about one hundred and twenty-five years of age. (b) Characterization. In the light of her long and strenuously active life, Miriam must have been a woman of unusual physical make-up. Intellectually she was a born leader. Note the adroitness of her question to the Egyptian princess at the bathing place. The fact of her taking a stand against Moses, in her one mistake, is indicative of a consciousness of mental ability. In her error, her strength was her weakness. It was a case of excessive ethical zeal blinding the eyes to spiritual judgment. She failed to hear the whispering of the spirit which always says, when the tongue would wag against the Lord's Anointed, keep still and wait upon the wisdom of the Lord, who has better ethical eyesight, clearer judgment, than any individual, and more authority than all Israel for dealing with his chosen ones. In all such cases the attempts at correction by humanity is a reflection on Divinity. Spiritually, this wonderful women meritoriously gained 606 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the title of Prophetess. See Ex. 15:20. The work she did received the approval of the Lord to the extent that one of the Prophets of Israel places her as one of the deliverers of Israel. See Micah 6:3, 4. 2. Deborah. For twenty years Israel had borne the oppression of Jabin, the king of Canaan, as a penalty for their turning away from the Lord. With broken spirits they cried unto the Lord for deliverance, but it appears that the men of Israel had dwindled in the qualities of leadership. Patriotism and faith in God was preserved in the character of Deborah. The people trusted her, and God inspired her. She was a "Prophetess," and as such directed the campaign that resulted in the deliverance of Israel. See Judges 4. The event is illustrative of the fact, that when men cannot, or refuse to, lead where leadership is needed, the Lord may make leaders of women.: 3. Jephthah's Daughter. The historical event that brought this woman into prominence has in it the lesson that the Lord is not pleased with pledges that involve the agency of man. The manner in which the maiden accepted the result of her father's vow, points not only to most filial love, but a sublime reverence for spiritual obligations. The granted request for a period of retirement to mourn, not the giving up of life, but the opportunity for perpetuating life is indicative of what the greatest desire of a high grade Israelite maiden was. See Judges 11:30-40. As to the fulfilling of the vow, we are left to conjecture, but there is a glimmer of light in verse thirty-nine that gives hope, at least, that the Egyptian custom of human sacrifice, which the Lord condemned, did not prevail. 4. Ruth. She exemplifies loyalty. The first two elements of loyalty are expressed in Ruth's reply to Naomi. See Ruth 1:16, 17. The third element of loyalty is found in the care with which Ruth carried out the counsel of Naomi. See Ruth 3. 5. Huldah. Living in the college in Jerusalem, she was a prophetess and theological scholar, and she gave the word of the Lord to the King of Judah. See II Kings 22. 6. Vashti. Though not an Israelite, she played a noble part in the history of Israel. Her conduct exemplifies the consistency of limiting the demands of obedience to a husband, to the realm of righteousness. She chose to be a queenly woman without a crown, in / GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 607 preference to being an unwomanly queen wearing a crown. See Esther 1. 7. Esther. An orphan early in life. Reared in Babylonian captivity, by her father's nephew. Chosen queen 'because of her beauty. Obedient still to her foster father. Saves the king from two traitors. Plans a fast for her people. Risks her life to save her people. Wins out against the arch enemy of the Jews. Exercises royal power to free the Jews. She was an ideal Israelite, an ideal woman. A woman of physical perfection, whose intelligence could be depended upon, whose faith would not weaken, and whose fidelity would never fail. See Esther 2:8, 9. The leadership of women in the Mosaic Dispensation, as in all previous dispensations, did not include ordination to the Priesthood. Yet, it was recognized by the Lord in the sending of Miriam to assist in the deliverance of Israel; in the fulfilling of the prophecies of the patriotic prophetess Deborah, and in the honoring of the declarations made in His name by the scholarly prophetess, Huldah. While the Lord blessed woman's leadership with merit behind it, He did the opposite with that based on meddlesomeness. Questions and Problems 1. Name at least four women of the Mosaic Dispensation other than those mentioned in this lesson. 2. What is your mental picture of Miriam as the Sentinel on the Nile? See Ex. 2:4. 3. Quote the women's chorus reply to the singing of the men at the Red Sea. 4. Describe Miriam as you see her at the Red Sea Celebration. 5. In what way is the mistake of Miriam being sometimes repeated in modern Israel? 6. Quote Micah 6:4 as evidence that Miriam was called of God to her mission. 7. Show that women are called in this dispensation and sent of God as was Miriam. 8. What are the proofs that Deborah was inspired by the Lord as Judge of Israel. 9. Relate Huldah's declaration, 2 Kings 22:15-20, and tell what the effects of the declaration were. See 2 Kings 23:1-17. 10. Where did Esther place her life on the altar for the salvation of her people? 11. Esther requested a general fast by the people. What does this request say concerning her home training and the customs of the Jews in the home? 608 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON II "Work and Business (Second Week in January) TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR JANUARY, 1926 THE NEW YEAR RING OUT WILD BELLS Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky, The flying cloud the frosty light: The year is dying in the night; Ring out, wild bells, and let him die. Ring out the old, ring in the new, Ring, happy bells, across the snow; The year is going, let him go; Ring out the false, ring in the true. —Tennyson. 1. The New Year is a time to look backward and count blessings rather than to think of misfortunes. 2. A time to cast off old worries and grudges. To rid the mind and the heart of all ill will. 3. A time to welcome new duties and responsibilities. 4. A time to examine ourselves to see if our mental attitude is such that we radiate joy. "Man is that he might have joy.'—Book of Mormon. "The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, or a hell of heaven."  5. A time to call with bounteous good wishes on those who need spiritual refreshment. LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) CANADIAN POETS Our last lesson was devoted to the three American poets of the United States who served in the Great World War. We shall devote this lesson to two Canadian poets who stand out conspicuously among war poets, for not even the name of Rupert Brooke which is hallowed by all who know the history of our war poetry, is held in such sacred memory as that. Of John D. McGrae, the Canadian poet, who wrote In Flanders'  2 GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 609 field, and close to him in recognition is Robert W. Service with his thymes of a Red Cross Man. John David McCrae, like Oliver Wendell Holmes and S. Weir Mitchell was a physician. Physicians have so often turned to writing verse that it is impossible to regard the matter as a mere coincident. This Canadian physician who was both soldier and poet, was born in Guelph, Ontario, November 30, 1872. He was the second son of Lieutenant Colonel David McCrae, who took over a battery to France. He was educated at the University of Toronto, being graduated with the M. D. Degree in 1910. He was given a chair in the University of McGill, where he lectured on Pathology and Medicine. He was appointed assistant physician to the Royal Victoria Hospital in Montreal and physician to the Alexandra Hospital. He collaborated with Professor Adams in writing a text book on Pathology and also contributed to the system of medicine by Ostler and McCrae, the latter being his elder brother. He served in the field during the second battle of Ypres where he was placed in charge of medicine and made second commander for the hospital unit provided by the McGill University. He was with the guns along the Ypres sector for 14 months and here he found the inspiration for many of his poems. His health broke under the strain of constant duty. In January, 1918, he contracted pneumonia which, complicated by meningitis, resulted in his death on January 28. Any one acquainted with the landscape of continental Europe knows that it is pretty well covered with green grass and liberally sprinkled with red poppies. 'Those who have seen the cemeteries of the late war, know that they are large plots of ground covered with green grass and white crosses that mark the graves of the men who fell in Flanders' fields and in France where the war was waged. IN FLANDERS' FIELDS N In Flanders' fields, the poppies blow Between the crosses, row on row, That mark our place; and in the sky The larks, still bravely singing, fly, Scarce heard amid the guns below. We are the dead. Short days ago We lived, felt dawn, saw sunset glow, Loved and were loved; and now we lie In Flanders' fields. 610 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Take up our quarrel with the foe! To you, from failing hands, we throw The torch. Be yours to lift it high! If ye break faith with us who die We shall not sleep, though poppies blow In Flanders' fields. This is a very unusual poem. It is realistic in its descriptive parts and idealistic in its spirit. The first stanza gives the setting in colorful words. The second stanza assumes that those who lie beneath the poppies and the grass after having made the supreme sacrifice, are speaking for themselves. The language of this stanza carries with it a very deep and touching human message, conveyed in language rarely matched in exquisiteness and effectiveness. The third stanza is a command to us to go on with the fight, followed by that most dramatic and soul stirring assertion: If ye break faith with us who die We shall not sleep, though poppies blow In Flanders' fields. ROBERT W. SERVICE Robert W. Service, born in the quiet little town of Preston, England, on January 16, 1874, emigrated to Vancouver, Canada, where the lure of an explorer's life took hold of him. He traveled up and down the Pacific coast experiencing many hardships, but collecting material which afterward crept into the lines of many of his poems. Before leaving England, he had served an apprenticeship with the Commercial Bank of Scotland, in the city of Glasgow, and now tired of the sacrifices incident to roaming up. And down, in rather wild country, he joined the staff of the Canadian Bank in Victoria, B. C. In 1905. He was transferred to White House, Yukon 'Territory and then to Dawson. Eight years in the Yukon resulted in transforming the bank employee into one of the most important poets of our time. If he collected some material for verse when he was floundering about on the Pacific coast, he collected infinitely more in the eight years in the Yukon. 1 The War made a deep impression on Robert W. Service as it did on a score of poets who read and speak the English language in many lands. He has collected his war poetry under the title of Rhymes of a Red Cross Man. His introductory poem which is entitled Foreword tells his story; for that reason we include it: FOREWORD I've tinkered at my bits of rhymes In weary, woeful, waiting times; GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 611 In doleful hours of battle-din, Ere yet they brought the wounded in; Through vigils of the fateful night, In lousy barns by candle-light; In dug-outs, sagging and aflood, On stretchers stiff and bleared with blood; By ragged grove, by ruined road, By hearths accrust where Love abode; By broken altars, blackened shrines I've tinkered at my bits of rhymes. [ve solaced me with scraps of song The desolate ways along: Through sickly fields all shrapnel-sown, And meadows reaped by death alone; By blazing cross and splintered spire, By headless Virgin in the mire: By gardens gashed amid their bloom, By gutted grave, by shattered tomb; Beside the dying and the dead, Where rocket green and rocket red, In trembling pools of poising light, With flowers of flame festoon the night, Ah me! By what dark ways of wrong I've cheered my heart with scraps of song. So here's my sheaf of war-won verse, And some is bad, and some is worse. And if at times I curse a bit, You needn't read that part of it; For through it all like horror runs The red resentment of the guns, And you yourself would mutter when You took the things that once were men, And sped them through that zone of hate To where the dripping surgeons wait; And wonder too if in God's sight War ever, ever can be right. Yet may it not be, crime and war But effort misdirected are, And if there's good in war and crime, There may be in my bits of rhyme, My songs from out the slaughter mill: So take or leave them as you will. YOUNG FELLOW MY LAD "Where are you going, Young Fellow My Lad, On this glittering morn of May?" 612 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "I'm going to join the Colors, Dad; They're looking for men, they say." "But you're only a boy, Young Fellow My Lad; You aren't obliged to go." "I'm seventeen and a quarter, Dad, And ever so strong, you know." "So you're off to France, Young Fellow My Lad, And you're looking so fit and bright." "I'm terribly sorry to leave you, Dad, But I feel that I'm doing right." "God bless you and keep you, Young Fellow My Lad, You're all of my life, you know." "Don't worry. I'll soon be back, dear Dad, And I'm awfully proud to go." "Why don't you write, Young Fellow My Lad? I watch for the post each day; And I miss you so, and I'm awfully sad, And it's months since you went away. And I've had the fire in the parlor lit, And I'm keeping it burning bright Till my boy comes home; and here I sit Into the quiet night." "What is the matter, Young Fellow My Lad? No letter again today. Why did the postman look so sad, And sigh as he turned away? I hear them tell that we've gained new ground, But a terrible price we've paid: God grant, my boy, that you're safe and sound; But oh I'm afraid, afraid." "They've told me the truth, Young Fellow My Lad: You'll never come-back again: (Oh God! The dreams and the dreams I've had, And the hopes I've nursed in vain!) For you passed in the night, Young Fellow My Lad, And you proved in the cruel test Of the screaming shell and the battle hell That my boy was one of the best. "So you'll live, you'll live, Young Fellow My Lad, In the gleam of the evening star, In the wood-note wild and the laugh of the child, In all sweet things that are.; And you'll never die, my wonderful boy, While life is noble and true; For all our beauty and hope and joy We will owe to our lads like you." GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 613 THE CONVALESCENT * * * So I walked among the willows very quietly all night; There was no moon at all, at all; no timid star alight; There was no light at all, at all; I wint from tree to tree, And I called him as his mother called, but he niver answered me. Oh I called him all the night-time, as I walked the wood alone; And I listened and I listened, but I nivver heard a moan; Then I found him at the dawnin', when the sorry sky was red: I was looking' for the livin', but I only found the dead. Sure I know that it was shamus by the silver cross he wore; But the bugles they were callin', and I heard the cannon roar. Oh I had no time to tarry, so IJ said a little prayer, And I clasped his hands together, and I left him lyin' there. Now the birds are singin', singin', and I'm home in Donegal, And it's Springtime, and I'm thinkin' that I only dreamed it all; I dreamed about that evil wood, all crowded with its dead, Where I knelt beside me brother when the battle-dawn was red. Where I prayed beside me brother ere I wint to fight anew: Such dreams as these are evil dreams; I can't believe it's true. Where all is love and laughter, sure it's hard to think of loss  But Mother's sayin' nothin' and she clasps—a silver cross. CARRY ON It's easy to fight when everything's right, And you're mad with the thrill and the glory; It's easy to cheer when victory's near, And wallow in fields that are gory. It's a different song when everything's wrong, When you're feeling infernally mortal; When it's ten against one, and hope there is none, Buck up, little soldier, and chortle: Carry on! Carry on! There isn't much punch in your blow. You're glaring and staring and hitting out blind; You're muddy and bloody, but never you mind. Carry on! Carry on! You haven't the ghost of a show. It's looking like death, but while you've a breath, Carry on, my son! Carry on! 614 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And so in the strife of the battle of life It's easy to fight when you're winning; It's easy to slave, and starve and be brave, When the dawn of success is beginning. But the man who can meet despair and defeat With a cheer, there's the man of God's choosing; The man who can fight to Heaven's own height Is the man who can fight when he's losing. Carry on! Carry on! Things never were looming so black. But show that you haven't a cowardly streak, And though you're unlucky you never are weak. Carry on! Carry on! Brace up for another attack. It's looking like hell, but—you never can tell: Carry on, old man! Carry on! There are some who drift out in the deserts of doubt, And some who in bruitishness wallow; There are others, I know, who in piety go Because of a Heaven to follow. But to labor with zest, and to give of your best, For the sweetness and joy of the giving; To help folks along with a hand and a song; Why, there's the real sunshine of living. Carry on! Carry on! Fight the good fight and true; Believe in your mission, greet life with a cheer; There's big work to do, and that's why you are here. Carry on! Carry on! Let the world be the better for you; And at last when you die, let this be your cry: Carry on, my soul! Carry on! " QUESTIONS AND PROBLEM 1. Select the details to be found In Flanders' Fields that make up the realistic setting of the poem. 2. Which do you consider the most beautiful line in the second stanza? Why? 3. Why have those who died in the great world war the right to ask us to see to it if possible that there is no recurrence of the war. 4. It has been stated that the poems of Robert W. Service are among the most picturesque that have been produced as a result of the World War, in other words, his strokes are vivid. Select from the poem entitled Foreword some stanzas that are characterized by vivid strokes. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 615 5. Young Fellow My Lad is perhaps the most popular of the war poems of Robert W. Service. How do you account for its popularity? 6. Select the group of stanzas in Carry On that are filled with a message of courage and also the spirit of courage. E. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) CHILD WELFARE The subject of study in this department for the coming year will be the child. The emphasis of all betterment programs, whether in the field of health, education, behavior or economics, is being placed more and more on the child and his development. It is almost a maxim that society's best investment is in the next generation. It will, therefore, be the purpose of this and subsequent lessons to consider the problems of child development, and to attempt to gain some comprehension of the influences that contribute to a child's developing personality. The whole movement of present-day child study has been stimulated by the introduction, in the last two decades, ofa new dynamic psychology. The movement has resulted in a growing concern about the child's emotional and mental life, and in an increasing attempt to apply methods of treatment to early manifestations of instability, nervousness, and other abnormal behavior. This attempt to study the child has been termed the mental hygiene movement, and has been fostered by psychiatrists—who are physicians who have specialized in mental health. The alarming and increasing number of individuals who have nervous breakdowns, who are social failures because they are "queer," and who become delinquent and have criminal careers, have forced the attention of physicians, sociologists, and others interested in behavior. With adults, the disintegrating forces have usually played much havoc and mental and emotional rehabilitation is frequently a difficult and often a hopeless task. But it is the hope of the medical practitioner and the social worker that early discovery of symptoms and the early treatment of. Abnormalities will save many of the next generation from failure, disappointment, unhappiness, and deterioration. The psychiatrist deals with the entire make-up of the individual. The physical, mental, emotional, and social problems are so closely related that it is only when all the forces 616 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and influences that act on an individual are understood, that the underlying difficulty can be discovered and treated. Children in almost every home present some type of behavior— difficulty in such common forms as fighting, nail-biting, day-~ dreaming, refusing to take food, bed-wetting, having night terrors, lying, etc. These manifestations cannot be treated by a set formula, but often an insight into the whole mental, physical, social and emotional life of the child reveals a simple cause that can be easily treated. The term that the mental expert uses to describe the entire individual is "personality." In the text that will be used as a reference, a number of personality studies are given, and it is hoped that by analyzing this material, that some insight will be gained into the many factors that affect child behavior and development. The term "personality" as defined by psychiatrists is the individual's total equipment. Personality is the sum of any person's physical, mental, and emotional make-up. The term personality, unless modified or explained can give no picture of the individual. We can conceive, however, of a feebleminded personality, an intelligent personality, an adequate personality, and even an inadequate personality. An inadequate personality might be an individual who cannot make the necessary adjustments to life; he perhaps fails as a student in school or has some difficulty with his school work; he perhaps has some trouble in the neighborhood and probably is a disciplinary problem at home. As he matures, his difficulty with his environment is likely to increase and when he reaches maturity he perhaps will fail in his economic and social life. An adequate personality would be an individual who has had a healthy normal childhood, succeeds fairly well with his school work, has no serious difficulty with his playmates, and as he matures finds some degree of success in the industrial world and becomes the head of a satisfactory family. The influences that make for the success or failure of a personality are many. We may classify them as physical, mental, emotional and social, although the same disturbing factor might be upsetting in all phases of development. For instance, a condition that makes for poor health is likely also to result in a lessening of mental vigor, in some emotional upset, and in economic insecurity. It is sometimes difficult to discover just what factor determines certain personality traits, as the causes are often obscure and interlaced. An individual's physical and mental make-up determine to a great extent his health and happiness. A physical handicap or a limited intelligence can be discovered by medical and mental experts, and when discovered give an insight into the individual's particular problem. But an individual with a GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 617 sound body and a fair intelligence may still present many personality problems. Psychologists are of the opinion that certain 'early emotional experiences and environmental influences greatly affect personality. They claim that a person's likes and dislikes and other various emotional reactions are set at a very early age, perhaps under the age of eight or nine. If certain strong likes are encouraged, certain fears instilled, or certain emotional habits are, cultivated in early youth, the child will be affected by these "fixations" throughout his life. The mental hygiene movement emphasizes the need of treating the abnormal behavior of children in order to insure emotional stability in maturity. The behavior clinic for children which have been established in a number of large cities attempts to understand the reasons underlying abnormal behavior of children who are usually regarded as wayward and delinquent. If a child lies, if he indulges in excessive day-dreaming, if he steals, or if he runs away from home, he is not considered by mental hygienists as a child needing punishment but as a behavior problem needing treatment. Psychiatrists do not attempt to give any general explanation for such various abnormal conduct as lying, stealing, etc., but they attempt to study each child as an individual. No two children respond to the same set of stimuli or to the same experiences in exactly the same manner. Two children of like physical vigor and like mentality, reared in the same home, may conduct themselves in entirely different ways. The psychiatrist in his attempt to understand the child tries to study his personality problem, then to interpret the problem to the parent or teacher and to modify the environment as far as necessary in order to remove the irritating factors. Reference: General Introduction, (pages 3-12), The Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile. Note: This text is written by Dr. Wile of the National Commission for Mental Hygiene, and Director of a Behavior Clinic in a New York hospital. The book is designed for parents, teachers, and social workers, giving practical information of Dr. Wile's study of fifty typical cases of child problems. It can be secured at Relief Society Headquarters, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, for $2.75, postpaid. It is recommended by the General Board that each ward purchase one copy of this book. Orders should be placed at once with the General Secretary. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEM . What is meant by the mental hygiene movement? 2. Why is the emphasis of the mental hygiene movement placed on child study: 2 3. What is meant by the term personality? 4, What is meant by a behavior problem? 5. Give an example of poor health affecting other phases of development. $7,500 for $1.00 Travel and Pedestrian Insurance NO PHYSICAL EXAMINATION Offer is Open to Everyone between the age of 15 and 70 New or old subscriber of the Deseret News may obtain a policy by paying a registration fee of $1.00 Send for an application blank today DESERET NEWS Salt Lake City, Utah. Insure today—tomorrow may be too late.
Conserved by Preserving
By using PURE, WHITE BEET SUGAR you have conserved in your winter's expense, because your Preserves, Jellies and Canned Fruits are so delicious and so JUST RIGHT they make healthful dishes for any meal. BEET SUGAR. Can not only be used for Preserves, Jellies, etc., but for those good candies, cakes and for table use. It adds FOOD VALUE and provides a balance of ration.
THERE IS NO BETTER SUGAR THAN UTAH BEET SUGAR FOR ALL PURPOSES
—When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
$8.50 set of HEALTH attachments free with each purchase for limited time. Not in books but in MILK you will find the secret of - Largest Selling finest milk and cream—as the majority of your neighbors will tell you.
Clover Leaf Dairy 159 West 1st South Utah Power & Light Co. Ask for Eureka Dept.
Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY "A Store Dealing in Quality"
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful Hose for wear Per Pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs $5.50
Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25
Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable. All Colors $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85
33 EAST BROADWAY Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
HEALTH. We offer the city's finest Wasatch 2177 Machine in the World Utah Power and Light Was 500 Ask for the Eureka Dept
MT PLEASANT UTAH
Snowcroft Bluepine Extracts Demanded by all Good cooks because of its purity, full strength and wonderful rich flavor. Approved and used for general household and sacred purposes. When you ask your Grocer for Blue Pine Food Products you are demanding the best. Also Blue Pine Spices—Vinegar—Vacuum Packed Shelled Walnuts
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. XII DECEMBER, 1925 No. 12
CONTENTS
The Christ, by Thorwaldsen Frontispiece Come, Thou Glorious Day of Promise A. Alex. Neibaur 619 The Editor Abroad Alice L. Reynolds 621 "If Ye Have Faith" Claire Stewart Boyer 628 Relief Society Conference Amy Brown Lyman 631 State Welfare Workers Meet Julia A. F. Lund 652 Editorial—Yuletide in Jerusalem 655 The Rock of Our Salvation 656 The Semi-Centennial of the Brigham Young University 657 Semi-Centennial Prayer Annie Pike Greenwood 659 Dr. Valeria Parker, Amy Brown Lyman 660 Condolence 660 The Home Alfred Osmond 661 Tennyson, The Boy and the Match Annie Pike Greenwood 662
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, each Year—15c Single copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
For our success we are indebted to our friends
Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 65 West First South
Call Your ICE CREAM and CANDY CAKE PUNCHES Our 30c or deliciously different 50c Special Phone WAS 3223 Brick 70
GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP
Southern Pacific Lines THREE TRAINS DAILY FROM SALT LAKE CITY AND OGDEN PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY.
For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write. P. BANCROFT, General Agent. 41 South Main Street. Wasatch 3008 Wasatch 3078.
Do Your Xmas Shopping NOW Write Vera Keene The Paris Personal Mail Order Shopper PARCEL POST TO YOU The Paris Co. 28-38 E. Bdwy. Salt Lake City
FOR RELIEF FROM ELECTRICAL TROUBLE Call ED. H. EARDLEY ELECTRIC Co. Everything For Electricity Designers—Makers of Fine Electrical Fixtures When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 54 EXCHANGE PLACE WASATCH 6486
An OVERALL with a Classy Appearance MOUNTAINEER STRIPE OVERALLS GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flour Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage man, the Teamster.
Mothers, do you know that the best leather soles will wear three times longer than poor ones? They are water proof too. You just try the Royal Shoe Repairing Co. and see 38 So Main street, Salt Lake City "Parcel post a specialty"
Ashton-Jenkins Co. Build a Better Home, We'll Finance You When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
6% Money for Home Building "Ask us about it" 38 So. Main Street, Salt Lake
Now In Our New Offices!
The Dearden System opens the Largest and Best Equipped Offices of Their Kind in Entire West
The story of the development and growth of The Dearden System reads like a fable and is quite as interesting.
—Ten years ago, two small back rooms were ample to accommodate my office. —Six years ago, three larger rooms were needed. —Three years ago four rooms were found inadequate and "class work" was instituted in order to care for our patients. —Today, half of the top floor of the Clift building is fitted up with the finest and most complete optometrical offices in the entire west.
Now, in addition to individual service, we can accommodate twenty patients in one class and handle six classes each day.
Reduced Rates will feature OUR NEW EVENING CLASSES for people employed during the day.
Two private examination and treatment rooms enables us to make special appointments to handle cases preferring individual treatment.
Larger reception room, new sun room and rest rooms are added features.
Dr. Stephen T. Dearden is now associated in this work.
Evidently people want "stronger eyes" instead of "stronger glasses."
Evidently the Dearden system has literally "opened the eyes" of laymen and professional men.
You are cordially invited as my guests to inspect the new offices.
Special elevator service direct to reception room. Take the west elevator to top floor. Consultation by Appointment. Phone Wasatch 2725.
DR. M. H. DEARDEN Eye Strain Specialist Top Floor Clift Building Take West Elevator
MY CHALLENGE TO RELIEF SOCIETY LADIES
FREE An Eversharp Ladies' Opalescent Pencil Free
Do You Read These Ads?
We want to find out. We have been told that we can reach the ladies much better by spending our money in the newspapers to advertise. We can tell with this plan we have adopted as we are offering to give each lady in Salt Lake City an Eversharp Blaisdell Opalescent Pencil Free if she brings in this advertisement to our store within 30 days.
WE KNOW THAT OUR PEOPLE PRICE AND QUALITY BEING EQUAL PREACH AND BELIEVE IN PATRONIZING OUR OWN PRODUCTS OR PEOPLE
We therefore know that while you are at the store you will take a minute's time to see the Newly Improved One Minute Electric Washing Machine which washes by Water Action only and soon saves its cost in eliminating Wear and Tear on the clothes. Is also built on the Thermos Plan and keeps the water hot for hours. Will wash a single article with a little water or 50% to 100% more clothes per batch than others. And it Won't Break Buttons.
If it's a better washer we are sure if you see it you will want to take advantage of our Free Trial offer and do a washing with it and prove it.
Or if you are thinking of getting a Vacuum Cleaner you will want to see the Famous Hamilton Beach which we can prove in ten minutes' demonstration will remove the deeply embedded grit from the rugs which positively cannot be removed with the ordinary vacuum cleaner. You should see it.
$8.25 Electrical Appliance Coupon
For each new Washer sale we make through this advertisement within 30 days we will donate to the Relief Society Committee of the Ward Carnival $8.25 in Electric Appliances for the Country Store or 5% of the purchase price of any article sold.
Our Prices are right so we give no prizes with purchases to customers. This is simply a salesman's commission to the Relief Society and the difference goes to pay for the advertisement.
239 State Street DODGE BROTHERS ELECTRIC Co. Was. 5050.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Competent Workers Are Well Paid
There is dignity, satisfaction and financial reward in a good office position. Our courses qualify you in a short time for one of these most desirable places. Let us show you what our graduates have done and are doing. Let us prove the value of our training. It is possible to enter any time Call or Write Now!
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. "Efficient Public Service" Salt Lake City Hyland 190
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
This Store —has always been, always will be, headquarters for gift books and greeting cards. Mail orders promptly filled, C. O. D.
Deseret Book Company When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple
LAUNDRY Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
For Every L. D. S. Home Should Have "O, My Father" —and— "We Thank Thee, Oh God, For A Prophet"
Double 75c Columbia Record
These records are brand new—regular 75c value—a selection on each side.
Specially priced now at 49c Add 10c for Postage and Packing Mail Coupon— We Ship Anywhere
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO. 61-3-5 So. Main, Salt Lake, Utah.
Send me record No. 2078, I enclose 49c.
SANTA CLAUS knows there'll be lots of good things to eat in his honor, but he wisely suggests that all of us remember one quart of milk a day for our health's sake.
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. 1st So. Wasatch 2177 Salt Lake City
In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience.
We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at 260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Was. 5132 and Hyland 180 Ogden, 466 24th St. Telephone 821
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Come, Thou Glorious Day of Promise
Come, thou glorious day of promise, Come and spread thy cheerful ray, When the scattered sheep of Israel Shall no longer go astray; When hosannas, With united voice they'll cry.
Lord, how long wilt Thou be angry; Shall Thy wrath forever burn? Rise, redeem Thine ancient people, Their transgressions from them turn. King of Israel, Come and set Thy people free.
O, that soon Thou would'st to Jacob, Thy enlivening Spirit send! Of their unbelief and mis'ry Make, O Lord, a speedy end. Lord, Messiah! Prince of Peace o'er Israel reign.
—A. Alex. Neibaur.
THE CHRIST, BY THORWALDSEN
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII DECEMBER, 1925 No. 12
The Editor Abroad Palestine By Alice L. Reynolds.
Fourteen hours from the city of Cairo brought us to the city of Jerusalem—the city that has been glorified in poetry and song throughout the Christian era. The words, "Jerusalem, my glorious home" rings in the ears of most Christians. The country between Cairo and Cantara, the place where we took the boat to cross the Suez canal, was not unlike other parts of Egypt, the mud hut and the date palm being in evidence most of the distance. It took only a minute or two to cross the canal, and when we reached the opposite bank a gentleman who had been detailed to meet us said, "You have now crossed from Africa to Asia," then he continued, "you are on the desert of Sinai, the country over which Moses passed with the hosts of Israel." Turning partly around he drew our attention to an air-dome, which he said was used in the transmission of air-mail to India. My traveling companion and I were rather weary, yet we could not sleep for we knew a few hours would bring us into the sacred city of the Jews, and we wondered all the time what it would be like.
At one time during the night we went to the window and looked out and there we saw an oasis. It consisted of date palm trees close enough to make a forest, they were wind-swept and sprinkled copiously with the sands of the desert. Nevertheless, we could readily imagine that this place would be a veritable haven of rest to the caravan passing to and fro from Palestine to Egypt. As the first streaks of dawn began to be visible, so that the landscape was more apparent, we noted groves of oranges with ripe oranges upon them. We learned later that the orange is one of the chief products of Palestine, also that it produces one of the most delicious varieties to be found anywhere in the world. Later in these articles we shall tell the story of our visit to Jaffa, the principal port of Palestine, where we visited orange groves whose trees were heavily laden with the sweetest oranges we have anywhere tasted in our life.
Before we reached the city of Jerusalem, we noted places of interest along the road. A few minutes after our train arrived we were at the gates of the city. Even a casual examination of the city of Jerusalem will reveal the fact that it is built upon a rock. The wall surrounding it has eleven gates, five of which are closed. The gates through which the main traffic of the city is carried on are the Jaffa gate, the Damascus gate, and the St. Stephens gate. Two prominent mountains have figured in the history of Jerusalem from very early days. The first is Mt. Moriah, the mount on which Isaac was taken by his father preparatory to the sacrifice; and the second, Mt. Zion, of which the poets sing. It is asserted on good authority that during the time of Christ a bridge spanned the valley of the Tyropean which lay between these two important mountains, but the rubbish of centuries has so filled up the ravine that today it has almost disappeared. Two other valleys deserve mention in any discussion of Jerusalem. They are the valley of Hinnon and the valley of the Kedron, or the valley of Jehosaphat. Mt. Zion and Mt. Moriah are respectively 2,500 and 2,600 feet above sea level. The mountains surrounding the city are not vastly higher than the mountains on which the city is built, but about them are twined historical events connected with the lives of the ancient prophets of Israel and with the life of the Savior.
[A SHEPHERD AND HIS SHEEP ON THE JUDEAN HILLS]
To the east of Jerusalem is the Mount of Olives, not lofty, but for all that, perhaps the most sacred mountain in all history. Whatever disappointment may be felt in attempts to locate other spots where the Savior traversed during the period of his great and glorious ministry, in this instance, at least, one has full assurance that he often went to this mountain and often lingered there. It has a commanding view. From its summit one can see the mountains of Moab and discern among the peaks that of Nebo, as well as the Dead Sea that stretches at their base. We entered Jerusalem through the Jaffa gate, near the place where the wall was cut that the Kaiser and his train of followers might enter in 1898. On our right was the tower of David, and on our left several hotels and the best tourists' shops in Jerusalem. The hotel at which we stayed was called the New Grand. It has the advantage of being within the walls of the city, while many of the hotels where tourists find accommodations, at the present time, are without the city walls. Our little party was there near the middle of February, and while the sky was clear and the air balmy, it was keen enough to call for a fire in the drawing room and an oil stove in our bed room at night, as well as a generous supply of clothing. We fared better, however, than a group of American tourists who were in the city a week earlier. They said they were compelled to sleep in their clothing in order to keep warm.
It is necessary to keep in mind that the Jerusalem of the present time is a Mohammedan city, Palestine having been in the hands of the Turks for over six hundred years. After refreshing ourselves at the hotel and eating breakfast, we were joined by our guide, Mr. John Audi. Mr. Audi is a Christian Arab who has lived in the United States for a number of years, thereby obtaining a very good knowledge of the English language which he spoke practically without accent. Strangely enough, he was a Protestant, belonging to The Society of Friends. He said that a Quaker visiting Palestine had interested his father in the Friends' religion, and that his family belonged to that sect. He enjoyed the life in America, and only returned to Palestine because upon his father's death he was left considerable property, and there was no one else to take care of it.
[PRIMITIVE METHODS OF FARMING IN VOGUE IN PALESTINE]
We were first taken into some of the business streets of Jerusalem. Little, old, narrow streets with a canopy overhead that afforded excellent opportunity for a fierce encounter in case a riot broke out in the street. Indeed, persons fighting in such streets have very little chance for escape; they might easily be caught like rats in a trap. At each of the little booths, which were so small that an ordinary piano box would furnish about as much room, were artisans making jewelry, bronzes, and shoes with inlaid pearls. These streets are so narrow that no vehicle could possibly pass through them. The pedestrian and equestrian use the same street; any minute one is apt to come face to face with a donkey; in fact, it is a very usual experience. The donkey trudges on, the pedestrian steps aside, no special inconvenience appears to be felt by either.
Elsewhere in these articles we have said something of the people one meets on a trip. Human nature provides a good deal of amusement for all of us; on the streets of Jerusalem it was not lacking. On the steamship Sphinx, the boat on which we had traveled to the Orient, we met two young women very greatly interested in crossword puzzles. We met these two young women once again on the streets of Jerusalem. The natural thing in passing would have been to exchange comments about some feature of the life in that city, but very much to our surprise, the young women greeted us with the query, "Have you done any crossword puzzles since we saw you last?" We caught another glimpse of this same young woman later on in our visit; she was at what is known as the garden tomb. Nothing in the surroundings seemed to be of much concern to her; there she sat in a clump of trees working a crossword puzzle.
We wandered through the streets for a time, past the vegetable stands that were so close to us that we felt we could touch them on each side by stretching out our hands. We were descending rapidly; our guide informed us that he was taking us to the wailing wall. The wailing wall is considerably below the present level of the city. The path over which we walked was pretty well lined with beggars who presented a very distressing appearance. Our Christian guide told us that the beggars were Jews, while the Jewish nurse that we found in a Zionist hospital said they were Arabs. It matters not to which group these people belonged, the thing that is significant is that beggars literally infest the Orient, and in no place did we see them where they looked more truly miserable than in and about Jerusalem. Two of the most horribly misshapen and thoroughly degraded human beings that I have ever seen were without the walls of the city of Jerusalem.
When we arrived at the wailing wall, we found a group of people facing a wall whose stones were of immense dimensions, very much larger than the stones used in the Salt Lake temple or flagstones sometimes made use of in pavements and in the floors of public buildings. They had their hands and faces against the wall and were swaying to and fro repeating Lamentations. They were wailing, reminding the Lord of his promise that at some future time they should return and redeem that land. Later, on Friday evening, which is the eve of the Jewish Sabbath, we came in contact with a much larger group at the wailing wall, so that the wailing gained materially in volume of sound. Their costumes proved interesting. The men wore long velvet coats. Sometimes black, sometimes blue, and sometimes a dark red. These coats were occasionally trimmed with fur. They wore hats made of velvet with a round crown and a brim that went entirely around the crown of medium width. This brim was trimmed with a yellowish brown fur. Their hair was cut behind and in front were two locks of hair that were curled tight and stood out in corkscrew fashion. We were told that the persons thus attired were Jewish rabbis, and that the very young men among them were on probation and would in time become rabbis. When we enquired why they wore these two locks projecting forth in front and looking truly hideous, we were told that it was through their regard for that passage of scripture which reads, "Neither shall they shave their heads, nor suffer their locks to grow long: they shall only poll their heads."
[A JEW OF JERUSALEM AS HE APPEARS AT THE WAILING WALL]
Miss Elliott and I were intensely amused at all we saw, and would have been quite content to have remained where we were standing, but we were approached by a gentleman who reminded us that we were in the gentlemen's part and that we should go to the other end where the women were wailing. However, while we complied gladly with the request, we were rather pleased that we inadvertently got out of place, as it gave us an excellent opportunity to see all that was going on. Another matter in connection with this wailing wall aroused our curiosity a good deal. We saw them poking little pieces of paper in between the big seams in the walls and wondered about it. Our guide informed us that they had a notion that the messages written on these notes would reach Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, their prophets to whom they are wont to turn in hours of distress and weakness, so that always a good many notes are sent. We retraced our steps through the vegetable stands and jewel shops, and as we looked to the sides we knew how perfectly easy it would be for a person to be caught unawares in these streets or dragged into some passage or dark hole from which he could never be recovered. People pretty generally know that Oriental streets should not be traversed in the night time, as most anything might happen.
[ST. CATHERINE'S CLOISTER BY MOUNT SINAI]
"If Ye Have Faith" A Christmas Story, in Verse By Claire Stewart Boyer.
A stranger into the little town she came, Black-cloaked and silent; She took the run down house Mae Alder lets To transients; and when asked her name, A semblance of a smile trespassed her lips And she returned, "Just call me Nancy." Black-cloaked and silent, A face and form that none would pause To look on twice— Unless it were the eyes That held a strange soul-anguish. Men would call her plain, And children coming home from school Would turn and wonder at her quiet way.
A week she worked about the little house Mae Alder lets to transients, Then she came with all the wond'ring villagers To church; black-cloaked and silent, With folded arms, and eyes that fixed themselves Upon the weary, awe-struck minister, And made him wince; And afterwards alone she made her way Back to the house.
But life has never yet let things go on Without strange happ'nings Even in the dullest place; Disease stalked forth one night And seven doorsills crossed; And all the town, Pox marked from epidemics of the past, Were frantic—not a nurse was to be found. The doctor to the smitten homes returned And there he found, Black-cloaked and silent, Nancy working with the sick. Each morning saw her pass from house to house, Till all were eased; Then quietly. And while they lightly slept, She slipt out to the woods and prayed for them.
It passed and once again within the church The villagers sang praises to their God, And as before with consecrated faith, Sat Nancy with crossed arms beneath her cloak. At home that night her door was pushed ajar, A friend, recipient of recent care, Smiled gratefully and ventured in the room. "You must be lonely. Come with me," she said. But slowly, sadly, Nancy shook her head. "I won't be getting out till after Christmas." And there flashed As sunshine, glancing on a hero's sword, A heavenly light across her dark, dull face. The woman turned and went, nor came again.
Mysterious and dolorous and queer They called her, all the women of the town. And no one saw her till that awful night They brought poor Silas home to Emma Dorn; Torn to rough bits was Silas in the mine, And none could calm the wife hysterical, The raving, cursing wife, insane with grief, Till Nancy, silent and black-cloaked appeared; And then a strange inexplicable calm Took hold of Emma as the two, In silence and in prayer wore out the night.
'Twas Emma who a fortnight later on Ran swiftly to the house Mae Alder lets, And drew forth Nancy from her bed to go To Hilda Humphreys in an urgent need. And while the single woman fought with fate For life new-born, The widow stood aghast, And thought she saw a halo round the head Of her who toiled and wept and toiled and prayed. And as they parted company at dawn 'Twas Nancy who stretched out her hand in thanks For this great privilege of saving life. And as a question rose in Emma's heart From Nancy's lips the calming answer fell, "If ye had faith," He said, "If ye had faith."
So for three months snowbound, alone she stayed Within her house. Once Hilda called and brought Her child along; And Nancy gazed at the tiny face, Wept once again and put away the frock She lately had been sewing. Hilda caught her hand, Her mother heart had guessed, And with a blessing and a sob, Bewildered, she went out into the night.
And as a common fear grips at the hearts Of men and women in close comradeship, So all the town felt this new mystery And feared for her. The winter snows arrived, And frost made white the homely barns, and rails Of fences that were staggering around The fields and stocks. The horses sniffed the air. And neighed with greater friendliness to see The farmers come to feed them in the morn.
And then it came—the day of wondrous joy, The day of love and gifts and memories, The church bell tolled. Sent forth its yearly call; And with a faith renewed, A hope regained, A greater love. Youth, infancy and age Trooped through the snow To worship Christ the Savior and the King.
But as the Christmas music rose and swelled, A nervous whisper passed from lip to lip, Until an undercurrent of soft sound Was eminent— For Nancy was not there. Even the minister who passed in pride Through aisles garlanded with green could feel The whisper ominous. And as he spoke A figure ever rose before his eyes— Black-cloaked and silent.
So to his people he made fervent plea For brotherhood of man the gift of God, And sadly ended with the Savior's words. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one Of the least of them My Brethren. Ye have done it unto me."
And in the hearts of all who knew her heart A vision rose of service and of love, A new kind of Madonna touched their souls, And after services their steps were bound Straight to the little house Mae Alder lets.
They found her sitting as one in a trance. Her eyes looked heavenward, Her arms were crossed, Her lips moved slowly as one in deep prayer. "Have ye forsaken me good Lord this day? Have ye forgot your servant here on earth? And has my faith been all for naught? One wish and only one wish have I had, For seven years each night and day I've prayed With faith far greater than a mustard seed, For him, a son, whom I could call my own. 'If ye had faith,' you said, 'If ye had faith'."
Slowly the women backed out toward the door, And then the minister, Filled with the spirit of the love of Him Stepped forth and spoke, And all his people trembling Sank to their knees, "My child, His mother Mary gave the world A son of service, sacrifice and love. A Christ, revealing to each lonely heart The way of life in true humility. Unto this people here since first you came God has revealed His glory in your face, And every act and word of yours has been A Christ child answering our prayer for help. You have a child, Your faith was not in vain, And he will live as long as any here Have tongue to tell your goodness and your love."
He ceased, her virgin eyes were filled with tears, Great tears of hope and love and happiness, And on her face divine the light of Her, The great Madonna of the world shone forth.
Relief Society Conference Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 3, 1925. There were two sessions: a meeting for general and stake officers and board members held in the Bishop's Building, and a general session in the Assembly Hall for the public. Both sessions were well attended and great interest was manifested in the general discussions as well as in the special addresses. The ushers for the conference were very courteously furnished by the Ensign stake. The excellent music provided for the services was under the direction of the chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, assisted by the organist, Miss Edna Coray. President Clarissa S. Williams presided at the sessions and conducted the general discussions at the officers' meetings, which were participated in by the officers assembled.
MORNING SESSION President Clarissa S. Williams
We greet you this morning, dear sisters, with love in our hearts for you and for your efforts in the great work in which you are engaged, and feel to say to you that your reward is sure, because he or she who has the Spirit of the Lord sufficiently to give time and energy in the benefiting of mankind will surely receive a reward from our heavenly Father.
The work of the Relief Society in the last six months has gone on rapidly. There have been some reorganizations. There have been some vacancies caused by death and aside from this the work of the organization has gone on in the same splendid manner in which it has always done. We are sending out to you our representatives to visit you at the conventions, and we feel sure that they are bringing to you words of blessing and of love and of helpfulness, and we appreciate the kindness which you show them and we feel to say to you that they appreciate what you do for them to make them comfortable and happy while they are away from their families and homes.
I would like to say a word to these officers in regard to the loyalty which they should feel to the mother organization of the Church. In the Relief Society there is no sectionalism. It is all the great Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, whether the members are in the mission fields or whether they are in the stakes of Zion. And be assured, dear sisters, that there is no feeling of sectionalism in the hearts of the General Board. You are all our beloved sisters. And whatever we try to do to lead the way is done in the true spirit of comradeship. I would have you all remember that no matter where you are, you are a part of that great body of women who are working for the betterment of women and children and communities.
Loan Funds: During the last year the General Board has set aside money for two loan funds, which are known as the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund and the Social Workers' Loan Fund. The amount set aside is $1500 for each fund. These funds were started by two $100 gifts to the General Board, to be used in the interest of any desired welfare work. It was decided by the Board to use this money for the beginning of the loan funds and almost immediately $1,400 was added to each of the funds. It is the intention of the General Board to lend this money to hospital graduate nurses who desire to take up training for public health, and to social service workers who desire to continue training in eastern institutions. The plan at present is to allow $750 to each applicant. We are very pleased to report that we have had one applicant for each of these funds, and have made arrangements to make the loans. Miss Ione Alder, a registered graduate nurse, has been tendered the loan from the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund and is now studying public health nursing at the University of California. Miss Genevieve Thornton, a member of the staff of the welfare department, has been granted a loan from the Social Service Fund and is at present registered at the University of Chicago graduate school of social science.
Nursing: The Civic Center in Salt Lake City, in co-operation with the Red Cross, has opened a department for training women in home hygiene and care of the sick, the course to consist of sixteen lessons of one hour and a half each, to be given in a period of two months. The Relief Society women in Salt Lake county are very much interested in this course and are taking advantage of it. At a meeting between representatives of the Civic Center and the General Board of Relief Society, the matter of arranging for a three-months' course in practical nursing was discussed, and it is quite probable that such a course will be given after the Christmas holidays. It is barely possible that women from the outside of Salt Lake county might be admitted to this course. If anybody here is interested, the General Board would be pleased to hear from them.
Night Meetings of the Relief Society: The question has been asked the General Board recently as to what the attitude of the board is relative to the Relief Society holding meetings at night rather than on Tuesday, the regular day. In answer to this question, I would say that the General Board prefers that Relief Society meetings be held in the afternoon of Tuesday, each week. However, in communities where the Priesthood has directed that the Relief Society should hold meetings in the evening, we recommend that the sisters comply with the request. Where Relief Society meetings are held in the evening, we recommend that the Relief Society either hold separate opening exercises from the Priesthood, or that they make a special request that the opening exercises be limited sufficiently so that the class work may not be interfered with or neglected. It has been reported to us that in some instances so much time is taken up with the opening exercises that there is not time to complete the lessons. Where Relief Society meetings are held at night, it is recommended by the General Board that a work meeting be held once a month in the day time, in order that the sewing and other activities of the organization shall not be interfered with. It has been called to our attention that where meetings are held in the evening, it is very difficult for the stake board to visit the wards. This, of course, would be a great loss to a Relief Society.
Vacation or Open Period Extended One Month and Course of Study Shortened from Ten to Nine Months: The matter of limiting the Relief Society lesson course to nine months was discussed recently by the General Board. At the present time the course covers ten months, and the months of July and August are considered vacation or open months, with the requirement, however, that the work and business meeting be held during these two months. The question of shortening the course and adding the month of September to the two open months of July and August for further vacation, or for special or extra preliminary meetings, was reported as being favored by many Relief Society women. The General Board, after due consideration, now recommends that the lesson course or the guide lessons of the Relief Society cover a nine-months' period beginning October 1 and ending the last of June, and that during the three months of July, August and September, the only requirement be that the work and business meeting be held; also that September be set aside for special work preliminary to the opening of the classes in October—for teachers' conventions and special meetings introductory to the regular work. President Williams presented this recommendation formally and it was unanimously adopted by the assemblage.
Relief Society Magazine: The question was recently asked whether or not the General Board is considering offering 10% to agents on each subscription they secure. Our answer regarding this is, that unless we raise the price of the Magazine, it will be impossible for us to allow a percentage to Magazine agents. During the war when nearly all other Church publications raised their subscription prices, the Relief Society Magazine undertook to publish its periodical without raising the subscription price, and in so doing it went behind. The matter was presented to the stake presidents assembled in conference just at the close of the war, and at this joint meeting of General Board members and stake presidents, it was decided to abolish agents' fees and to make a heroic effort to keep the price of the Magazine at $1 a year. The stake presidents assembled at that time agreed to work for increased subscriptions and to do everything possible to make the Magazine a success without raising the price. Everybody connected with the Magazine in the stakes and wards took up the work voluntarily and we have been able to maintain the Magazine at the rate of $1 a year. If agents' fees should be established again, it would be necessary at this time to raise the price of the Magazine, and the general Board feels that it is better to maintain the present rate and follow the present plan. It is felt by many Relief Society workers, both stake and local, that the duties of Magazine representatives and agents are not the most arduous of Relief Society workers' duties, and we feel sure that they are all glad and willing to give volunteer service. The work of stake and ward presidents and secretaries is more taxing and comprehensive, and other officers and class leaders are giving a great deal of volunteer service. We hope that if this question comes up in any of the stakes and wards that the stake presidents will be able to explain why the Magazine agents in the Relief Society are not allowed commissions. Agents are allowed to deduct, from the total amount sent in for lists of subscriptions, the postage and money order fees charged them when making remittances to the Magazine office. If this allowance were not made, Magazine agents would have to defray this expense, personally, when sending subscriptions to headquarters.
President Williams reported that Miss Alice Louise Reynolds, who has been absent on an educational trip during the past year, has returned home and is ready to resume her duties as associate editor of the Relief Society Magazine. During her absence, Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans has been conducting the editorial affairs of the Magazine, and has carried it on most satisfactorily.
HEALTH WORK IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY Discussion led by President Clarissa S. Williams
It is desired in this discussion that consideration be given to the brief reports of those who are undertaking the establishment of maternity beds and maternity hospitals. We understand from some of our stakes, that a slight preliminary survey was made by them in an effort to establish maternity beds, and it was found that the women in those localities preferred to be confined in their own homes. The General Board is frequently asked for advice along these lines, and has decided that the best thing to do is to find out how those who are undertaking maternity beds and hospitals are getting along, before making further recommendations to other stakes. We shall ask Mrs. Amanda Bagley, of the Cottonwood stake, to report her work in this direction, and also Mrs. Nellie P. Head, of the Oneida stake. We should like to know, among other things, what prices are being charged for care in the beds and in the hospital, and whether or not the beds and the hospitals are well patronized. We should like to know also of the difficult problems met in conducting the work, and whether such undertakings pay their own expenses. We should like also to hear a word from the Blackfoot or Shelley stakes regarding the pooling of funds and hiring of a public health nurse. We understand that in Sevier stake the old pressure cookers which were bought during the war to bottle fruit, are being used successfully for sterilizing, and we pass this on to you.
COTTONWOOD STAKE MATERNITY HOSPITAL Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, Stake President
After nearly ten months of experience in maternity hospital work, we have concluded that it is the biggest job our Relief Society has ever undertaken. As pioneers in this movement we do not want to lead any of you into unsafe territory. The task is an arduous one, and if we succeed we shall feel to praise the Lord because we could not do it by our efforts alone. The first problem we had was in securing our home; the next was in finding means to equip it; the next was help to operate it; and the last is converting people to coming to the
hospital. In order to convince you of some of the problems we have in keeping help and in securing the kind of help we want, I will relate an instance of the past week. We have been fortunate in having two of the best nurses in the state in our hospital. About two months ago our head nurse had to take a vacation and we have found that it is very hard to find another to succeed her. We have also learned that without a good nurse in charge the hospital would go on the rocks ina few days. The other help is not quite so important as is the head nurse, as she assumes the responsibility of the home and of the patients, but good food and clean rooms and clean sheets are also essential. We have also found difficulty in keeping a good cook. We feel that a community without access to employment 636 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bureaus would have a much harder time than we did in securing help. We had considerable difficulty in finding a laundress for our home, and finally my counselor and I had to go to the home and do the washing until we could secure some one to do this work. In times of necessity some of the stake board members have gone to the hospital and served six weeks at a time, without pay. In our times of concern we have often felt with Shakespeare, that "fools rush in where angels fear to tread." The Church purchased the Hospital for us. It is located one block east of State street on 56 South street. It is a beautiful white brick two-story building, and is built with every modern convenience, but a home is not a hospital, and we have suffered many inconveniences from that fact. With all these drawbacks I feel that we have been wonderfully successful. I do not know a patient we have had who has offered a complaint, after leaving the hospital. We feel that this is our advertising year, and we have not operated the hospital long enough yet to know whether it will be successful or not. We spent $2,250 buying furnishings; the up-keep every month has been $450, and improvements each month, $50, making a total of $500 per month. Receipts from the hospital per month average $365; receipts from other sources, $502. The other resources that I speak of have been funds for entertainments from our sewing department, personal contributions, wheat interest, and our annual stake dues. We are a very economical board. We never have spent 5c of our annual dues for personal purposes, not even so much as for a street car ticket. We pay our own expenses and aside from this our board members make monthly contributions for what we call pin money, and when we buy flowers or anything of that kind, it is, paid for from our pin money. We have had in our hospital 101 patients up to date. We have only been operating it ten months, and the first two or three months there were but few patients. People are slow to adopt anything new even for their own benefit, and so we have had an average of a little over ten patients a month. Our prices at the hospital are $40 for two weeks. That covers everything in the hospital, including the operating table, all medicine (unless there is a prescription by the doctor), the use of a baby's layette and the baby's laundry. This price was arranged at the opening of our hospital, but the doctors and nurses have now recommended $40 tor twelve days. They say the patients are almost always ready to leave the hospital in twelve days and the shorter period will give us more revenue and room for more patients. We have ten patients at the present time. The most we have had at one time were eleven. The people of Jordan stake have been as loyal as our own stake in supporting the hospital. We have had almost as many patients from Jordan as from our own stake. We have patients RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 637 from all over the county. All of the doctors in the county have had patients in our hospital. People may have any doctor they wish at the hospital, and the doctors charge $5 less when their patients are confined here than at home. Therefdre, we may reduce the rate at the hospital by $5, which would make the total cost of a confinement $35 for board and room for two weeks, besides the doctor's fees. You know that you could not hire a woman in your home to wait upon a sick woman and baby for $35 for two weeks, besides board of two people. We know the General Authorities recommend that we rear families and we are trying to make this possible for our young people, leaving them without excuse. A woman said the other day, "I feel positive my daughter never would have lived if she had been confined at home." We have three babies also that we feel could not have lived in private homes, even with a trained nurse in attendance. These babies were' watched night and day (one nurse in a home could not have done this.) ' They were fed with medicine droppers; the doctors gave up all hope. These three children are now well and thriving. These lives would have been snuffed out, we feel, if it had not been for the special care they received. If we can save one life or more we will feel grateful to the Lord. I feel that our venture is going to be a success, and that it will fill a long-felt need, but it will require continued and 'serious effort on our part. It isn't my place to make recommendations, but in the outlying stakes, I do not see how it would be possible to operate a maternity hospital. I pray that the Lord will bless us, that we may have inspiration to know what is best to be done, and that we may have strength of body and activity of mind to do it. ONEIDA STAKE MATERNITY BED. Mrs.Nellie P. Head, Stake President In December, 1924, the Oneida stake equipped a room for maternity purposes in the home of a practical nurse who maintains five beds of her own. In 1927 we had asked each Relief Society woman to donate $3 during that year for hospital purposes, and this fund we used for the preparation and equipment of the room. We felt just a little anxious about the scheme, so we did not use our wheat interest. We decided to use the money we had collected first, with the understanding that if the experiment should prove to be successful we might enlarge the plan and finance the work with the wheat interest. Our little room opened the last of December, and we have had up to the present time only fifteen patients. Had the nurse depended on this alone it would not have paid expenses, but as she has five other beds, she felt that expenses were fairly well met. The charges are $30 a week per patient. 638 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This includes the board, the laundry, the medicine, use of the delivery table, aud everything but the doctor's fee. The regular price of the doctor is $35. Two of our three doctors have reduced the price $10 to all Relief Society members who come to our room for confinement. Our great problem is to convert the mothers to coming to the home to be confined. The equipment of our room was selected by physicians, and is the very best that could be secured. It can all be used in a hospital, in case we establish such an institution in the future. Franklin stake also has a maternity room in the same home. A question was asked regarding patients who cannot afford to pay. In Cottonwood stake they are referred to the County Hospital, where they receive very good care. In Oneida stake, the expense is met by the bishop and the ward Relief Society. Mrs. Mary E. Freeman, president of Shelley stake, reported that last year Blackfoot and Shelley stakes joined with the Red Cross, the county, and the schools in securing a very efficient public health nurse for the county, the Relief Society women donating very liberally to this cause. A great deal of help was received from this nurse and much good was done along the line of examining children and having their defects attended to. The demonstration was so successful that this year the schools have secured a nurse. Mrs. Mayme Laird, of the Idaho Falls stake, reported that the chief difficulty in this stake is in converting patients to go to the hospital. They feel that they would rather remain in their own homes for confinement. The Relief Society has pooled its wheat interest in the stake and is trying to use the money to the best advantage of all concerned. In the Idaho Falls hospital there are sixty-five rooms, and practically all of them have been furnished by the Relief Society organizations in the vicinity. There is a rate in the hospital for a two-bed room, of $42.50 for ten days, and while the doctors there charge $35 for normal cases, they have given the Relief Society a rate of $25, so there is a saving of about $12.50. Most of the people who have wished to go in can well afford to pay the regular rate; only about three patients have asked for the special rate. In such cases, where necessary, the Relief Society has paid the hospital charges, provided the husband would give the $25 to pay the doctor. FUNCTION OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH NURSE Miss Elsie Witchen, Demonstration Nurse with the Federal Children's Bureau Maternity and Infancy Division I want to begin by telling you how interested I have been in the discussion this morning and to tell you how thrilled I am at the amount of interest there is in health work in the Relief ae RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 639 Society in Utah. I myself have been working in southern Utah for the last six months and invariably I have found the Relief Societies of infinite help to me in trying to put across my program. Many people have not yet learned to distinguish the difference between the trained nurse and the public health nurse. The reason is because public health work is so new—so new that many of our hospitals are not even taking much notice of it. The difference between the regular trained nurse and the public health nurse is this: the trained nurse is a graduate nurse who has spent three years in training in a hospital, where she has learned to take care of people who are ill; the public health nurse is a hospital graduate nurse who in addition to her hospital training has entered a university where she has spent from four months to a year in learning how to keep people well. One has three years' training, the other has three years' training plus whatever graduate work she has in the university along public health lines. A public health nurse must absolutely be qualified to be a health worker. The salary of a competent public health nurse is not less than $150 per month. Just what are the functions of the public health nurse? One of the functions of the public health nurse is bedside care. Of course the public health nurse cannot go around the country hunting up sick folks—she coud not spread herself out thin enough to cover the whole community in that respect, but in emergency cases it is absolutely part of the public health nurse's duty to give bedside care. She gets a great deal of satisfaction from doing a good piece of bedside care, and it is one of the best means of making friends in her program. Any nurse who goes into a home, as where there is a child sick with pneumonia, and shows the mother how to take care of the child, how to bathe the child, how to ventilate the room, has converted the whole family to her cause. She can do an infinite amount of good not only in taking care of the patient himself, but also in instructing the mother how to properly care for the child. 'We shall consider this the first function. Most of the public health nurse's endeavors, however, must be along educational and preventive lines. In this work she begins with the child, and even before that, with the expectant mother, and her services go on to people one hundred years old. She hunts out expectant mothers, brings information on diet, personal hygiene, exercise and rest. Once the public health nurse has become thoroughly established and people know just what her duties are, they come to her constantly for advice. In rural communities where medical service is not readily obtainable, the nurse goes to the expectant mothers and detects danger signals and persuades the mothers to go to the doctors for care. After the. Baby comes, the nurse is the best adviser the mother has in connection with the care and feeding of the child. If the nurse 640 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE can convert but one mother from the old hit and miss method of nursing a baby every time it cries, it won't be long before every mother will be hunting up the nurse and asking her what to do so baby will be as well as Mrs. So and So's baby. Many of you know that the pre-school child is left to take care of himself pretty much as he pleases. Very frequently by the time he reaches school age he is full of defects. Why should we waste four years of life between 2 and 6, and allow the child to develop from a nice healthy baby into a sickly school child? The public health nurse should go into the home and help the mother in caring for the pre-school child, so that when he enters schoo] he will have a good sturdy physique. When the public health nurse gets into the school she has a big task ahead of her. It is a peculiar thing that people have an idea that one of the biggest functions of the nurse is the weighing and measuring of the children. That is only one of her duties. The nurse, if she is wise, will interest the teacher and tell her how to detect the most glaring physical defects, so that the teacher can help the nurse in getting the defects corrected. Many of our little school children are laboring under most tremendous handicaps. I have in mind one little boy who was considered stupid, and his nickname was "Clumsy." The county nurse happened along and she suspected that there was something wrong with this child's eyes. She examined his eyes and found he had a very grave eye defect. She recommended that the child be fitted with glasses. The physician recommended that the child be put into a sightsaving class, where he very soon demonstrated that he was anything but a dunce, and after his eyes were fitted with glasses, he no longer stumbled over everything, and that name of "Clumsy" became a thing of the past. Such experiences are common to school nurses. The nurse always works in connection with the physician, as her duty is to inspect, and have the doctor give the physical examination. In the matter of contagious diseases, the people do not always understand the proper method of prevention. The public heaitn nurse can go into a community and in many instances stamp out epidemics after they have started, but it is better yet if she can go into the community when just one or two cases are reported, and can prevent these cases from spreading into a real epidemic, by teaching the mother how to prevent this. The old idea that if Johnnie has the measles, Susie should be put in bed with him so that she would get the measles, too, is all wrong. It is not necessary for anybody to have the measles, whooping cough, scarlet fever, or anything else, if the family knows how to guard other members of the family. If there is a disease in one town, nurses will establish temporary headquarters in that town, inspect the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 641 school children every day, and have those who are affected quarantined. If that sort of work were followed out in a town in many instances the spread of contagious diseases could be prevented. In such cases, the nurse will utilize the school teacher. She will instruct the school teachers in the main symptoms of the communicable disease. If the school teacher knows that the time to exclude the child is when he has a cold and his eyes and nose are running, much contagion could be avoided. If the child has only a cold he will be back in school soon. If it is measles, the other children will not be exposed. The nurse can do much good in group instruction to the mothers and girls of the community, by holding classes in general hygiene and sanitation and care of the sick. You can readily see in a rural community where there are few physicians and no trained nurses, what it means to a mother if she knows just what to do when the children are down with illness. I wish I could tell you off-hand how many people hold certificates in home hygiene and care of the sick given by the Red Cross. It is away up in hundreds of thousands. Think what it means to the country! That type of instruction will be given by any qualified nurse. Another thing which is very important is health conferences and clinics. Throughout the state of Utah, the State Board of Health, through its division of child hygiene, has been holding a series of conferences and they have organized in a great many of the communities, health centers. These conferences are of untold benefit in helping to detect defects in the child. Where there is a public health nurse, she can always cooperate with the state board in helping to plan and bring such conferences to the community, through utilizing the local physicians or bringing in the state workers. In connection with clinics there are two kinds that the nurse can promote—preventive and corrective. Preventive clinics are very helpful in rendering children immune to different types of disease. Clinics for prevention of diphtheria, searlet fever, small pox, and even for prevention of typhoid fever may be held. We have absolutely dependable serums for prevention of these diseases, and public health nurses should include clinics of that kind in their programs. And render children in our communities immune to the scourges of childhood which sometimes cause impaired health in later life. The nurse can form corrective clinics to examine children who need tonsils and adenoids removed, teeth and eyes cared for, but where treatment is necessary, she of course cooperates with the local physicians and dentists. If there are no local physicians or dentists, it is possible to bring in physicians from other communities for work of that kind. There are still other matters with which the nurse might concern herself—community sanitation and health. Any public 642 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE health nurse makes it part of her business to see that the community is kept as clean as possible from a hygienic standpoint. If. For instance, she finds that the ranchers are dumping refuse from corrals into ditches, and families are using water from the ditches for household purposes, it is part of her duty to talk to the offenders, to get them to see the error of their ways. If they do not reform, the community opinion may be aroused against them and they will mend their ways. There are many things of this kind which the nurse can help to remedy. I have outlined quite a few things that a public health nurse can do, but it would be humanely impossible for any one nurse to include all these items in her yearly program. I believe thoroughly that school nursing should form a great part of every public health nurse's program, but I do not believe that school nursing should be the entire program, because there are so many other things which are equally important. After all, if we want to establish a sound physique the time to begin to establish that sound physique is when life itself begins; therefore the care of expectant mothers and young children should form a large part of the public health nurse's program. Any program should be based on community needs and community wishes. The next question is how is the nurse going to function adequately? Can one nurse covering large counties like we have here in Utah, do a good piece of work if she is working alone? It cannot be done. In order for a nurse to function properly, it is a good thing to have that nurse working with a health committee, representative of the whole community. The doctors, dentists, school board, county commissioners, and civic and religious organizations, and any other community groups that can be interested in the work, should be represented on the committee and should get behind the work of the nurse. A community organized in this way will find that a large amount of work can be accomplished. There is a necessity for such community organization. The Relief Society and Red Cross might in many instances cooperate and carry the work to a point where the entire community understands it and wants it, and then it might be turned over to the county for support. It is just about impossible in a short period of time, two or three years, to get everybody in a community acquainted with what a nurse is trying to do, particularly if that nurse is working alone. That is why we feel that where there is established a public health nurse and program, a joint committee should be responsible for the work and see that it is properly supported.. In arranging to put in a public health nurse, it is necessary to get the cooperation of the county commissioners and leading citizens, so that there will be no antagonistic feeling in the community against her when she comes in to work. The state of Utah RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 643 has no law telling the county commissioners to use funds for the employment of a county nurse, but they can use their health funds for this purpose. Frequently this work is financed by private organizations until the county commissioners wake up to the fact of the benefit, and then they take over the matter of paying the nurse. A competent, well-qualified public health nurse may be secured for $150 per month. AFTERNOON SESSION PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS We are always happy 'to greet you again after a separation of six months. I believe it is due you, as members and workers in the Relief Society organization, to know just a little of the workings of the organization and what is being done in the diifferent stakes of the Church and in the missions of the Church. Most of our efforts in the past year have been in the line of better health conditions, and the suggestions that have gone out from the General Board have been taken up by the stakes and enlarged on in many stakes. You may be interested to know that we have one Relief Society maternity hospital, and at the officers' meeting this morning, Sister Bagley, president of the Cottonwood stake, reported the difficulties which are encountered in this stake in operating the hospital. Still they have hope and courage and believe that their venture will in the end prove successful. I think I must repeat a remark that Mrs. Bagley made in reporting the work of the hospital. She said, quoting from Shakespeare, "fools rush in where angels fear to tread." That told us a little of the anxiety and worry and work that has been connected with the work so far, of that little ten-bed maternity hospital. It is the only venture of the kind in the organization, and I believe that no matter how much we may desire to follow that stake, we will be a little cautious and study well the conditions surrounding our communities and be pretty sure that we will be able to carry out the financial end of the venture, before making a beginning. We had this morning some reports of work being done in different stakes of the Church by public health nurses, and we feel to continue to urge the stakes to cooperate with the agencies in the counties where they are located and endeavor to support public - health nurses. We feel that if our organizations will attempt that sort of a venture, they will find great good resulting from it and less anxiety and expense than would be connected with other ventures in the nature of maternity beds and hospitals., There is great progress in the world along the lines of health and welfare of women and children, and we feel that as mothers— the mothers of the Church, we want to be in the forefront of any 644 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE activities which have to do with the betterment of the health or our women and our children, and we know that you are busy studying the pamphlets from the government, that you are looking through the magazines for the newest things in regard to maternity and child care. We say to you, dear sisters, that the Lord will bless you in your endeavors, that he will help you. When, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Word of Wisdom was given to the Latter-day Saints, the Lord knew what was proper for his people and you all know that the principles inculcated in that Word of Wisdom are principles which are being adopted by the world in order that people may enjoy better health and better living conditions, and we ought to realize and be thankful that through the inspiration of our heavenly Father, we were the first to receive instructions along that line, and we ought to be able to faithfully carry out these instructions. The Relief Society, as far as we are able to learn, is in a flourishing condition. It is growing. Interest is being maintained throughout the Church. Younger women and young mothers are becoming interested in the work, and they are beginning to realize that through this organization they will be able to be better mothers and to take better care of their children. We commend any efforts which will bring into the organization those whom we most want to assist. We have even recommended that we mothers and grandmothers who have reared our children and probably are helping to rear our grandchildren, can very well stay at home and take care of little ones while the young mothers go to Relief Society meetings and get that which will benefit them in carrying on the work in their own homes. I believe that there is love and harmony existing throughout the Relief Society organization, that there is more loyalty to the organization and more loyalty among members than there has ever been. I believe that the petty things that sometimes worry and annoy us are being forgotten in the big things that face us, and if we can but believe that our little troubles are of naught compared to the advancement of the community in which we live, we will have done a big thing. The members of the General Board are united. They love one another. They are endeavoring with all their might to fulfil the great obligation which has been placed upon them by the presiding authorities of the Church. They visit you yearly. We have already now visited more than half the stakes in the Church in connection with the other auxiliary organizations, and the reports that are brought back to the board of the work, and of the efforts that you are making to advance the women in your communities are very encouraging; and we feel to say to you, dear sisters, that inasmuch as you are prayerful and humble RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 645 and endeavor to have the Spirit of the Lord with you in the carrying on of your work, you will be blessed. We would feel, too, to say to you that if you are not in harmony with your stake officers, if you are not in harmony with your ward officers, if officers are not in harmony with one another, it is incumbent on you to get the right spirit and be in harmony, and our heavenly Father will bless you and grant your prayers if you approach him in love and humility. I cannot conceive of anything grander than this great body of sixty thousand women all looking towards the same goal, all upholding and sustaining one another, all working for the betterment of the communities in which they live.
Two weeks ago I had the privilege of visiting the national parks of the state, that is, Zion National Park, and Bryce, and the rim of the Grand Canyon, and on that visit Brother Williams and I had the extreme pleasure of talking with many tourists from other states. I was very much interested in talking with a gentleman and his wife—a very noted man who is a photographer and who travels through the country taking pictures for the National Geographic Magazine, and other noted magazines. In our conversation it came out about the Relief Society, and he said, "Why, Mrs. Williams, isn't that strange, I first heard about the Relief Society of the 'Mormon' Church in Panama!" Another noted person, a lawyer, on that same occasion, said, "I have heard much that is detrimental to the 'Mormon' Church, but I have never heard anything but the highest praise for the women who are working in the 'Mormon' Relief Society." Now let us be worthy of these words of commendation, and let us so live that our light will shine throughout the world.
During the past six months there have been some changes in the Relief Society organizations: Benson stake, reorganized July 26, 1925, Mrs. Lucy M. Funk, released, Mrs. Effie A. Green, appointed president; Yellowstone stake, reorganized July 19, 1925, Mrs. Annie S. Kerr, released, Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd, appointed president; Moapa stake, reorganized August 30, 1925. Mrs. Lois E. Jones appointed president to succeed Mrs. Ellen Gentry, who passed away in May of this year; Garfield stake, reorganized August 30, 1925, Mrs. Sarah S. Larsen released, Mrs. Irene N. Rowan appointed president; Eastern States mission, reorganized September 13, 1925, Miss Pearl Snow released, Miss Luella B. Owen appointed president; Liberty stake, reorganized September 24, 1925, Mrs. Myrtle B. Shurtliff released, Mrs. Hazel Greenwood appointed president; Hyrum stake, reorganized September, 1925, Mrs. Louisa H. Allen released, Mrs. Susannah Nielsen appointed president.
Our thanks and appreciation is extended to the officers who have retired from their positions, but we hope that wherever they are located, they will always have the interest of the Relief Society work at heart, and that they will assist in the work. To the new officers, we will say that we hope your efforts will be blessed as were those of the officers who preceded you. We say to the members to help your officers with your love and faith and prayers that they may be instruments in the hands of their heavenly Father in carrying on the work to its full fruition.
(In introducing Bishop Cannon, President Williams said: "We are delighted to present to you our new Presiding Bishop. As you all know, we are directly the wards of the bishop, and we are very proud of our affiliation with the Presiding Bishopric, and of our close cooperation with them in doing the work which we are endeavoring to do, and we trust that you are all under the direct care and guardianship of your bishops. Sometimes I think if you don't get all the support you need, it is because you do not know how to be tactful enough with your bishops. Now we want to be very tactful with this new Presiding Bishopric, so that we can get all the support we shall need in our work.")
SYLVESTER Q. CANNON Presiding Bishop of the Church
I want to reciprocate in the beginning, the expression made by President Williams. I certainly appreciate the opportunity of being associated with the presidency and General Board of the Relief Society; and so far as being able to get what you want, I have never seen it fail, when women, set out to get anything, they usually get it.
When President Williams addressed you as brothers and sisters, I thought I ought to address you as sisters and brothers, because there are very few brethren here, and besides, I think the sisters are entitled to the courtesy of being addressed first. I know the usual expression of brothers and sisters does not intend any discourtesy to the sisters and, of course, in a sense, as the brethren hold the Priesthood, they should be addressed first.
I feel honored in being with you this afternoon and seeing this splendid gathering of many of the leading women of this Church—the women upon whom devolves the responsibility of the growth and development and progress of this wonderful work of the Relief Society organization. I know you know so much more about life and living than I do, that I feel abashed in speaking to you.
I came here to hear a recital of the work being accomplished by the Society. I feel that women know much more about life than I do. A woman brought me here. Women trained me in my youth and throughout my early life, It is true my mother passed away while I was small, but I had a very loving older sister and a fine housekeeper who gave me the most careful training and consideration. Then, as I grew to manhood, I took upon myself the covenant of marriage, and I am sure that every man will acknowledge the fact that while he is supposedly the head of the house, he knows where to go to get his instructions. I am reminded of a story that is told of a woman, known as Mrs. Suffragist, who was being examined for an insurance policy. The insurance doctor said, "Mrs. Suffragist, do you have any insanity in the family?" She said, "No. But my husband occasionally thinks he is head of the house." That is a mild form of mental aberrations that husbands sometimes have.
So I feel timid in speaking before women rich in life's experience. I realize the responsibility that rests upon you. I appreciate the work you do, in a measure. I have been associated in the presidency of one of the stakes of Zion for twenty-one years, and realize how much work is done by the Relief Society presidency and stake board, and through them and through their organization by the ward presidents and workers. It covers such a broad field and yet it is such a field of specialization!
I would like to read to you just a word that Arthur Brisbane records in one of his columns that he writes in the Deseret News and other papers, that expresses so wonderfully the work and accomplishments of women: "The beating heart of women ended cannibalism and slavery. It will in time end poverty and human misery." It is a very remarkable statement, but I believe it is absolutely true.
I realize the fact that the Relief Society is developing and specializing in the way of social welfare work and other lines of activity that are very commendable. Some time ago, before the change in the Presiding Bishopric, Bishop Nibley and counselors invited the stake presidents of all the stakes in the Church, to come into the office and discuss social welfare and organization of social welfare throughout the stakes of the Church, and this gathering was representative of the stakes throughout the Church. One of the conclusions at that time was that, while, of course, the bishop is responsible for the distribution of charity as far as the funds of the Church are concerned in the various wards, it is his business and his privilege to consult with the Relief Society officers, to invite them to meet with him and his counselors once a month at least, and discuss with them problems of charity and social welfare; that it is his privilege and that he should turn over to the Relief Society, in large measure, the handling of cases of social welfare in the various wards, because the Relief Society can give more careful attention. Women are possessed of greater sympathy and in many respects of greater discernment than men, and will give more time and more study to the conditions of various families, not only for their physical relief but also for their development and their training. The matter of social welfare is largely a matter that women, with their large sympathy and their keenness of understanding can carry out more effectively than can men, and especially when they have had careful training coupled with experience and the spirit of the Relief Society to guide them. I believe this work is being undertaken on that basis in all the stakes of the Church.
There should be the greatest cooperation between the bishop of the ward and the president of the Relief Society. The bishop of the ward should turn over to the Relief Society problems for investigation and recommendation as to what should be done in individual cases. The General Board has recently given a course in social welfare work. We would be very much delighted if it could be arranged so that in all of the stakes throughout the Church the women could get such training, so that they would be prepared to investigate and determine the real needs of families and individuals in distress.
We would rejoice if all our people could be put on a basis where they could develop and increase in happiness and peace and prosperity. That is part of our mission here. This Church is the one Church in all the world which has in mind the welfare of its members temporally as well as spiritually. The Lord has revealed to us that our temporal development is important because it enables us to live more completely and fully and to serve him more faithfully. It is true on the other hand that prosperity is often a curse rather than a blessing; that is a thing we must guard against. People who have been prospered should be encouraged to realize the source of their blessing, and should give of their time for the welfare of the work of God, that they thereby may become a blessing.
Another matter we are interested in is the matter of maternity welfare. A mother is entitled to every consideration and her welfare and protection and health is of the utmost importance to the welfare and happiness of the family. If a mother has to sacrifice her health for want of things she ought to have, something is lacking. This needs consideration, and provision should be made in every locality so that mothers can receive such attention as is necessary and important for their well-being. And so, in some instances as has been suggested here, maternity hospitals have been established or are being considered.
We are interested also in the matter of community nurses, and in the providing of ways and means whereby they can advise and visit homes to give such service as is necessary without extreme expense to those in moderate circumstances. I commend to you and all officers of the Relief Society throughout the Church, the importance of this measure—this matter of proper training and proper nursing, so that people in all the localities of the Church may get proper consideration and attention.
Mr. A. W. McMillen, who has been here on Red Cross work, called this morning at my office and expressed appreciation and pleasure for the wonderful work being done by the Relief Society. He said, "We realize today that one of the greatest problems in the matter of welfare is in the rural districts," and he said, "I believe the Relief Society of the 'Mormon' Church is in a position to do, and is doing more good in that respect than any other organization that I know of."
I pray the Lord to bless you in your labors, and I am sure that through your efforts much good will be accomplished, and that you will be a very potent means in the country in solving the problem of poverty and misery. May we work together to this end. And strive to build up faith and righteousness in the hearts of our boys and girls.
PALESTINE—PAST AND PRESENT Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Member of General Board
A series of articles will be published in the magazine on Palestine that will include all that was said in the address.
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT
My heart is full of gratitude for the blessings of this day. I am grateful for the privilege of being a member among you. I am thankful that we have been privileged to have a member of our board visit the Holy Land and bring a personal message from that land of long ago. I am thankful to my heavenly Father for the preservation of this wonderful book, the Bible, that the things of life that are important to us can be found within its covers.
Four hundred years ago this year, 1925, the first edition of the Tyndale Bible was published. In those days it was chained to the pulpit and only the privileged few were allowed to read it. But we are wonderfully blessed in that we have free access to this wonderful and sacred book; and, of course, the little personal touch that we have had this afternoon of the life and people of the past, adds to our joy and appreciation.
In the Bible we have promises that signs shall follow the believer and those who serve the Lord, and I believe that I have been the recipient of many of these signs, even to the speaking in tongues. I want to tell you of just a little instance that came to me when I was a young girl, attending the Mutual Improvement Association. Our president on one occasion was inspired with the gift of tongues, and in it she said there were girls in the audience who would yet be sent to the nations of the world to preach the gospel. And I looked at a little fair-headed child upon her mother's lap, and I said, "It will be in the day when that little child is grown up, because surely it will not come to pass in my day." But out of that very association five girls went to Europe to preach the gospel, and it happened that Sister Inez Knight Allen and myself were the two first called.
I had presented to me a Bible when I landed in the mission field, by a very dear friend, and within its covers was written the following lines:
Last eve I passed before a blacksmith's door, And heard the anvil ring the vespers chime. Then, looking in, I saw upon the floor Old hammers, worn with beating years of time. "How many anvils have you had?" said I, "To wear and batter all these hammers so?" "Just one," said he, then said, with twinkling eye, "The anvils wear the hammers out, you know."
And so, I thought, the anvil of God's word, For ages, skeptic blows have beat upon, Yet, though the noise of falling blows is heard, The anvil is unharmed—the hammers gone.
—Selected.
May we ever cling to the anvil of God's word is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON
At the close of this profitable and notable conference, it would be well for each of us to consider what has been the special benefit to us. I cannot help but contrast the conditions of the women of Zion with those of the women of the old world, as portrayed by Miss Reynolds, and I am truly thankful for the privileges and blessings of the gospel, and for the faith which comes with it.
I am sure each one of us here could bear a beautiful testimony of the healing of some members of our family, but do we have that faith sufficient in our lives to keep us from complaining. It is that faith that makes us equal to things that are almost impossible to bear, it is faith that brings that peace to us that the Psalmist certainly had when he said, "The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want."
In a farming community in one of the stakes of Zion the crops were greatly in need of rain, and the stake president, being a man of faith, called his people together and they prayed for rain, the stake president promising the people that they should have rain. One of the brethren who was there and had participated in this beautiful service, and who would have testified that he knew God lived, left the meetinghouse, scanned the sky, and said, "It looks as if there is a long drouth ahead of us." He shattered his faith, for faith and doubt cannot dwell in the same person at the same time. James tells us, "Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering: for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed." He who wavereth need not expect a blessing from the Lord.
We sing, "When the earth begins to tremble, bid our fearful thoughts be still." I feel thankful that it is possible for us to have that faith that will hold us when the earth does begin to tremble, and I believe that we can have it if each day of our lives we bid our fearful thoughts be still when meeting the small problems of life. I feel also that we will not have that great blessing when the earth does begin to tremble if we have not exercised our faith before that time.
It is required that each person do his best, and all of his best, for only the very best is enough in the service of God. You remember the situation of Moses, who had left his home and sacrificed his comfort that he might serve the children of Israel. He met his problem on the banks of the sea and, as far as human possibilities are concerned, they, the children of Israel could not walk over the sea, but Moses had faith in God and he shouted to his people, "Stand still, and see the salvation of God."
I heard of a man who gave a good deal of service in the Church, and one of his brothers who was interested more in worldly things said to him, "How can you afford to give so much time, Aren't you afraid you won't have sufficient in your old age if you give so much time." The man answered: "I have an individual fortune. I have been given a note—a promissory note, and this note reads: 'Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land and verily thou shalt be fed.'"
Have we the faith to do our very best and trust in the Lord? I pray that our Father in heaven may help us to appreciate this wonderful and glorious faith that is given to us, that we may so live that the promise of the Lord may be fulfilled.
MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN bore her testimony of the divinity of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the manifold blessings resulting from faith in the gospel. The conference was then adjourned.
State Welfare Workers Meet By Julia A. F. Lund.
The Utah State Conference of Social Workers, in conjunction with the American Red Cross Regional Chapter Conference, was held at the Newhouse Hotel, Salt Lake City, Thursday and Friday, October 1 and 2, 1925. It was most gratifying to observe, that at this, the first conference of the organization in the state, so many people with kindred enthusiasm. And the same purposeful spirit in the work, were assembled. Social workers employed by private agencies, schools, civic groups, the state, the Federal Government, and religious denominations, were represented. The Relief Society was justly proud of the large number of its workers present.
The opening session began with a short address of welcome by the conference president, E. J. Milne, who briefly discussed "The Conference Movement." Gov. George H. Dern followed with a very happy expression of hearty approval of the movement and of sincere desire to cooperate in the great social work so manifestly needed in Utah. He said that crime was the heaviest expense to the people, and he urged a campaign of education with prevention, rather than correction, its aim.
Rev. John E. Carver gave one of the most eloquent and inspiring addresses of the conference, on the subject, "The Spirit of Social Work." It was a most powerful plea for human fellowship. "The Goitre Survey in Utah," by Dr. James Wallace, completed the first meeting.
The joint luncheon with Red Cross on Thursday was a very profitable as well as enjoyable event. The outstanding feature of this was the very able discussion of "The American Red Cross in Time of Peace," by A. W. McMillen of the National Red Cross.
On Thursday afternoon the Red Cross Regional Chapter Conference met for its first session. "The National Red Cross as it Functions in Disasters," was treated by Miss Maria Johnsen, Field Representative for Utah and Nevada. "Duties and Place of Organization of Local Preparedness Committees" was discussed by Miss Kate Williams of the Salt Lake A. R. C. Mrs. J. G. Falek of Weber county A. R. C. closed the session with a comprehensive talk on "Organized Volunteer Service," and the utilization of this service in the peace-time program of the Red Cross.
The Thursday afternoon session of the Social Service Workers was particularly interesting. The subjects were vital and were treated by experts in their various lines. "Public Institutions and Agencies" was the main topic divided into "Juvenile Court in the Rural Community," presented by Judge Arthur Q. Nielson. "Woman's and Children's Labor Conditions in Utah," by Mrs. Irene M. Fowler, and "The Unemployment Problem," by Nephi L. Morris.
The evening meeting of the conference was given over to a discussion of "The American Indian," by Mr. John Collier, of California. Mr. Collier has given all his time to a study of the subject, and he presented many interesting and startling facts relative to the Indian. It is his hope to challenge the conscience of the American people to serious and proper consideration of the cause of the Indian.
Friday morning was a joint session with the Red Cross, and was one of the most interesting of the conference. The program itself suggests this: "Community Organization," by A. W. McMillen of the National R. C., "Minimum Family Budget," by Miss Jean Cox, and "Constructive Work with Families," by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.
Supt. G. N. Child presided at the joint luncheon on Friday. The subjects treated were "Local Aspects of Junior Red Cross Program," by Mr. J. B. Driggs, and "World League of Children," by Mrs. G. H. Green. As these subjects were ably presented, the listeners felt "here with this international work among the children is the foundation for a world league for peace."
Friday afternoon the conference again divided into two sections. One was devoted to a discussion of Child Welfare Problems. Dr. F. J. Curtis gave a masterly paper on the "Social Treatment of Mental Disorders." Miss Dora Mabin spoke on the "Pre-School Child," and Miss Charlotte Stewart on "Recreation and Child Development." Mr. Richard Burton gave an outline of "American Legion Welfare Work," and the meeting concluded with a discussion of the "Standards of Child Placing." The address was given by Mrs. E. H. Burdick, followed by remarks from Judge Hugo B. Anderson and Dr. T. B. Beatty.
The closing session of the Red Cross was given over to a consideration of plans for the Ninth Roll Call, and a discussion of First Aid and Life Saving as the suggested objectives in a plan of organization of a Life Saving Corps. After the report of the Resolutions Committee, the meeting adjourned to the Deseret Gymnasium, where a life saving demonstration was arranged by Charles Welch, Swimming Instructor at the Deseret Gymnasium, and a first aid demonstration was arranged by Dir. Charles G. Plummer.
The officers of the conference, elected at the preliminary meeting held in July, were voted in again for the coming year.
It is impossible to overestimate the effect for good these conferences and the efforts of these serious, highly-trained workers have on the country as a whole. It will certainly be through the efforts of such that we shall come to realize the ideals of our great social Democracy.
Welfare work, as we understand it, includes everything which is done by society for the benefit of those who are not in a position to compete on fair terms with their fellows. The advice of our prophet founder was to seek knowledge wherever it is to be found. And truth is a part of the gospel, so we are ever prepared to see it and grasp it. Our complex economic and industrial life is forever presenting new and changing problems which can only be solved by constant study, keeping abreast of the times, meeting the forward-looking people, and first, last, and all the time, honoring every truth by use.
A Christmas Carol By Phillips Brooks.
Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night! Christmas in lands of the fir-tree and pine, Christmas in lands of the palm-tree and vine, Christmas where snow peaks stand solemn and white, Christmas where cornfields lie sunny and bright, Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
Christmas where children are hopeful and gay, Christmas where old men are patient and gray, Christmas where peace, like a dove in its flight, Broods o'er brave men in the thick of the fight. Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
For the Christ-child who comes is the Master of all, No palace too great and no cottage too small; The angels who welcome him sing from the height: "In the City of David, a King in his might." Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
Then let every heart keep its Christmas within, Christ's pity for sorrow, Christ's hatred for sin, Christ's care for the weakest, Christ's courage for right, Christ's dread of the darkness, Christ's love of the light, Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
So the stars of the midnight which compass us round Shall see a strange glory, and hear a sweet sound, And cry: "Look! The earth is aflame with delight, O sons of the morning, rejoice at the sight." Everywhere, everywhere, Christmas to-night!
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD.
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Editor - - - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XII DECEMBER, 1925 No. 12
EDITORIAL
Yuletide in Jerusalem
Eight years have elapsed since word flashed across the wire that Jerusalem had been taken from the Turks by the Allied forces. Many people, of late years, have been instructed and entertained by the recital of the manner in which Allenby, "the last great Crusader," entered the city of the ancient prophets. Some of the interest that attaches itself to Allenby's entry into Jerusalem grows out of the marked contrast of his entrance to that of the Kaiser who visited the Holy land in the year 1898. So ostentatious was the manner of the Kaiser's entrance, that part of the wall near the Jaffa gate had to be torn away, in order that he might proceed into the city according to his own notion of a fitting entrance. Allenby, to whom the city had been surrendered in a spirit of relief and joyousness on the part of the natives, made his official entry on foot as a Christian gentleman.
Since that time Great Britain has accepted the mandate for Palestine, giving encouragement to the Zionist movement, as it did so. The Mandatory government is responsible for a good many necessary improvements in the country, such as good roads, and the careful patroling of these roads, so that the tourist and native may traverse them in comparative safety, without fear of being pounced upon, looted, or perhaps murdered by robbers. During the eight years that have elapsed since the British assumed the responsibility of the government, at least forty thousand Jews have entered Palestine. "The Jews used to come to Jerusalem to die, but now they come here to live," said an enthusiastic young nurse who is giving her life to the care of the sick in that country.
The government in Palestine is striving very hard to assist these people who are so sorely in need of assistance, for they are in the grip of poverty, disease, and the most terrible religious superstition, and racial hatred that can well be imagined. Despite the fact that the Jewish people, through the Zionist organization, is extending a helping hand which touches the lives of the inhabitants in so many ways, they are not welcome. Neither the Christian nor the Arab wishes the Jew to come to what they regard their land, consequently all the ill will they can extend and all the obstacles they can put in the way of the Jews they do with a clear conscience and seemingly a good deal of satisfaction.
Nevertheless, all signs point to the hour when prophecy concerning the redemption of this land, will be fulfilled, and when Jerusalem shall rise and shine and once more become a joy and glory to the inhabitants that dwell therein, and to all those who surround her habitations.
The Rock of Our Salvation
The approach of Christmas brings thoughts of Christ to mind. During the last year there has been much disturbance in the Christian world in relation to the divinity of the Savior. There is scarcely a Protestant church in the land that has not a group within it that denies the divinity of the Christ. Part of the difficulty that Protestant churches are experiencing in this matter, comes from the fact that the position taken by many Christians is not logical, and the trained youth in the churches who are taught to think, refuse to accept an unreasonable proposition. We take it that it is both illogical and unreasonable for people to deny the personality of God and yet insist that Jesus, the Divine Redeemer, is the son of God.
In the midst of all the confusion resulting, it is certainly a source of consolation to the Latter-day Saints to know that God is our Father, and that Jesus the Christ was indeed born in Bethlehem of Judea, and that his birth was heralded by the song of angels upon Judean hills; that he was and is the Only Begotten of the Father, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith saw him in his vision of the heavenly beings, when the Father, pointing to the Son, said, "This is my beloved Son, hear him."
The Semi-Centennial of the Brigham Young University
Last month a number of important anniversaries occurred which were appropriately celebrated. Perhaps the one that attracted the most attention was that of the semi-centennial celebration held at the Brigham Young University, Provo City, Utah. Many old students returned to their Alma Mater, and greetings were the order of the hour. The most important feature of the celebration was the address delivered by Dr. Herbert E. Bolton, head of the Department of History of the University of California, on the "Mormons" and the development of the West. The address was comprehensive in its scope, extraordinary in its scholarship, and most fascinating in the manner of its presentation. It is seldom that any one is privileged to hear so masterful an address. His closing words sent a thrill to the heart of every student of the institution, to every lover of education in the audience, and filled the people with a sense of pride because of achievements wrought by good leadership and hearty cooperation. We include Dr. Bolton's tribute to education:
[LEWIS HALL, THE FIRST HOME OF THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY, AND THE SURVIVORS OF THE ORIGINAL 29. FLOAT IN SEMI-CENTENNIAL PARADE]
Education
"Young and the founders believed in education. In Nauvoo they had maintained schools and established a university. They maintained schools for their children on the dreary march to the Basin. In the pioneer days every new settlement, as soon as it had planted crops, opened a school, in the open air, in tents, in log houses, in adobe buildings. Worthy of remembrance among Utah heroes are the pioneer teachers who taught in those little adobe schools. Every city charter provided for schools and grammar and high schools were soon established.
"At the top of the system were placed the colleges and universities. It is the boast of Utah that the first law of the state of Deseret provided for building roads and bridges and the second for a state university. That institution, founded in 1850, was the first university west of the Missouri. In an appeal to patrons of learning throughout the world the first chancellor, Orson Spencer, declared that, 'The emigrant outcasts of all nations will find here the cheapest terms.' It is neither arrogant nor extravagant to say that this institution is forthwith prepared to teach more living languages classically than any other university on the face of the earth; and as to the matter of dead languages, we leave them mostly to the dead." The university was opened in 1851. Tuition was eighty cents a week. Teachers' salaries were paid in potatoes, cabbage, and lumber. "Instead of being drawn on the bank, they were drawn on wheelbarrows."
Brigham Young the Founder
At the head and center of all these remarkable doings for more than a quarter of a century was Brigham Young. Of course, he had many able lieutenants. Wherever Brigham led, the "Mormons" followed. Wherever Brigham directed, the "Mormons" went. He was the head of their Church, their spiritual guide, their mentor in every-day conduct. He led them across Iowa. He directed their march to the basin. Against other advice he determined the location for the new Zion. He chose the site for the capitol and for the temple. He was generally the titular and always the real head of the secular government. He directed the founding of new colonies, the development of industries. He stamped the life of the community. He established the public school system. He signed the act for the founding of the state university, and shortly before he died, as a special means of carrying on education under the direct influence of "Mormon" ideals, he endowed and founded two "Mormon" institutions of higher learning. One was the Brigham Young College. The other was this institution whose founding half a century ago we now celebrate. On that eventful day he made all you young people before me and the generations to come his heirs. No wonder you revere his memory.
It is certainly a cause for gratification that 50 years after the founding of the institution, one who is not numbered among us religiously, should come to us and should pay such high tribute to the Great Founder.
Semi-Centennial Prayer Written by Annie Pike Greenwood for the Semi-Centennial of the Brigham Young University. (May All Lovers Of Their Alma Mater Use It).
O Thou that nearer art than blood and bones! O Thou that nearer than my breathing art! I pray Thee, when I fall upon the stones, I may arise with a courageous heart.
Give me the courage for the valiant fight, When, in the world, is justice to be done; Armor me with the power of the right, And trust in Thee that every battle won.
When I have done a wrong, as I shall do, Not being yet perfected through Thy plan, Let me admit it humbly, as one who Would do no willing wrong to any man.
And when I merit punishment, O Lord! Give me the strength to take it like a man! Accepting so the wound as by Thy sword; Gladly thus paying all the debt I can.
O God! Then let me never once forget That in my heart I, too, have known all sin; And let me ease the soul that feels regret, Seeing he is what, tempted, I had been.
And let me laugh, O Lord! And let me smile While every trouble, every trial and pain, Remembering, clouds are but a little while, And always there are flowers after rain.
I know Thy plan is in my every task; Life stumbles blindly till I trust again; I lift no prayer for self: I only ask Father, reveal Thyself to me!—Amen!
Dr. Valeria Parker, President Council of Women Amy Brown Lyman, Recording Secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States.
News reached the office through telegram of the election of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, as Recording Secretary of the National Council of Women of U. S., on October 31, 1925. Mrs. Lyman is eminently qualified to fill the position and it is a compliment to her personality as well as to the Relief Society, the organization which she represented at the National Council. The election placed Dr. Valeria Parker at the head of the National Organization. Dr. Parker is a woman of learning and sympathy and has for many years been interested in any movement aiming at the protection of women. She has attached herself to practically every big woman's movement in America and has been greatly interested in legislative measures seeking control of traffic in women and children and welfare work in general.
There are forty affiliated organizations in the National Council of Women, the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. being two of the charter organizations. Mrs. Lyman was successful in obtaining sixty-six of the seventy-two votes cast for recording secretary, a result which shows clearly that the Relief Society is appreciated as an organization and known on its merits, and that Mrs. Lyman is known and her qualifications recognized by the women of the organization. We feel to congratulate the Relief Society and Mrs. Lyman on the result of the election. We recognize in the new President, Dr. Valeria Parker, one of the most progressive and sympathetic women in America, and are proud in the realization that Mrs. Lyman is the same type of woman so that each can give the other hearty and mutual support.
Condolence
It is with deep regret that we note the passing of Nina McKeen. She was a somewhat constant contributor to the Magazine. Many of our readers will doubtless recall her poems for they were both tender and beautiful. Our heart goes out in sympathy to her husband and small family of children in this the hour of their sore bereavement. May the choicest blessings of our Heavenly Father attend them to comfort, and bless and support.
The Home
A college president speaking at the inauguration ceremonies of another college president is credited with the following statements in relation to women and their work in the world. Speaking of the highest place a woman can occupy, he said: "I do not say that they should not be fitted to help do the work of the world in the various colleges—quite the contrary. I do not say that they should not go into politics, although from my point of view that can be overdone; I am not even hinting that a woman shall not go into any activity for which she is fitted or even unfitted, I am only raising a thin, piping voice to express the Victorian opinion that, whatever else a woman may do, the highest purpose of her life always has been, is and ever shall be, world without end, to strengthen and beautify and sanctify the home."
We believe that the Latter-day Saints will recognize in this statement of the college president, good sound common sense.
HOME By Alfred Osmond, Head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah
No other spot on earth is half so dear As that which we have fondly called our home. The stars of fortune, shining bright and clear, Will safely guide us to that peaceful dome. And e'en when fate has forced our feet to roam And holds us captive on a foreign shore, Our fancy leads us from the towering tome To wend our way towards the cottage door, In quest of modest joys that love and light adore.
For mother's love is there and, weeping waits, To lift the latch and let the wanderer in From all the bitterness that strife creates, To shelter him from danger and from sin. The fairest crowns of glory that we win Become but ashes in a withered hand Compared with greetings of our kith and kin Who always seem to know and understand The longing of the lives that they with us have planned.
The world is pitiless, but home, sweet home, Is laden with the treasures of the soul. If fickle fortune tempt our feet to roam, When we have won the glory of her goal, We turn again with feelings that control The worldly wisdom that is rich and rare; And splendors that extend from pole to pole Have lost the native charms that can compare With those delightful scenes that distance makes more fair.
We see again the meadows and the lake, The hills and valleys of the golden west. The crags and cliffs that eaglets will forsake To give their growing wings their maiden test. The groves that childhood sought for shade and rest When weariness had forced it to retreat. The blackbird's willows and the robin's nest Combine to fashion pinions for the feet That fancy speeds along to where all highways meet.
That place is home—not build of bricks and stones, But fashioned in the regions of the skies Where sin is not and sorrow never groans, The habitation of the good and wise. The home was founded there and in disguise It has descended to a mundane base; But in a future day it is to rise And meet the God of glory face to face, To grant eternal bliss and claim its rightful place.
Tennyson, the Boy and the Match This incident from the pen of Annie Pike Greenwood, will prove of interest to our readers; it is the same class of material that has made the autobiography-of Edward Bok so interesting. Sagebrush grows almost up to the door of our high school building, and where there is no sagebrush, it is black sand. In this building every day I teach the Class in Perfect Enjoyment. On the daily program it is listed as "Literature," but my fifteen pupils and I know better. We read and discuss for an enchanted period, ignoring the fact that we are running over into the penmanship time, and when the instructor of that course appears suggestively in the doorway, the Class in Perfect Enjoyment unitedly and emphatically shooes him away with gestures of dismissal. In consequence of this, I fear that the class will become literary critics who will be forced to use the typewriter in order to make themselves decipherable. One day last week while we were studying Tennyson, Verna raised her hand, and announced, "There is a man in Rupert who has seen Tennyson." Her words made something of a stir in the class. We are prone to think of our super-men as dead beyond living remembrance TENNYSON, THE BOY, AND THE MATCH  663  Rupert is five miles from our schoolhouse. I saw the expression of incredulity on the faces before me. How could any citizen in the little, new, western, progressive town ever have touched such old-world greatness? If such man did exist, he must be doddering on the edge of the grave. Then I drew their attention to the date of Tennyson's death. And assured them that when I made a trip to Rupert I would seek the man in question. Today I called on the Reverend B. C. d'Easum, the man who saw Tennyson. He is the minister of the Episcopal church, at Rupert, a charming and cultured man, with a wife who is his counterpart. He smiled when I told him what I had come for. "It is true, but the incident is quite trivial. It was at the time that Tennyson was making his home on the Isle of Wight. My father was a curate there, and he had a collection of brass plates which they used to rub on the tombstones of the Crusaders to get impressions. Tennyson was interested in these plates. "One day the news was revealed to me that the great man was to dine with my father. I was just a little boy, and, of course, was not allowed at the table. But I was determined to catch a glimpse of the writer whom I admired so much. "After dinner, Tennyson and my father walked in the garden, and I went darting from one hiding place behind a shrub to another hiding place behind another shrub, my boyish eyes photographing the handsome figure in its broad hat with flowing hair and picturesque beard. "Suddenly I was galvanized by his voice unmistakably addressing me, hidden as I thought I was. 'Boy, come here!' "I went at once to him with trepidation and a sense of elevated expectancy. I would not have been surprised to have heard him begin some recitative from 'The Idylls of the King,' or 'Maud,' or at very least, 'Break, Break, Break.' "There was an instant of solemnity, followed by the words. 'Boy, go to the house and get me a match!' "T got the match and brought it back to him. That was all. So you see it doesn't amount to anything." Mr. d'Easum smiled, deprecatingly. "I disagree with you," I said, "it transforms Tennyson from a mythological hero to a human entity." "Tt does serve to link the present with the past,' he conceded. Next Monday I shall go to school, and with the aid of a boy and a match I shall be able to make an unforgettable picture of Tennyson for the Class of Perfect Enjoyment. We shall see him strolling through the curate's garden in his broad-brimmed hat, hair flowing, picturesque beard,—and, yes, I suppose there must be a little urchin darting from shrub to shrub and peering out admiring at the heroic figure.  Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) THE RULERS OF ISRAEL THE MOSAIC DISPENSATION (continued.) A. The Judges. Israel, or the People of God, lived under three types of rulership. After the death of Moses, the prophet, the seer, the revelator and the lawgiver, Israel was led by Judges of which there were seventeen. The first Judge was Joshua, the leader; the last Samuel, the prophet. The government under the Judges covered a period of about 400 years. The division of the conquered country among the twelve tribes tended to lack a common interest, which made national! Strength something that was one of the hopes of Israel. In their march of conquest they had developed a thirst for power, sufficient, at least, to make them safe among nations who hated them, but feared "the God of Israel."" They were quick to forget that their source of safety was the Lord. Then some of the Judges showed the weakness of unwise indulgence of their own children and thereby invited iniquity. Eli, once a valiant leader. Failed to demand of his sons standards of life fit for official positions. See I Sam. 2:24-31. The last Judge of Israel tolerated in office sons whose conduct contributed to the decision of the people to call for a change in governmental affairs. (See I Sam. 8:1-8.) B. The Kings. During the Mosaic dispensation. The Covenant People had three kings who ruled over all Israel. Then came the separation of the tribes, about 950 B. C. One division, composed of ten full tribes and part of another tribe set up a kingdom known as the Kingdom of Israel, with the City of Shechem, in Samaria, as their capital. This kingdom was ruled by twenty-one kings, and it lasted two hundred and thirty years. It was broken up by the Assyrians who carried the ten tribes off as captives of war and scattered them, Jest they should re-unite and make trouble for the Assyrian government. It is said that 30,000 were thus disposed of. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 665 The other division known as the Kingdom of Judah, made up of the tribe of Judah and part of the tribe of Benjamin, held Jerusalem as their capitol. The Kingdom of Judah held place as a recognized government for about 365 years, during which time twenty-two kings ruled, when it was broken up by the Babylonians who plundered Jerusalem, destroyed the temple and the royal palace and carried the people into captivity. C. Various Governors. After the Babylonian captivity Judah never came into political prominence; its nationality was broken. The people were ruled by some foreign power or were under the protectorate of some strong nation. During this period, independence was unknown to the people of God. They had no real freedom of nationality. Their military career was one, first of conquest, and then of captivity. They were looking for a deliverer of the war type and not for the Prince of Peace. D. The Three Kings of all Israel. 1. Saul. (a) His calling. "Tsrael would have a King." Samuel complains about their ungratefulness, and the Lord advised and warned against it. See I Sam. 8:4-22. The people, by putting their wish against God's wisdom, broke the first of the ten. Commandments. The Lord chose them a king after their own heart. Saul was pointed out by the Lord; (See I Sam. 9:17.) He was annointed by Samuel; (See I Sam. 10:1), he was "given a new heart"; (See Sam. 10:5-9), he was accepted by the people. (I Sam. 19:25.) (b) His Reign. Saul was a man of orders rather than one of obedience. (See I Sam. 15:22-26.) (c) Lessons from his Life. From his life may be learned many lessons, prominent among which are: 1. That obedience is the most acceptable offering man can bring before God. (See I Sam. 15:22), 2. That the Spirit of the Lord brings to the front our best possibilities. With the Spirit of the Lord, Saul was a prophet; without it, he was a madman, a murderer at heart. 3. That good music is attractive to the Spirit of the Lord. (See I Sam. 16:23.) 2. David. (a) His Calling: The Lord had promised Samuel that he would select for a king a man after his own heart. Samuel anointed David King 666 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of Israel under the direction of the Lord who sought a man after his own heart. (b) His Theological Contributions. 1. An unbounded loyalty to the Lord's annointed. (See I Sam. 24:4-6.) 2. An undying trust in God, "Thou will not leave my soul in hell." (See Ps. 16:10.) 3. His psalm—Sermons. "The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God." (See Ps. 14:1.) 3. Solomon. 1. Successful seeker for wisdom. 2. An unsuccessful seeker of happiness. (See Ecclesiastes.) This short book is an epitome of Solomon's life; it may be read with profit once a year. 3. A philosopher. The proverbs of Solomon are household words and the guide of statesmen. 4. A poet of lasting fame. (See the Songs of Solomon.) Questions and Problems 1. Name the three classes of rulers that followed Moses during the dispensation. 2. Give the number of judges and of kings that ruled during the dispensation. 3. What were the causes that led to the clamor for'a king? 4. Give in brief the Lord's warning concerning the Israelites having a king, 5. Tell of Saul's getting a new heart. 6. In the light of Sam. 16:22 discuss the salvation value of good music. 7. What is the most valuable lesson to be learned from the life of Saul? 8. What, from your point of view, were the characteristics of David when he was annointed king that made him a man after God's own heart? 9. Speak of David's loyalty to the Lord's annointed and his undying faith in the Lord. 10. Quote three theologically helpful memory gems from the Psalms of David. 11. Prove Solomon's success in his humble and prayerful search for wisdom. 12. According to the words of Solomon-as recorded in Ecclesiastes what are the two worth while things to do? 13. Quote three of what you consider to be the most helpful proverbs of Solomon. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 667 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in February) TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY Home Talk on Washington and Lincoln "Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime; And departing, leave behind us, Footprints on the sands of time." —Longfellow. 1. The traits of character which made these men great: Honesty. Courage (moral and physical.) Reliability. Sense of justice. Faith in God. Desire to serve mankind. Sympathy for oppressed, etc. 2. Suggested stories to tell to illustrate these traits of character. Gordy's American Leaders and Heroes contains many stories. Also any biography of Washington or Lincoln contains stories which illustrate the fine qualities of these men. The Perfect Tribute, gives an idea of Lincoln's character.. 5 3. Teacher select two stories to tell in homes she visits. (One about Washington, one about Lincoln.) 4. Suggest time for discussion of these men. (Dinner hour, bed time, home evening.) 5. The suggestion of the Church regarding these great men. That they were divinely called and inspired to do their work, OAROOAW > 668 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) MARK TWAIN It is greatly to be doubted if the reputation of any other American author has grown as rapidly in the past decade and a half, as has the reputation of Samuel L. Clemens, who wrote under the nom de plume of Mark Twain. A short time ago a young preacher, the Reverend Dr. Charles F. Aked, who lectured under the auspicious of the Extension Division of the University of Utah, treated Mark Twain as a philosopher and moralist. This was something new. We are all used to thinking of him as a humorist, as one who has unmasked our shams and who has written very delightful and illuminating books of travel, but we had not thought of him seriously as a moralist—still Dr. Aked appears to have made his point. He said in his lecture, "there is enough in the Gospel of Mark Twain to make good men and women out of all of us." Discussing the maxims in the Calendar of Pudd'nhead Wilson, Dr. Aked drew attention to such statements as, "a man may have no bad habits and yet be worthless." "Man is the only animal that blushes or needs to," the preacher suggested that this should include women also. Again quoting Wilson, "When in doubt tell the truth."
It is now lacking little of a century since Samuel Langhorne Clemens first saw the light of day, in the village of Florida, in the State of Missouri, on Nov. 30, 1835—at the time when Missouri was at the very frontier of our civilization and its boundary had not been defined: St. Louis was at that time a city of some 12,000 people, while Chicago was not yet incorporated and had a population of something over 4000 inhabitants. His education was obtained in the village school of Hannibal. In his case, as well as that of Benjamin Franklin, it was supplemented by training in a printing office, which he entered at 13 years of age, where he learned the rudiments much better than many boys learned them in school, for when typesetting he learned to spell, punctuate and look after some other details necessary for a writer to know. His choice of occupation was fortunate, for later he had enough skill to be classed as a journeyman printer. This meant that he could go anywhere he would and be sure of picking up work, consequently it is not surprising at all that we learn that he plied his trade in St. Louis, Cincinnati, Philadelphia, and New York and in all probability many other places. By 1851 he had wandered about enough to grow tired, so he took up with another vocation, equally as adventurous, he became a pilot. And to this new adventure we owe the delightful book, A Mississippi Pilot.
We next find him acting as a private secretary to his brother who had obtained the appointment of secretary of the Territory of Nevada. Going into Nevada in those days meant going into mining. Clemens tried mining but met with little success, he did not discover a pile of gold, but he did obtain the material for Roughing It. It was while he was living in Nevada that Mr. C. C. Goodwin, many years editor of the Salt Lake Tribune, became acquainted with him, later including a sketch of him in his book As I Remember Them. He now turned to printing and was for a short time city editor for the Virginia City Enterprise, where he began to write humorous articles and to sign them "Mark Twain" reminiscent of his pilot days, when he heard the call from the man who was taking soundings from the deck of the Mississippi River Boat.
In 1865 we find Mr. Clemens in San Francisco engaging in journalism and mining operations. From here he went to Hawaii, where he collected the material that has helped to make Hawaii famous. On his return from the islands, he delivered lectures in California, these were later published in the volume called The Jumping Frog and Other Sketches, published in 1869. The Jumping Frog is one of the best short stories known to our literature. The incident is not original with Clemens, but its atmosphere and setting are. Now he took his famous voyage through the Mediterranean and traveled in adjoining countries. The result of this trip was the well known volume Innocence Abroad, published in 1869. If he did not awake one morning to find himself great, he certainly did discover that his fame had spread far and wide, 125,000 copies were sold in three years. And the book is still selling, every generation loves it and the traveler in Europe almost invariably reads it some time or other. Nothing is more common in the experience of English speaking travelers than to hear some one quote Mark Twain. As long as Americans remain American in their tastes and in their feelings, and Europe treasures her historic and art shrines, Mark Twain's books will endure. Innocence Abroad was followed by A Tramp Abroad, which is equally popular.
Somebody has said, "if ever, any writer understood the boy nature from A to izzard, the name of that writer is Mark Twain." He knew what boys think, and what they feel and what they like to do, consequently the characters of Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn are classics in American Literature. American writers have been more successful in the characterization of boys than have the writers of other nations, as a result we might search in vain throughout the literature of the World to find two writers who portray boy life for us as well as Mark Twain and Booth Tarkington have done.
In his Yankee in King Arthur's Court, he has turned chivalry inside out and endeavored to show us that if the aristocrats enjoyed polished manners in the days of chivalry, those of other groups lived very miserable lives, their rights and comforts being virtually ignored.
Clemens suffered many domestic disappointments, his wife's death being one of the keenest. The tragic death of his daughter Jean resulted in one of the finest pieces of work that ever came from his pen. It proved that the man who has given us so many things to laugh about could voice the very deepest pathos. Before his death he gave us a very beautiful and a very serious piece of work in Joan of Arc. He said it was his best piece of work. His Autobiography was published after his death by Harpers', the publishing house which put out so many splendid editions of his works.
Mark Twain was a good business man; while he suffered one financial collapse, he entirely recuperated financially before his death. Harper's, his publishers, were once asked how much they paid Mark Twain for his work, while refusing to be specific, they admitted that they paid him more per word than any other author who had ever written for them. His summer home was at Hartford Connecticut, where Charles Dudley Warner and Harriet Beecher Stowe resided. His death occurred April 21st, 1910, at Redding, Connecticut
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give an example of Mark Twain's skill in treating boy life.
2. Select some passages from Innocence Abroad or A Tramp Abroad that will illustrate his ability to write travel articles.
3. Have the members of the class repeat the most humorous thing they know of, attributed to Mark Twain.
4. See if you can discover with Mr. Aked some wisdom maxims in Mark Twain.
5. Have some one tell the story of the Jumping Frog, and see if you can discover why it has been called one of the best short stories in American Literature.
6. If you can obtain Mr. C. C. Goodwin's book, As I Remember Them, it might be well to read to the class what he says about Mark Twain.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February)
PHYSICAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
The problems of childhood that will be studied in this department will be treated under four headings. These four classifications of child problems, (1) physical, (2) mental, (3) emotional, and (4) social, have been made, in the text that will be followed. The author, Dr. Ira S. Wile, points out that such a classification is an arbitrary one and is used to simplify the presentation of the material. An abnormality in any phase of an individual's make-up interacts on his whole personality. A study, therefore, of the problems in these four groups should not be considered as isolated phenomena but their relation to one another should constantly be kept in mind.
The first and most important phase of child development is the physical. An individual's career is controlled to a great extent by his degree of physical well-being. A child, below par physically, may be unable to attend school or may be so easily fatigued that his mental processes are dulled and his training is therefore limited. In adult life, the same defect that interfered with the education of the child, may be the cause of economic failure. Malnutrition, or broken arches, or a local infection, etc., may spell the difference between normal, healthy, happy childhood and lethargy, school failure, and unhappiness. The same defects if uncorrected will perhaps keep the individual in the group of social failures, barring him from the satisfaction of attaining economic independence, and its accompanying successes in adult life.
Every person, however, who has some physical defect or handicap is not doomed to economic and social failure. Individuals do not respond in the same manner to any set of experiences. Ill-health or the loss of sight, or of a limb, affect individuals differently. It is possible for some persons to transcend their physical handicaps in a magnificent manner, succeeding at undertakings that appear beyond their power. These unusual successes are obviously the result of some special adjustment that the person is able to make to the experiences of losing some power and of being different from the rest of the world.
The adjustment to a physical defect or to any abnormality presents an important psychological mechanism. One of the fundamental desires of every individual is to feel equal to his fellows. It is a phase of the "ego-urge" to wish to appear to advantage to our neighbors and friends. If a person feels himself different, or inadequate, or handicapped, he naturally has a sense of inferiority. An individual's conscious self shrinks from the idea that he is different or inferior, so the unconscious self assists him to see himself in a better light. His unconscious self finds some way to repay him for his deficiency. This unconscious process is known as "compensation." This "compensation" may take a form of behavior that will be beneficial to the individual, but it also frequently happens that "compensatory" behavior is most unwholesome.
The reference to a crippled child in the text offers an example of this process. The author suggests that a child with a crippled arm makes some adjustment to his handicap. He unquestionably feels his difference and he may remain quiet and aloof at school and on the playground, finding an outlet for expression in some other way. He may spend much time day-dreaming and indulging in phantasies (perhaps picturing himself a hero in many perilous situations) to compensate for his infirmity in reality. Indulgence in excessive day-dreaming in the adolescent is considered a very unwholesome mental habit as it keeps the individual from developing the independent mental processes of maturity.
The child with a handicap may react in an entirely different way to his experience. His unpleasant feeling of inferiority may unconsciously create a desire to gain attention or be superior in some manner. If this desire leads to some earnest effort it may result in a real accomplishment. But, frequently, the unconscious desire to gain attention leads the individual into difficulty. He may become belligerent and unruly, or he may exploit his handicap to gain sympathy and to escape responsibilities he should be learning to face.
It is not only the cripple and the blind that have a special adjustment to make to physical handicaps. These, because of their seriousness present outstanding problems, but even minor physical handicaps, have an effect on behavior. Deafness, nervousness, skin eruptions, heart disease and the whole category of defects present not only physical problems to be treated, but often affect the emotional and mental life of the individual. A child may learn that illness gains for him attentions that are pleasing and satisfying, and his suggestibility may keep him in a state of near invalidism. Illness at times is a tool used to secure attention and to gain desired ends. Intelligent treatment of childhood ills is important to prevent later behavior problems. Much petting and pampering at times of illness has no beneficial medical effect, and frequently is the cause of later behavior problems. Just as it is not wise to place a premium on crying in infancy it is unwise to make an experience of invalidism so satisfying to the emotions and the ego that the child later tries to regain these satisfactions by unconsciously feigning illness.
The conservation of the health of childhood is a task that is enlisting the attention of the medical profession, the educators, and the social workers. Recent studies of the physical health of school children, of the men in service during the world war, and of life insurance agencies, disclose that a large proportion of the population are suffering some handicaps. The study of 20,000,000 school children of the United States, shows that 75% possess some outstanding physical defect. The table is printed herewith:
Mental defects....................... 1% Tuberculosis......................... 5% Defective hearing.................... 5% Defective sight.................... 25% Diseased tonsils or adenoids....... 15-25% Deformed feet, spine, or joints.... 10-20% Defective teeth................... 50-75% Malnutrition..................... 15-25%
It is not possible to discuss the symptoms and discovery and treatment of diseases of childhood at this point. Subsequent lessons will point out some particular diseases and their implications. The chart, however, should bring parents to a realization that a majority of children have defects that can be remedied—defects that are frustrating the development, the hopes, the happiness, and success of the individual. The defect, whether it is defective teeth or an impairment of vision, should not be considered a single, minor defect. It is necessary to be aware of the future dangers of the effect of a handicap on the whole developing personality of the child. Health, as the author points out, is "the quality of life that renders the individual fit to live most and serve best." By providing the medical attention and home hygiene that insures a higher standard of health, the contribution to the growing generation will be not only health, but a richer and fuller life.
Reference: Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile, Physical Problems, pages 15-21.
Questions and Problems
1. In what way does poor health affect school work? Economic success?
2. Why do some persons with handicaps succeed?
3. What is meant by "compensation?"
4. Why is it necessary for an individual to make an adjustment to a handicap?
5. Why is it unwise to pamper a sick child?
6. Account for high percent of malnutrition on the chart; for defective teeth; for defective sight.
7. How recently and thoroughly were the school children examined in your community? The pre-school children?
$7,500 for $1.00 Travel and Pedestrian Insurance NO PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Offer Is Open to Everyone between the age of 15 and 70 New or old subscriber of the Deseret News may obtain a policy by paying a registration fee of $1.00
Send for an application blank today DESERET NEWS Salt Lake City, Utah. Insure today—tomorrow may be too late.
The Reliable Mail Order House 1069 E. 21st SOUTH
Price List for Fall and Winter 1925-26 WE HAVE NO AGENTS, BUY DIRECT AND SAVE FROM 25% TO 30%
No. 51 L. D. S. Garments Fine Rib only in L. D. S. New Style.......... $1.25
Any of the following numbers can be made up in EITHER NEW or OLD STYLE L. D. S. GARMENT or MEN'S or LADIES' Union Suits.
No. 50 Open Weave No. 58 Bleached No. 68 Fine Wool $1.25 $1.75 $3.25
No. 52 Fine Rib No. 60 Bleached No. 70 ½ Wool $1.50 $2.25 $5.50
No. 54 Bleached Cotton No. 64 Lisle No. 72 ? Wool $1.75 $2.25 $5.50
No. 56 Unbleached No. 66 Merc. No. 74 Silk and Wool $1.75 $2.75 $7.00
For MEN'S Union Suits ONLY No. 92 All Worsted Wool Grey $ 9.50 No. 96 All Worsted Wool Black 9.50
All Wool Overcoats 18.50 All Wool Men's Shirts 5.75
If you are not perfectly satisfied with any of our goods, we refund the money
WRITE FOR SAMPLES
Why Pay More For Ladies' Silk Hose When You Can Get A Pure Silk Hose in Any Shade for $1.00
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
All Wool Blankets 5 lb. Double 66-80 6.25 All Wool Men's Sweater Coats 8.50
Trade With Your Friends
Our Slogan: Every Customer a Friend
Our specialty is furnishing homes for young people, and we have done it so well, during the past 44 years, they have become strong boosters and customers for life. Let us help you. Our prices are guaranteed to be as low as the lowest, quality considered. We are strong for quality. Easy payments by the week or month. Everything for the Home.
Modern Furniture Co. E. E. Jenkins, Pres.; J. B. Sharp, Vice-Pres.; C. E. Davey, Mgr., Secy. And Treas.
Vanity Hosiery Shop 33 EAST BROADWAY
"A Store Dealing in Quality" Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair.........................$1.95 Box of Three Pairs..............$5.50
Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair........................$1.50 Box of Three Pairs..............$4.25
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair........................$1.50 Box of Three Pairs..............$4.25
Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, Chiffon. All Colors Per Pair........................$1.00 Box of Three Pairs..............$2.85
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
234-236 So. State St. Salt Lake
Snowcroft Bluepine Extracts Demanded by all Good cooks because of its purity, full strength and wonderful rich flavor.
Full o' Flavor!
Approved and used for general household and sacred purposes. When you ask your Grocer for Blue Pine Food Products you are demanding the best.
Also Blue Pine Spices—Vinegar—Vacuum Packed Shelled Walnuts
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

